ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u1	Madam President. Thank you very much for the contribution of the members of the First Chamber in the first term. I was very charmed and also inspired by the contributions. I think this debate is taking place at a very important time. On 1 January, the Netherlands took over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Let me immediately drop the door in the house: we do this not at the easiest moment, but full of freshness and conviction. Both outside the borders of the European Union and within the European Union, it is very turbulent, whether it is the migration crisis of an unprecedented scale, which presents us with enormous challenges. I shall of course return to the specific questions on this subject, whether it is the rule of law, which is under pressure in parts of the European Union, or the real possibility that, for the first time in history, a Member State will turn its back on European cooperation, or many of you have called it the geopolitical challenge at our eastern border, where Putin is shining from a lost past and Russia is destabilising parts of Ukraine, or because of the enormous crisis and human suffering in Syria, the situation in Libya and the destabilising effects and terrorist threats it poses, including for Europe. One thing is beyond me. Better and closer cooperation is essential for stability beyond our borders, for rigour at our borders and for security within our borders. That's important to say. I know that there are also great differences in this Chamber as to what form of European integration should be. I'll be right back on that. It is clear to me that these things need stability beyond our borders, security within our borders and closer cooperation in Europe. I have great confidence in the strength and will of Europeans to meet these challenges. It is important not to let us tell you that the downfall is near. I shall explain this in such a way that if we only ward off foreigners, close borders and withdraw from Europe and the world, the sun will always shine. With or without the European Union, we are in one boat together in Europe. You can't say, well, it's just your part that sinks. It is precisely this attitude that we have put behind us after the horrors of the two world wars. We will have to continue to invest in each other and in our cooperation every day. The European Union has faced a great deal of hot fire in its existence. Over and over again, we've managed to come out stronger. We find solutions, work on them with conviction or, as Mr Knapen called it, inspiration. I am a realist and therefore have great confidence in the human strength, strength and willpower of Europeans to face and overcome today's challenges. In the Union, it is about security within and outside our borders, about prosperity, but also about our values. You know what the cabinet's like in there. Where the European Union can contribute to this, European solutions must be sought. What European must do. Whatever national is possible, we keep it there. Recently, I was at a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the 'old six', the Member States that set up the Union. We were sitting there with his sixes. By the way, it's great to do that with his sixes, I have to tell you that. We were just talking about the 28. That sometimes has some drawbacks, because before you get to it, there have sometimes been 27 others. Especially when you're president, you're not the first. But then we were just sitting there with his sixes. Then you can talk quietly for a moment.That was really necessary at a small table. That gave me an impression of what it must have been like before. Of course, I only know that from photographs. We did speak English, by the way. It was good to consider with those six where we stand with the Union and what we have to do and to see how this can be done effectively, now with 28 Member States. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. Before going into the specific issues of pensions and Ukraine and the like, I would like to say something very essential. The European Union must now prove itself in bad weather. We're not used to that. Of course, there have been all kinds of crises and crises and it has been very complicated to build European integration. For some it has gone too far, for some it has not gone far enough. However, in recent years we have worked with a certain degree of luxury in the European Union. In fact, you can see that the Union must function at a time when there are tectonic changes. I refer to the financial and economic crisis, which was certainly not just a European one. It was a world crisis, which took a specific form because of the design and also the shortcomings of European Monetary Union. I refer to the tectonic changes in world power relations, which have also increased the risks for Europe. In addition, there is the great instability in the ring around Europe, which has put us in a kind of bad weather situation. The old model of European integration, namely the European Union, as a kind of legislative machine that had to move forward through a complex interplay of institutions, is now being thoroughly tested. That's point one. I mentioned that at the meeting of the old six. With the old six you notice that there is a certain nostalgia to the past. I don't have one. The Netherlands has not taken that position there either. That is the first point of a general nature: are we sufficiently ready to allow the European Union to function in bad weather? We have to be, given the risks I just mentioned. This represents a huge challenge for the Presidency. It is no longer a matter of waiting for a proposal from the European Union, looking at it calmly and then talking to everyone, after which a decision is taken in the Council, involving Parliament. This is all going to happen, but of course we are dealing with very different problems, which you have rightly asked a large number of questions about. The second general point I would like to mention is that the problems to which I have just referred are problems which affect the sovereignty of countries much more deeply. Hence the third phenomenon, which I find interesting and not so negative: that the European Union is becoming more and more political. We are in bad weather, the legislative machinery does not matter, it is a question of sovereignty and so the political debates in and between countries have become much brighter. That is why we are now discussing a political Commission. That is why the differences of opinion, including in the Netherlands, are considerably greater when it comes to the degree of integration and the type of model we want to have. I would like to avoid two major dangers. That's complicated, because it means looking to the future with an open sight. Firstly, that is the national reflex. Then you hear that it is all wrong in Europe and that there is so much bureaucracy. I even heard people today say that the European Union is about as bad as what we used to have in the Warsaw Pact. Of course, that is absurd, but that national reflex is a great risk if you look at the three problems I have just mentioned: terrorism, refugees and the economic crisis. At least you will have to have forms of integrated cooperation. I will come back to the question of how far that should go. Secondly, that is the federal dream and the idea of the past: we are going to build the old federation and that Commission, that Council and that Parliament are working so terribly well that we are going to go ahead with it and complete it through a treaty change and all kinds of other things. The government is sometimes accused of having no vision if it does not choose between them. No, we don't choose that. You should actually say that we are going to a world, a Europe 3.0 if you like, in which it is about constructive engineering, to put it in good Dutch. This does not mean that you are going to go blind with just the pragmatism, but we will really have to provide answers to the citizens of this country who are concerned about the problems of asylum seekers. Or about terror. We can't wait for that. We need to work with the Belgians and the French. We really can't do that on our own, that really doesn't stick at the border. People want answers to that now. This also means that the Presidency focuses on this in particular. It does not mean that the Presidency has no vision or does not think about it. Because we're in bad weather and because it's about politics, it's not bad at all. At the same time, as matters of direct sovereignty are at stake, we will increasingly have to explain, explain and make more transparent choices in this debate in the First Chamber, but also in the European Parliament. This is also part of the European Presidency's priority. A second element of a general sentence that I also discussed in Rome is not so new. It's really different when you go from 6 to 28 countries. Many people say immediately: terrible, bureaucracy, many countries, it takes a long time. Oh, yeah. I also oppose people who keep saying: now you have another Euro Summit, what have you achieved? Of course, we have to be reckoned with the results. I believe that yesterday in the migration crisis there was at least a game changer; I shall come back to that. It's different when you have to come to an agreement with 28 at a summit. That's negative, and that's positive. It's negative because they're natural countries with different identities and histories. Let it remain that way, but in that sense I understand the national reflex. As far as I am concerned, this national reflex is not the return to some sort of fantasy of Kleinstaaterei or of 'we all know it better than other countries'. No, it is the feeling of many of our citizens that we no longer have any control over it, that we no longer have any control over it. That feeling must, of course, be recognised. That is why I am not in favour of suddenly embracing the old federal dreams that some of the six still have in this political environment, this internationally complex environment, in a European Union 3.0. They really see that as the only solution for the future. However, you will have to make progress in a number of areas. When it comes to the legislative programme, that better regulation programme, we say: let us make sure that there are far fewer proposals from the Commission. That doesn't have much to do with deregulation. It is not a neoliberal concept for Europe. We say this because we know that if you have more than 700 MEPs and a lot of Commissioners, there will be a logic that soon leads to a lot of bureaucracy that people have nothing to do with. Then it is very good that there are so few legislative proposals. It is, of course, about the concerns of our citizens that you should look carefully at the three things I have just mentioned and what today's debate has actually been about, and how to achieve further European forms of cooperation. Everyone has said it today, whatever position they take in the debate: you cannot have that great economic good of free movement and the great social good of free movement if you do not effectively control the external borders at the same time. That's a logical summit at work you're doing. Whether you want to call it federalisation or not, it means that you are jointly taking further decisions towards Frontex or a European Border and Coast Guard, which are indeed an element of Europeanisation and integration. There's nothing against that either, because otherwise you can't work and ask people what you're doing. I will come back to the specific questions on European Monetary Union later, but you can see that there are differences of opinion on how this structure should be put together. There is a school that says that you cannot have monetary union without having a tax system or a European Minister of Finance. When it comes to it, at least there is a debate about it, regardless of whether you are Keynesian or monetaryist. For example, the Netherlands has a somewhat more conservative view of this than those in southern Europe who want to give it a huge federal boost. You must look at it more pragmatically in that sense, but that is not without vision. It has to do with the nature of Europe's problem at the moment. You can be optimistic or pessimistic about that. I agree with the Court's analysis that there are serious concerns. You just have to be president to know that. There are countries that are doing well economically and countries that are doing less economically. With regard to migration policy, there are countries that are destination countries, countries that let everyone through and countries that have very specific problems, such as Greece. It is then a bit more complicated to arrive at a common position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u2	At the risk of being a little premature, I'd like to ask a question. The Minister has said that he will come back on a number of issues. I wouldn't let it go if he didn't happen to come back to this. The Minister just indicated that the Netherlands is somewhat more reluctant in the question of whether economic and monetary union should also be followed by fiscal union and a European Minister for Finance. Is he gonna come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u3	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u4	It is interesting to hear about the situation between eurogroup president Dijsselbloem, who, as president, has contributed to the report, and the Dutch Minister for Finance Dijsselbloem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u5	I'd love to get back to you on that, Mr. Chairman. Members have all started with a piece of vision and have all said that the government does not want a vision. That's incorrect. The government wants to have a vision, but not a traditional one, and looks closely at the problems of today, the bad weather, the politicisation and another Commission. I believe that the Labour Party has also asked about the new way in which the Commission operates. I won't hide the fact that we're in bad weather when it comes to trust. I would like to conclude my general point, because I understand that you are not waiting for me to explain my view until 9 p.m. or 10 p.m. tonight, but that you also want your questions answered. It is perhaps a good thing to say that the 28 together, because of a number of conflicts of interest that could exist objectively, sometimes have a great deal of difficulty in reaching agreement. I wouldn't be telling the truth if I were you. In my view, this is simply one of the problems facing us as President. Mr Knapen has rightly said that the whole tradition in Eastern Europe, some countries don't even want to be called Eastern European, but Central Europe, of course, has to do with the specific history under the Warsaw Pact. They have actually become ethnically homogeneous states after the First World War. They don't want to exchange Moscow for Brussels. Of course, there are sentiments like that. Then you're in a completely different discussion when you talk about asylum and migration. You can say: you see, Europe is not even going to be able to do it again. You can say, you see, they don't have to work together, because that's all too complicated. Everyone knows, however, that this has to be "in the end." I'm not going to tell you today that Vice-President Timmermans is not right. He was right to point out the great concerns about trust between and within countries about where to go with Europe. That's what I've seen here today. I would point out that, given the really changing circumstances, we should not fall into the trap either. I'm not saying that because I have to say that as chairman. I say this because solutions have always been sought in the euro crisis, whether you consider the final decision-making to be justified or not. Maybe that should go further, maybe it didn't happen fairly, but it did. The same applies to sanctions against Russia. I believe that since last night it has been at least the beginning of what I would like to call a game changer in the relationship with Turkey. We are not there yet, but it is important to name it today. At the end of the preparatory part on answering the specific questions, I would like to say the following. We have lost Mom Wellenstein, a great man when it comes to European integration; that will recognise friend and enemy. He put it quite well: it is craft work with small, practical steps. That may not sound so sexy, but of course that's what it's all about. That's how we do it in the country sometimes. It is ideologically coloured and there are differences of opinion, but that is also the work of the European Union. My view of that is quite realistic. I'm looking at the situation as it is now. I see that the national reflex and the idea that we can build on the existing model are not working. This means that you have to be able and dare to change things on a number of points. The euro crisis and migration have been mentioned. Let me give you an example. Maybe you can't call it revolutionary and maybe you can say it's far too late, but such a point as a European border and coastguard was actually impossible. You could say it's way too late. I think it is too late, but it is a bit easy to leave it at that. Now we say it's too late and we don't? Or do we say, yes, indeed, I'm glad you called it? This has already been requested in the European Parliament. It was said then that it could not, that it was a European dream and that we should not do it. So you sometimes have to look a little pragmatically at what is needed and what is needed less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u6	Will the Minister come back to what I started with? I'm referring to the border guard issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u7	Yes. I would like to make two general comments. Next, I would like to say something about economic governance, migration, border guard plans, the United Kingdom, Ukraine, climate policy, enlargement, the rule of law and transparency. I have had questions about these subjects. I would like to comment briefly on the general setting in which I would like to see this debate, also in view of the input. In that context, it has been said that if we do not go further about the same model, do we have any ideas in the Netherlands? Mr Knapen referred to the idea of a multi-speed Europe. I found the recent report of the AIV, also referred to by the PvdA and the VVD, interesting. Uniform integration, both in terms of content and form, has not been achieved with a union of 28 countries. Flexible forms of cooperation not only remain a reality, but also provide the necessary institutional elasticity; look at EMU, Schengen and opt-outs in the field of JHA, as for Denmark. For some countries it is more "pick and choose," in the sense of: we like to participate in it and not in it. You can see that in the UK. That is why it is important that there should be a referendum there to make that choice clear: does the United Kingdom want to remain in a reformed Union? I don't think that differentiation in itself is negative. Cooperation in leading groups has sometimes worked as a driving force in the past; think of Schengen and in fact the euro. As such, leading groups have been instrumental in further deepening European cooperation. The Benelux is perhaps the best example of this. It is now a little less important, but that is what we have started, and it is still a precursor, for example, to the recognition of diplomas and cooperation in the field of energy. If we have to wait for 28 countries, it will take a bit longer. That doesn't mean there's nothing else you can do. The model is not a Brussels bureaucracy or a national reflex. There are all kinds of intermediate forms. So I think that's a good thing. However, we must always ensure that this leads to a Union that retains sufficient flexibility, with possible rings of integration. I would like to add a little more flexibility to that. If you do that, you should stick to two things: first of all, transparency - people need to know who is doing what and how; call that, as far as I am concerned, a democracy - and secondly, inclusiveness. If you want to join us, you're welcome to join us. So you shouldn't be excluded. That's how I look at the AIV report. You have to take each other's concerns seriously, too. In that sense, I think that the United Kingdom has a few real points; I say this to those who perhaps think a little less federally or who think less in great European solutions. We agree on a large number of these points. This concerns the internal market, the better functioning of the economy and the role of national parliaments to deepen democracy, so that it does not go too far and so that there is a shared sovereignty. So we agree. I can also imagine that it is said that the United Kingdom wants to have something to do with what is happening in the euro group. The opposite cannot, of course, be the case either. It cannot be that we are going to do certain things with the euro group and that London is there in the City and then thinks that it can be determined. That is what the fight is about, of course, in the referendum and in the negotiations. No one accepts a veto on cooperation from other countries, but we are in a single internal market. That's where I think we should go. The cabinet insists that the preference continues to be for inclusiveness and cooperation of the 28 countries. Of course, the Community method, as it is called, remains quite important. I say immediately that this term is a loaded term for those who have seen the campaign on the referendum. However, you are not going to throw that method away. It is good that there is a Commission that makes proposals. I say to some critics that these proposals are not being forced on anyone at all. They come into discussion here, in the House of Representatives, through the Council and through the European Parliament, but I am in favour of that flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u8	May I interrupt this part of the Minister's speech? Would it not be a very simple, very workable and very clear thought for the citizen that the Netherlands should always be in that leading group? The Minister speaks with warm words about "the six." That's nostalgia. In view of the geopolitical, economic and political situation, I believe that the Netherlands benefits from being in the leading group. I have not had that feeling in the Dutch Government's attitude so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u9	I do not know exactly what feeling you have gained, but at least we are in that leading group. There is nothing we, as a government, can do about that. That is what we are already in, and I am very much in favour of it. Let us take the example of the euro area. That is what we are in and there is now a debate on further integration. That's why the group spokesmen are all talking about the Five Presidents' Report. That's right. We have had the euro crisis and, at least in architecture, a number of things are not right. Then you can say that that is very bad, that Europe is bad and that the single currency is bad, but let me say one thing: if we had had the guilder, it would have just as well been linked to other coins. So this is not a question of sovereignty; the question is how to organise it best. If you organize it properly, you could say we're going to take some follow-up steps. I can imagine that there is no unity on this point, for example between Germany and France. I could imagine that some countries might now want to be a leading group. I would rather be there, just like you, and I have a contribution to make on that point. So I would be in favour of that, but not at any price.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u10	The example of the euro is, of course, not random, because we deliver the President of the euro group. That has been widely supported in this House, including by my group. I therefore think that this example is rather obvious. However, there are other subjects where I think the Netherlands could be a bit more in the leading group. I am thinking, for example, of the internal market. What worries me a little in the vision you have unfolded is that you think it is a good idea that the Commission is doing less; moreover, the Commission is still doing a lot, but the Timmermans route is aimed at less legislation. The result is that most of the proposals will then have to come from the Council. I'm trying to read the Ecofin papers. It's unbelievable that they all have to be discussed on that one day. The Council, as originally set up, is, in my view, the least equipped and least democratic part of the European institutions. However, you say: less legislation from the Commission, because it is better to do more in the Council. That's how I understand you. Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u11	Then perhaps I did not express myself clearly, because that is not my intention. With all due respect, I think this is about different things. Firstly, as far as I am concerned, more or less legislation has nothing to do with more or less Europe. For example, I am in favour of more Europe for a number of things. I have just mentioned a number of elements, such as the common foreign policy, including elements relating, for example, to 'Dublin' or to external borders. For these things, you need more Europe. For cooperation in the field of justice and counter-terrorism, you need more Europe rather than less. However, I can also see that in the context of this debate, which I have also mentioned to you, is where this dynamic comes from, because of course there has also been a piece of unhindered Europe. That has rightly been criticised. I have no problem with getting the broom through that right now. On the contrary, I think that is rather essential. That is the first point. The second point is that of institutional relations. Looking at the Council or the Commission, I do not think that one is more democratic than the other. These are institutions that must be democratically and transparently controlled in an interplay of organisations. Our citizens rightly have questions about this. That is why I welcome the fact that the role of national parliaments can be strengthened through the red and green cards. This is supported by the Dutch Government. We have also supported the UK in this. I believe that we can go much further in terms of transparency; questions have also been asked about this. Some people think it is not enough, but it is, of course, a question of clarifying what is happening. In that sense, I see this in a different way. I say that there are risks to a Europe of different speeds. Transparency and inclusiveness are part of this, otherwise no one can follow who is talking about what. Of course, that's not very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u12	The Minister just said that if we had the guilder, it would also be linked to other coins. That was a good time. Can the Minister indicate whether the situation in the EMS, where we had both the euro and the guilder, was preferable to the current situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u13	No, he wasn't preferable. This does not depend on whether the solution found at that time in the type of monetary union that was subsequently decided was the very best idea. There's a difference of opinion on that. In the EMS, in which we had a direct relationship that was about the well-known snake in the tunnel and all that sort of thing was the sovereignty of the Netherlands in fact directly bound to the German mark. We didn't do that once, and then we paid a high price. Some MPs still know that very well. So there are also huge risks in that. The economy has also changed. There has been a Europeanisation of financial markets and economies. As a result, it makes sense for you to decide monetary sovereignty together. You can say that was a good, stable period, but so were the 1950s and 1960s. In the meantime, however, the world has changed. We had the euro-dollar bonds then, and we had German unification, which was also directly linked to this. After all, you must want Germany to see it in the same way as you do, because that is a slightly larger country than we are. For understandable reasons, I believe, at the end of the Cold War, Germany chose to join France in wanting a union. We could have kept that guilder, but Germany would have been in a very different position. I'm just saying, in that sense, it's all a little bit more complicated than it looks. It is not that it used to be beautiful and that we should have kept the guilder. I would love to have that guilder in my pocket again, but that does not mean that it would have been better. However, EMU, too, has a number of fundamental architectural problems, and we are now dealing with a number of issues mentioned by all the spokesmen, such as the six-pack, the capital market union, the banking union and the deposit guarantee scheme, and we are looking at what this means for the risks. That is, of course, something that goes with it and which is also simply being worked on. That's constructive engineering. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u14	I was referring not so much to a period where we can look back with pleasure, but much more to a mechanism where southern Member States were able to devalue their currency as needed. We've let go of that mechanism. This was an achievement which we had during the EMS period and which could substantially reduce the present problems, if not resolve them. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u15	I agree with the first part of your comments, but not with the second part. Yeah, it's actually right that Italy was able to devalue the lira at the time. This is a method of remaining competitive in a self-internationalising economy. Of course, it has also been a choice of the Italians to say: yes, but we have also paid a price for that, for example higher inflation, and that is why we have found it more important to cooperate with a number of other countries. Then you're in a club, and then you have to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u16	A large number of economists say that the euro had no other purpose than giving up your autonomy and sovereignty. If you hadn't, you could have decided a lot more as autonomous countries. Then you could have solved the current problems, in which we have come together, more easily in a smaller context. Or does the Minister see this differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u17	The problem is a bit that economists and lawyers of course always disagree. That's okay, too. This is a legitimate discussion between economists and lawyers. I do not share that view; I do not agree with it. I can see that there are serious problems attached to EMU. I see that the Minister for Finance, also as President of the Eurogroup, has taken a large number of measures to address this architecture. The government has a vision for this, but it does question certain issues. We have not yet decided on the longer term. We have questioned giving up even more sovereignty if we do not know what we will get in return. That is exactly what you are referring to, for example with regard to national budget law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u18	I do sometimes understand this need for flexibility, because you are moving slowly with 28 Member States, but I think we need to avoid getting even more countries with opt-outs through a kind of menu that everyone can sign on to. That would, of course, also increase non-committality. If a multi-speed decision has already been taken, a new treaty has so far been dealt with outside the EU Treaty. You say that this should then be done with Community decision-making or at least with a role for the Commission. That's very important. Does this also mean that the European Parliament should always have its role in this, so that the situation could not become more undemocratic?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u19	That is indeed the Dutch Government's preference, because it is best to shape these two elements, inclusiveness and transparency, through the Community method. This also allows you to use the settings. That also means you can bring people in. I wouldn't want it to be a dogma. I can imagine that you are trying to go a little further on a number of points with a number of equal-minded people, as Schengen has actually started to do. Otherwise, you wouldn't be able to start anything without having been directly accepted by all those institutions. I do not think you can and must record this, but it is clear what the Dutch Government prefers. Maybe I can also answer the questions relating to the economy right away on this point. I will then turn to the major issue of asylum seekers, migration and Turkey. Mr Schrijver rightly asked me how, with the right mix of monetary and fiscal instruments, you can ensure that in Europe, where growth is beginning again, the Netherlands is starting to get reasonable figures again, and more investment is being made. This is also the concern of many citizens, and this is also due to the very complicated question put to me by Mr Van Rooijen. This is, of course, the debate in the European economies at the moment: can countries with surplus balance of payments do more to invest? It often looks at Germany and, to a certain extent, the Netherlands, but it also contains specific elements, such as ageing populations and the like, and elements related to our gas exports. How do we get these investments back on track? For that there is the Juncker package. In all honesty, I say to Mr Schrijver that I am unable to evaluate the impact of the 315 billion stimulus package. It entered into force in July 2015 and will continue until 2018. Of course, these investments will be good for business and employment in Europe, but at the moment it is simply impossible to determine to what extent that is the case. Information from the European Investment Bank shows that a small 20% of the 315 billion has been obtained through approved transactions between that bank and the European Investment Fund. The European Investment Bank and the Fund approved operations of 6.7 billion and 2.3 billion respectively. The transactions are linked to large investments of around 61.5 billion so far. A small proportion of this is therefore financed by the EIB and the rest by others. It is also important to invest in private investments, so there is leverage. The list of investment projects approved by the EIB Board of Directors shall be publicly available. These are already more than 40 projects in a large number of Member States. The main sectors in which this funding is channelled are energy, SMEs and transport. A good example of a project supported by a guarantee under the EFSI "Juncker fund" is Qredits, a Dutch microfinance institution, which is supported by providing access to investments to small businesses. That is, of course, extremely important at this time. This is a credit facility of 100 million. The EIB's investment fund has also agreed to cover some of the credit risk on new loans to small businesses for 25 million. Of course, there is also the social side of Europe. It's very important. We live in a time when the issue of inequality is rightly at the top of the agenda of international and economic policy. The programmes for tackling unemployment among young people and the elderly are of course important. Everything is too much, but the Netherlands still scores well in terms of youth unemployment. However, I agree that the situation is worrying in many Member States. The total group in Europe in the 15-24 age group, which was unemployed and did not receive training or training, consisted of 7.1 million young people. Of these, 4.8 million are unemployed. A large number of initiatives have been taken in Europe. I admit immediately that they are not enough to reduce these figures dramatically all of a sudden, but since the Youth Guarantee in 2013, there has been a clear reduction in this group. At the same time, the progress of the Youth Guarantee is not uniform in all Member States. In many Member States there are difficulties in reaching young people who are far from the labour market and/or have disabilities. The Commission's aim is to focus more on this. This is important in the debate we are having more generally today. This just has to do with good governance. You can have very nice projects, but you have to make sure that you have the social and institutional infrastructure that we have in the Netherlands, so we can also find very difficult young people to reach. Unfortunately, this is not the case in all countries. However, it is important that this is given special attention. That's why I'm glad they asked for this. In addition, Europe is ageing. Moreover, that is why we are putting so much emphasis on structural reforms in the European economy. The ageing population has all kinds of effects on the economy. Unemployment among older people is also higher in Europe as a whole than among other age groups. Older people are often also long-term unemployed. The number of persons aged 65 and over is expected to increase by 20% in the period up to 2020. This will also increase the number of unemployed in that age group. This is a complex problem, which will have to be resolved primarily through national institutions. However, on a number of points, the European Union can provide more critical mass, particularly in the field of lifelong learning and countering perverse incentives, for example in tax systems and social security systems. This too is, of course, primarily national in the various countries. We do think it is important that this issue should be addressed and that it should lead to results. There are a number of instruments for this. Several country-specific recommendations have been made. The European Semester and other instruments make an assessment of a country. So it's not just about macro-economics or deficits. Country-specific recommendations are also made in the context of unemployment and the labour market. This means that you do not have a European superstate, but you do have an opportunity to strengthen each other on this issue. That is good, because we have no interest in it either if the problems in other European countries are not resolved. That is why there are a number of objectives for combating poverty and social exclusion; I believe that Mr Backer asked for them. In 2010, all EU Member States committed to the Europe 2020 target of reducing the number of people in or at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 20 million. However, as a result of the economic crisis, the number of people in or at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the EU has not decreased in recent years, but increased by 4 million. So it's not working properly. We are seeing stabilisation recently, but the number is still a long way from the strategy. That is why we have taken this issue as one of the priorities in the Presidency. Minister Asscher raises this in various councils. I have already said a few things about European Economic and Monetary Union. We are still in an uncertain international economic context; I do not have to go into that very much this evening. We see developments in China: from investment to consumption, from export to the local market, with all the problems of transition and instability and sometimes clumsy management that this creates. We also see developments in the oil market, which have a positive and a negative aspect. Generally speaking, there are quite a few risks to the international economic situation, including in Latin America. In this context, the European Union is growing cautiously. You must always think about how to strengthen the national and European economy in order to be ready for international economic competition, in a way that is in line with our values. I think this Chamber will have more time to discuss this with Minister Dijsselbloem in detail. From a formal and constitutional point of view, it is difficult for me to express my opinion on the European Central Bank's policy, and I say it quite honestly to Mr Van Rooijen. I know there are discussions about quantitative eating. However, I think that those who believe that we are in a balance-recession today, as it is called fashionably, have at least some of the truth on their side. This means that the monetary and fiscal instruments have been worked out at some point and that therefore the issue of structural reforms remains essential. A number of Members have mentioned this. In the area of the internal market, but also in the area of the digital market, a world can be won. That is therefore a priority for our Presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u20	Quite right that you say that everyone has their limitations. Therein the master shows himself; so do you. I do not want to raise the issue of the independence of the European Central Bank. You don't do that easily as a Dutchman or a German. You weren't suggesting that either. I would like to point out this afternoon that we must realise that the decisions that the ECB will take in the coming days or months are independent of what economists in the Netherlands and abroad think of them and regardless of what decisions they will take will have repercussions on the policies of the euro area and the whole European area and on the policies of many of the Member States. I have wanted to point out that some economists think that if central bank policy is ultimately becoming less effective at every next step, you should ask yourself whether you should stop doing so and whether you should not look at other methods. I just dropped the name Keynes anyway. Maybe you should see if you can give a spending impulse through an interest rate increase, possibly directly associated with tax increase, VAT that you might be able to compensate for by means of a lower income tax, and a spending impulse through what used to be called "public works."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u21	I understand exactly what you're saying. I just wanted to say that it is not appropriate for me to judge how long Mr Draghi will have to go on, so to speak. I think you agree. I am not going to interfere, because before I know it, I am on a very different line than Minister Dijsselbloem. I don't believe that, but I didn't check his last statements. You have far more use for his opinion than for what I say, because this is not my responsibility. However, I think you are touching on an important point. If there is a stagnation in the international and European economy, it will at least be partly due to what is now called a balance-sheet recession. If certain instruments are less effective, that means taking other recommendations seriously as well. I am thinking, for example, of what the Commission is doing in the direction of Germany, which, believe it or not, lacks a well-functioning infrastructure much more than the Netherlands. You can imagine something like that. I am not the one who has to instruct Germany to do so now, but I do understand that discussion. As far as I am concerned, it is separate from the institutional structure. It's also choices that are made. I do think that Draghi had a serious point when he said in 2012 that he would do everything in his power to preserve the euro and that he created a policy for it because other instruments were apparently ineffective. Of course, how long that should take is what he's about. Which brings me to the Five Presidents' Report. Once again, I am pleased that the Commission has come up with these proposals. In general, the Netherlands is in favour of rapid development of short-term measures. The cabinet is somewhat more reserved about a number of directions described in the report for the long term. First of all, we need to look at how EMU can be strengthened within the current frameworks before looking at the usefulness and need of further long-term steps. There are other countries that think otherwise. That's what I saw in that group of six. Countries such as Italy or Belgium really want to go much further. There's something else in the Netherlands. The further development of these proposals is postponed until 2017 and has also been made conditional on progress in the short term. In that sense it is not being started either, so to speak, and I am referring to the discussion about it, because the decision-making process always comes back. I think it is important to underline that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u22	However, the Five Presidents' Report also sets out a whole path. I wonder how free you can be as a government in relation to that agenda, the consultations and all those talks, which are nevertheless focused on those long-term objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u23	You can be very free at that. I think that the Dutch Government has quite clear positions in this regard. I have just pointed out that even a discussion about it is conditional on progress in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u24	I have a very brief supplementary question. You can be quite free in it. I understand. All countries are free to adopt their own positions. I assume that the Minister from the Dutch Presidency has some insight into how other countries feel about this. Maybe the Minister can say something about that? Do we have friends who think with us: take it easy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u25	Yes, Germany, not the first in European Monetary Union. I don't know if we think exactly one-on-one about everything the same, but they have the same reserves for that. A country like France is in a different way. Of course, thinking doesn't stand still, nor does it stand still with us. Not to mess the Chamber with further integration, I would like to say, but it is important to think about which blocks are important for the proper functioning of European Monetary Union. The position of the Dutch government in the short term is clear. There are even a number of questions about how this deposit guarantee scheme should operate. Before you know it, that's where we take risks that have already been taken elsewhere. That would be a problem for us. That's really being looked at carefully. Mrs Strik asked me how Greece is doing. Can Greece also be eligible for those EFSI projects? Yes. In this case, it is up to Greek entrepreneurs or the Greek authorities to submit these projects. They can, of course, be eligible for this. One of the issues that I often find underexposed in discussions about the European Union is good governance. It seems difficult for Greece to come forward with project proposals at the moment. I recognize that from other countries I used to work with. So you must also try to create that trust between countries and within countries, and that is why I am not in favour of a leap forward. You will have to keep the Greeks in mind, and that also means that you see in such an example that it is going too slowly. So we need to improve our procedures at European level, but Greece itself will have to qualify for these programmes, and there is nothing ideological about that. They're just gonna have to do that. Mrs Strik asked me what I think about the fact that the European Union has made itself so dependent on the IMF. I do not entirely share the view that we would have made ourselves dependent on it. You have those committees, the European Commission, the IMF, the ESM, who have their own expertise. It is also advantageous for the IMF to make a large financial contribution. This also means that global responsibility is being taken and that we do not just have to do it at European level. I'll see another advantage in that. I think it is important that all these institutions are involved. I do think it is important that they work well together and that they develop a bit of the same vision of things. Even technocrats, to put it bluntly, can fight with each other, just like economists, lawyers and everyone else, even if they are politically controlled. It is about Greek society and the Greek government. What if the IMF doesn't hook up? The IMF was an institution that at some point was for debt reduction for Greece, but imposed strict conditions on it. The Eurogroup is directly involved in this. I think it would be wiser for you to continue with Mr Dijsselbloem for the details. Mr Knapen asked how the government could ensure that all Member States comply with budgetary agreements. We have agreed this with all the Member States and they must comply with it. This requires an active role of the European Commission, which should monitor compliance with these agreements. There are, of course, regular discussions at ministerial level, such as yesterday in the Eurogroup on a number of countries, where the situation was raised in Italy, France and a number of other countries. That's what I can say about this. As is well known, certain penalties may be imposed. There is a debate going on whether this is the same for small countries as for large ones. Perhaps that is what Mr Knapen is referring to. That is indeed a risk to me. I remember that Germany was reforming in 2003 or 2004 with the well-known package and that the rules were indeed broken at that time. That was a very big mistake, which the Netherlands rightly pointed out at the time. Through the issues I have just mentioned, the semester, the discussions of the ministers are now being looked at much more seriously. You can differ on whether that is sufficient, but I think that is the case. Mr Knapen also asked whether we were satisfied with the current Stability and Growth Pact. In general, it is a reliable framework for responsible public expenditure. It's an anchor of trust between different countries; that's what it's all about when you work together. But it also offers room for flexibility. A number of major reforms are now taking place in Italy. It's not just a straight jacket, but it's being looked at. It is also seen that elements of migration expenditure are not necessarily covered by the deficit formulation. That seems real to me. It hasn't become some kind of blind ideology. Mr Knapen asked about the role of the Netherlands in the electoral group and the IMF. If all euro area countries were to form a euro area chair in the IMF today, the total voting weight of that chair would be 21.4%. That chair would be larger in size than that of the United States with a voting weight of 16.5%. Then we would also get a veto, because for that you need 15%. So the US keeps that; let there be no misunderstanding about that. Moreover, there is no support for this in the euro area. Several Member States agree with the long-term objective, while others do not share it. We attach ourselves to the electoral group. We now have the Dutch-Belgian electoral group, which is not very long. The links with these countries contribute to a good political relationship between the EU and third countries in the region, including several neighbourhood countries and candidate countries. I remember that when I was Minister for Development Cooperation, there were those electoral groups in the World Bank. It's really nice to keep working like this. We have said: we only want that if it happens at once, because then it makes sense and we have a greater position of power; then we can also make a dent in a package of butter in international monetary relations. Of course, that's not unimportant. Whether we are talking about the great economic crisis, China or Europe, monetary policy is also a kind of war, with other means. Well, then you'd have to be in a good position. We're holding on to that electoral group now. If we can do it in one go, we'll find a way to do it. I come to an important point, namely migration, on which everyone has rightly asked a lot of questions. I will answer the questions specifically without saying too much in general. I think that yesterday's sitting was very important, although I would like to say straight away that it is important that such a meeting should actually lead through negotiations to decisions that are enforceable and verifiable. The essence is that when it comes to the borders with Macedonia and Greece or when it comes to the boats between Turkey and Greece, we as a value community can no longer accept this model in which people die. This means that the smuggling model, in which people are transported, used and sometimes arriving, fortunately, most of them have to be broken. For that, you need four elements. The nice thing is that we took an important step yesterday, and it's one swallow, but I think it's a game changer to work on those four elements. The first element is Schengen. It is a question of reintroducing the Schengen rules which have not been implemented for a period of time, as many have rightly criticised. In fact, that is the way the Balkan route is being closed down. That's important, because you have to lock something up somewhere to stop a current. We're talking about people now. It doesn't mean you don't have to think about these people anymore. The second element is that the people who are now in Greece must be helped immediately. The Netherlands has been the first country to help Greece. When the Balkans themselves took action, we as President said in the negotiations that this was not acceptable, because it was unilateral and not a European solution. The Greeks now need and want to be helped on two points. The latter is not insignificant. They now have a real problem and we in Europe should show solidarity, both through humanitarian aid and through aid to a read mission from Greece to Turkey. I should like to touch on the legal points: can we, may we, and so on? That is a very important point. I am now in contact with Grandi and the UNHCR. The third element is Turkey itself. Turkey is a difficult partner; let there be no misunderstanding about that. I like to agree with everyone here who thinks so. There is an internal struggle in the country and there is a press bride, but we need them and they need us. That has nothing to do with capitulation of values. We will have to work with them and then, if they take those people back, find a legal route to include people through a voluntary resettlement programme in Europe. That's what's happening now. So the four elements are European solidarity, voluntary or not, you can still talk about this: the closure of the Balkan route, aid to Greece and return to Turkey and a route that makes it possible to get people who need help legally here. It is only with these four elements that we can make the problem manageable. Maybe it's too late and it should have been quicker, but those four elements are now there. This will have to be discussed in the next ten days in order to see exactly how this should work in practice. Where are those boats? Who's in on it? What does it mean to readmission? How fast is humanitarian aid going? These are the real problems. No one can expect you to be able to design that without any proper preparation, but I am positive about that. It is important that you make a difference between the different categories of people. But before I get to that, I'd like to say the following. A number of Members have asked about developments in Turkey. Indeed, Sunday evening, for example, in the conversation between Prime Minister Rutte and Prime Minister Davutoglu, there was talk of the press bribe and Zaman. I'll say one thing. People say you can't actually talk to Turkey anymore. I don't know. If you want to do something for refugees and try to get our European people to do it under good humanitarian control, then you really will have to talk to Turkey, whether you like it or not. It doesn't mean you're suddenly speechless or the Turks suddenly have all the power in their hands. It just isn't. Turkey too has enormous problems. It has nothing to do with whether they are right or wrong or kind or not; they also need Europe. It's just negotiation. That is the realistic foreign policy of today. You're not throwing away your values. You're trying to bring your values closer to getting asylum seekers' problems under control. Of course you don't shut your mouth about some things that are very close to your heart. I myself was in Turkey on my first trip as Foreign Minister. It was exactly about that point. We just sat on a plane, waited and said: either you release our journalist or we leave. That doesn't mean you're talking to flour in your mouth all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u26	I would like to make two comments. The Minister talks about values and what they mean. The fact that the Balkan route is now being closed has been a choice made by a number of countries on that route itself. They have said: we do not do this anymore, we do not want to be the first country where people apply for asylum in this way. That also has something to do with values. I have made a number of critical comments on this. That is my first point. My second point is that, of course, Turkey is also negotiating and that there are some sensitive points. I ask the Minister how he appreciates the significance of the Turkish desire to speed up the accession negotiations. That is an extremely sensitive point in these negotiations. I find it very difficult to exchange aid for refugees, the humanitarian task we have here, as it were, against that Turkish desire, that Turkish pressure, and as Europe is going to make concessions in those accession negotiations. I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u27	My estimate is the next...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u28	Mr Ten Hoeve wishes to place another interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u29	I have a supplement. The Minister says: of course there is talk with Turkey, also about the problems that exist. I believe that. I do, however, have the impression that this is what you see in our Western European newspapers, which is that there is a great deal of attention to democracy, human rights, freedom of the press and that sort of thing, whereas the human problem of the Kurds, in fact, suffers from the suffering of entire populations, much more than the individuals involved in these other elements. Can the Minister reassure me on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u30	I'm afraid not. I think that the situation in south-east Turkey is very serious at the moment. The fights between Turkey and the PKK, especially the young new loot to the PKK tribe, called the YDG, continue. It is to my heart, probably with Mr Ten Hoeve, that the civilian population is the victim, that it is actually between two fires and stuck between the warring parties. A large number of people are displaced. That is why I find the problems connected. There are also Kurds heading towards the west. I mean not so much to Europe, but to Istanbul. That is a situation which should not be cast directly in terms of good and evil. The PKK is, of course, a terrorist organisation and it also uses many attacks and blood. However, this is independent of the legitimate rights of the Kurds to a good life and to the protection of human rights. So if you're gonna react to that, you're always gonna have to do it proportionally. I agree with Mr Ten Hoeve. Our embassy and others are active in that. It is an extremely complicated problem. This has been exacerbated by recent internal political relations in Turkey, which I do not welcome. In any case, let there be no misunderstanding. I come to the question of Mr Kuiper, who deals with the main items. Let's position where we are first. Turkey, whether we like it or not, and whether Mr Kuiper agrees or not, has been a candidate country for a long time. The fact that this has been the case for a long time indicates how complicated it is. It's been a candidate for years, but it's never gonna get through. That is why a number of countries are blocking the opening of chapters. These are France, Cyprus and other countries. Of course, this also has to do with these developments. Last night wasn't suddenly said we're gonna cheat on our terms. We also see that Turkey, probably due to international strategic and political developments, has become more interested in approaching Europe. That can be tested. This does not mean, however, that we are suddenly creating other conditions under which, for example, visa liberalisation or the opening of chapters is possible. Moreover, it is only about opening chapters, not about closing them or even beginning to move forward in candidate membership. I would, for example, like the Netherlands, let me be honest with you about opening the chapters of the rule of law as soon as possible. That is what the Netherlands is now working on, precisely because of the problem we are talking about. You're gonna be in a real negotiation with each other. There is, as I say to Mr Kuiper, quite a bit of tension. I don't want to deny that. There is a situation in which Europe and Turkey both have a particular problem. One cannot do without the other in the discussion about this. However, you must do so in such a way that it is not always easy to realize where your own standards, values and limits are. However, I would like to add something, to highlight another side, namely that we are also easy judges. I've been to Gaziantep and other places in Turkey. It is incredible how hospitable the Turks are towards refugees, how these people are treated there and how much money goes into it. We are talking about 2.1 million people, and that number is rising. We should not say: that is good and let us leave the rest. It's important to really take that kind of thing with you. After all, this is a solution to a problem that everyone is now facing. The question is how to help humanitarian people who, because of the war in Syria in particular, as well as other countries, have been hit in this stream of misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u31	I would like to add a question about the Council of Europe. To what extent does the Minister consider it useful to pursue some kind of flanking policy in the area of strengthening the Turkish rule of law through the Council of Europe? Turkey is a member of the ECHR. There is a Turkish judge at the European Court of Human Rights. Turkey has recently greatly increased its contribution to the Council of Europe, giving it the maximum number of parliamentarians in the Parliamentary Assembly. Is it possible to respond positively, including through the Committee of Ministers, as a flanking policy, or is it a wishful dream?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u32	No, not at all. I don't think it's a wish dream. In fact, I think it is a very real point. We have the Council of Europe for a reason. It's an important organization. I am personally and, of course, very politically committed to it. We in the Committee of Ministers are very active in Turkey's position. I'd like to take another look at that. I don't think it's necessary, but it's a good incentive. Mr Schrijver knows the Council of Europe well because he is in the Parliamentary Assembly, which is very good. It is an organization that often works in the shadows. If there are certain judgments of the Court or certain reports come out, he suddenly comes out, and that is what is happening. I think Mr Schrijver also asked about the possibility of a summit. The last one, I think, took place about ten years ago, in 2005. In chronological terms, you could say that we should do that again. Maybe we can take a look at it. If I am not mistaken, Bulgaria is now the President of the Council. He'll have to do that. It would be a little crazy if we did, but I'm open to everything. There is another point. Mr Schrijver mentioned a number of mechanisms, such as the ECHR. There is also the Venice Commission, which is now playing a major role in the problems we have with Poland. There are a lot of hidden treasures, just to put it this way. One of the issues we are currently working on in the light of the migration problem is the NATO mission. We want to make sure that it can operate in a way that fits the law. You can see that in the political game of the Aegean, the case law of the Court has always been at stake. So that's where he plays an important role. As far as I am concerned, we will continue to take what is in it from the Council of Europe. So I am very encouraged to do so, and I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u33	I just want to pick up on the answer I got. Germany and France had a blockade on discussing a number of chapters of the accession procedure with Turkey, and they had reason to do so. This, of course, also had to do with the development of the human rights situation in Turkey. We now see there every day showing that we are very concerned. The Minister himself also mentions examples, such as the press-breidel. Now we're going to say in a completely different context: we're going to open those chapters and we're going to have the conversation. That is no longer from a position of strength, from a European self-awareness about the human rights dialogue you want to conduct, but it is happening from a situation where you feel compelled, because you need each other, to lift that blockade and yet talk about those chapters. I express my concern about that. I hope that this will not lead to an intransigence of Europe or of the Netherlands in the dialogue with Turkey, in which you are gradually being forced to do so. You are sanctioning Turkey as a partner, of which you know and see what it is doing, precisely when it comes to human rights and the rule of law. You're sanctioning a position and you're losing your position of strength that you've taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u34	Of course, there's something to argue with, with all due respect. Despite this position of strength, the Kurds and minorities are doing badly. If you have the chance to open chapters about that, you might have a better chance of raising that more effectively. After all, thinking doesn't stand still. I would point out that there is currently insufficient effectiveness along the road we have now followed. I do agree with you on this point, and I hope that I will reassure you that, in what was discussed last night, the conditions approach is not changed in any way, either in the language, or in the text, or in the case of visa liberalisation. You can't do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u35	Moreover, I am reassured about the question that I did not ask myself and Mr Kuiper did. You spoke of Turkey. Everyone who knows that country knows the hospitality and can imagine the enormous effort that is being made there for the millions of refugees who are there. I think it is quite right for the Minister to draw attention to this. But I have the question of what the position of the Kurds means for the status of safe third country. How does the government view that, in the context of what happened last night?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u36	The Dutch Government has not yet taken a decision on this point. That is a decision that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice is considering, of course on the basis of international principles. Greece has decided that. For Greece, Turkey is a free and safe country. That is important for this discussion. That is something that can be decided nationally and sovereignly. It is often about the re-admission from Greece to Turkey. I understand your concerns on this point, a concern that we share with Turkey from Greece is part of the strategy to solve the problem of trafficking in human beings. That hasn't worn off yet. That will be completed in the next ten days. That is one of the reasons why it was not decided yesterday. The Commission has set up its legal service there. President Juncker has made it very clear that sending back to Turkey is possible under the current legal framework. That's an important signal. Greece already regards Turkey as a safe third country. Re-admission of illegal immigrants is already taking place under the bilateral Greek-Turkish re-admission agreement. In order to be able to send someone back to Turkey, you must of course meet certain requirements. It would be terrible if those people would go to jail, because of course they can't. There must be an opportunity for the returned migrant to actually apply for asylum. This is part of the international legal approach. If asylum is granted, protection should be granted in a manner consistent with the letter and spirit of the Convention on Refugees: individual assessment, non-refoulement, adequate protection and so on. Furthermore, there must always be an opportunity for migrants to challenge the assumption of security. There must therefore always be an opportunity to appeal. This requires that the people who are sent back are well informed about their position and legal possibilities. That is now the issue in the completion of this plan, if that is possible. We ask Turkey not only to take back people, but also that, if these refugees are recognised, they receive protection in a way consistent with the refugee treaty. That's where we are right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u37	I understand that I have already answered a question, namely that there should always be an opportunity to apply for asylum and that it should be assessed on an individual basis whether Turkey is a safe country. I had another question. In the beginning, you indicated that we must stop the smuggling of human beings. Humanitarianly, we cannot afford to keep killing people at sea. From the same humanitarian point of view, the first step is to close the border between Macedonia and Greece. People get stuck in Greece even before the situation there has improved. Agreements are being made on sending back and on closing borders, even before the conditions in Turkey have improved. Turkey is being instructed to introduce visa restrictions, with the result that Iraqis will no longer be able to reach Turkey. Why isn't it turned around? Why not first ensure that the criteria are met and that conditions are improved, then consider whether it is possible to close those other routes? I have also heard very few concrete ideas about legal routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u38	I must contradict you on both points, starting with your interpretation of my words. I said that the international refugee treaty must be respected. You say that this must be done in Greece. You don't have to, because that's exactly what we're figuring out. I also disagree with you on the second point, because that is exactly what we have not done. We have not protected the borders. That was the reason why the redistribution was not crediblely implemented by the European countries. Apart from the question of guilt: you cannot redistribute or voluntarily relocate if border surveillance is not carried out at the same time. That is indeed painful, but it is even more painful if you cannot control your external borders. Everyone has said that there should be screening and checking, which was exactly what didn't happen. That's why we talked about staying behind the hot spots. The exact opposite of what you said happened: there was no control at the borders. In that sense, there was no stop to the flow, so people illegally found their way to Germany. This system is not only acceptable to Germany anymore, but is actually not acceptable to anyone, because it does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u39	I'm gonna stick to my points anyway. The border with Macedonia is now closed. So people are still stuck in Greece, while there is hardly any redistribution and there is still no asylum system. Why not get this redistribution going and set up an asylum procedure first? Then you can say: now we can continue this route. The same applies to Turkey: there is no local route yet. No money has yet been transferred to improve the conditions there. However, it is already agreed that no one is allowed through. I do not agree with you, because you seem to see the facts quite differently from what I do. But I am very afraid that by incorporating these conditionality, refugees will eventually experience problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u40	I really disagree with you. Perhaps that is for exactly the same reasons that you disagree with me, because you think that is more humane. That doesn't mean I'm cheering. On the contrary, I've been to that border and I've been very emotional there. I have seen the border between Macedonia and Greece: that is a horror. You see people walking around with little kids getting stuck in the mud endlessly. No one wants that, let there be no misunderstandings about that. The problem now is that, if you want to get that under control, we have to comply with the Schengen rules. That hasn't happened so far. That means you're being screened. If you have no right to enter the country, you will not enter the country. As is well known, a lot of people have come along in the stream which has no right at all to stay in Europe, making it more difficult for others. Something must be done about this if it is to be humanitarianly acceptable. I admit immediately that we are already dealing with a humanitarian tragedy here, let there be no misunderstanding about it, but I do want a route that makes it possible to do it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u41	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u42	I hope that the Minister will give further consideration to how redistribution and all these other improvements will be achieved. I would like to return to the Minister's statement that asylum is also possible in Turkey. I thought I had just understood his answer in such a way that he said: before people can be transferred to Turkey, there must first be an application for asylum in Greece, because it is assessed whether Turkey is a safe third country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u43	No, that's okay. Greece has already decided that Turkey is a safe third country, so that is not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u44	Can I ask a question on one more point, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u45	Very briefly, Mrs. Strik. There are more people who want to have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u46	We have a procedural directive and the standards. If someone comes to Greek territory and wants asylum, he cannot be sent back. It's the Hirsi arrest that stops that. There must be access to asylum. The cabinet has always indicated this. The asylum procedure shall assess whether Turkey is a safe third country. I hope that position is not abandoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u47	I'm not about Greece. Greece has designated Turkey as a safe third country. We want to ensure that when people return to Turkey, this happens in accordance with international standards. That is not necessarily necessary in Greece and can also be done in Turkey. That's why we haven't figured it out yet. Mrs. Strik is right about that. I didn't say there's an agreement yet, did I? We said a number of things last night that I think Mrs Strik will appreciate very positively; I just did not hear that from her. We have talked about who is going back and who is entitled to asylum. Situations like the ones with Syrians coming in with a boat, you have to end. Otherwise, more people will drown. Those are entitled to a voluntary relocation in Europe, which I think is a very positive development. I don't quite understand where the problem is right now. I hope this works. First of all, let us hope that we really agree with the Turks, the Greeks and the other European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u48	The question I have, even when I hear it like this, is how much legal uncertainty there is on this point for the next ten days. I saw that the Director of UNHCR said in Europe that collective return cannot be achieved. My first question is whether this is true. My second question is in line with a previous question by Mr Kuiper. Do I understand that there are five dossiers in particular if I have the correct number of cases which are now being discussed again with Turkey? I don't know if the Minister wants to be more specific about what files they are. My third question concerns the possible arrangement. It will only apply to new people who happen. Is there some kind of transitional arrangement? What happens to the tens of thousands that do not come in now, but are not covered by the new regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u49	The current situation is legally extremely unsatisfactory. I would point out that people are dying. There are all kinds of rights, but if you can't live up to them, you have a problem. Furthermore, according to the European Commission, which has sent all the lawyers to do so, it is possible to return to Turkey under the current legal framework. Greece already considers Turkey to be a safe third country. Readmission of illegal migrants is already taking place under the bilateral Greek-Turkish Readmission Agreement. Today, to be honest, I cannot say anything about it. The Greeks and Turks are together in Izmir, precisely to talk about this and negotiate it. The European Union is in the process of creating an alternative for all those who have the right to asylum and who go back to Turkey. Those who have not only seen it better legally, but also practically. It is still being examined together with UNHCR to what extent this can be done in a way that enables the principles of profession and so on. For example, there is talk of a drowning party being picked up by a NATO ship. A NATO ship is not going to transport people, but if this happens, certain conditions must be considered. For example, the question of whether a Turkish Kurdish can ask for asylum on a ship is one of the important elements. There's international law. That is why we believe it is important that this be maintained. So it's not like nothing could happen. I would point out, moreover, that we have much more difficulty sending people to Greece on this issue, and that is a judicial ruling rather than a problem between Greece and Turkey. The bizarre thing is that Mrs Strik does not find it difficult to send people to Greece, while a judge has said that we cannot send people to Greece, and when there is a Greek-Turkish agreement, where there are also elements that are important because of international law, she says that this cannot be done. I do agree with her, however, and that is one of the reasons why we did not adopt this whole package yesterday, namely that this is an important element and that cooperation with UNHCR is important for this. UNHCR will and will have to play a role. I have a lot of experience with UNHCR myself. That organization isn't gonna do anything if it can't agree to it. If there is cooperation between the European Union and UNHCR to bring people back to Europe by legal means, that organisation is of course involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u50	I have two brief questions to ask the Minister in response to his comment on the possible accession negotiations with Turkey. First of all... The Minister will see room to open some chapters. In view of his comment on how endless this has been going on and how long Turkey has been a candidate for membership, my question to the Minister is whether this is fair to Turkey. In substance, Turkey is further away from membership than ever before. Isn't it fairer, even towards such a country, to say that accession is far from being the case, but that we do want to work on serious association agreements and so on? We can change the way things are going. Second. How hard does the Minister consider the recognition of the Armenian genocide in any new talks or accession negotiations? How hard is that peripheral condition for him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u51	As for your first question, for the Dutch Government, Turkey is a candidate country. We're not looking at another modality. In addition, the Netherlands has never imposed a blockade on any chapter. It's never been our policy. We are very critical when it comes to actual negotiations on the chapters. Furthermore, we believe that the opening of the chapters on the rule of law offers an opportunity to discuss some of the critical points. They won't be solved in a day. I have no illusions about this and am not naive, but it is important. Furthermore, we have in no way become soft on enlargement, as the Dutch Government's policy has shown. On the contrary, the Dutch government has become harder than softer. Copenhagen criteria, absorption capacity and so on play a role in this. Armenia's case is not a condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u52	The Minister says that this case is not a condition. What does this mean when I think of the motion for a resolution on this subject? What role does it play? Is the Minister actually saying that this motion is no longer relevant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u53	This motion plays a role, but it has also been discussed with the Chamber about the way in which the Dutch Government interprets it. We believe that the horrors experienced by the Armenians are precisely between Turkey and Armenians, between scientists and between historians. But it is not something that needs to be proclaimed through an official government position. I know that you are in a different position, as is the case for many people, but this is the position of the Dutch Government. By the way, this does not mean that we are not involved in the processing and discussion in all kinds of ways or that we are not present with people who are grieving for that reason and who come together for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u54	I will come back to the possibilities of asylum. Emergency breaks the law. The need is high, so you have to look for practical possibilities. That is quite clear. I feel that the position of Kurds, as always in history, is in danger of snowing again. If Greece recognises Turkey as a safe third country, it means that a Syrian Kurd can simply be put on the ferry to be transported to Turkey. Is Turkey also a safe country of origin for Greece? Does a Turkish Kurd who fled to Greece go on the ferry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u55	I am afraid to say that, but that does not seem to me to be the case at first. I should take a look at what will be agreed on that. In any case, an application for asylum from a Kurd from Turkey who feels discriminated against or unfairly treated must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u56	I give the floor to Mr Schaap. After he has asked his question, I would like to ask Members to give the Minister an opportunity to get a bit further on his first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u57	I would like to comment on the limits. I have heard with interest the reply on the relationship between Greece and Turkey and Turkey's security status, but I would like to return to Schengen. We have effectively abolished internal borders, but we have left the external borders in the hands of the Member States. I myself proposed the deployment of coastal surveillance at the blue external borders. I've been following through the news between the companies here. The Baltic States are now closing the border with Russia because they are dying of a flow of refugees through Russia, which may even be sent, as has already happened to Finland. Can it not be considered that we should now tackle the issue of external borders with vigour and say that this is not a matter for a specific Member State, but for a European one, and that in short, we should set up European border surveillance along both the blue borders and the land borders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u58	At least that's an interesting thought. I will not say at once this evening that the Dutch Government is in favour of a totally europeanised border guard. I would point out, however, that this is a very deep issue in the national sovereignty of countries. We have now placed priority on a European coastguard. Moreover, I agree with Mr Schaap that this is in principle no different because it is a blue border and not a green one. We see that a number of countries have extremely serious problems because of the same type of debate as here. I thought there was a meeting of the Justice Ministers tomorrow to get on with it. I want it to be completed during the European Presidency. I think we can do this, too. I would add that a number of countries simply say: you have nothing to do with that; we are guarding the border ourselves, because that is our national sovereignty. In order to reassure you, the Netherlands now intends to do so very heavily, Secretary of State Dijkhoff, very energeticly, for at least the blue borders in the shortest possible time; I hope even during the European Presidency of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u59	I have also said about blue borders: as long as the European flag is above it, it is legally covered by Europe and not by a single Member State. In this way you could say to each Member State: there may be Esten or Letten at the border, but let's arrange for you to get a slightly different hat on...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u60	I understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u61	... and you will then be able to do your work in a coordinated manner at European level and be addressed to European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u62	There are two important elements. I'm not in favour of building fences. I know that the border must be guarded and in very exceptional circumstances that can be an option, but then you will have to respect European law, foreign law and Schengen, whether you coordinate it or not. So that stays the same. I do agree that Europe is too slow with Frontex, for example. I would therefore like to see more dynamism in this and I would like to see it speeded up. Mr Schaap has also asked questions about this. When are these people coming? A number of Member States, including the Netherlands, are good at this. We really do deliver out-of-proportion, but that must of course be done together. There must be trust between Member States to do so together. It's the work of a chairman to do that. You can pay us for that, but you can't ask for a result commitment at all, because I can't do that. Let me now turn to a number of other questions. I thought I said something about the Council of Europe. As I have said before in the direction of the Labour Party, I am very much in favour of making the OSCE a legal entity. Mr Elzinga asked me this time. We've been working pretty hard on that. This is, of course, happening in Vienna during the regular OSCE meeting on this subject. We have now got the German OSCE President to do so... Well, that might sound like they don't think so either. In any case, they intend to convene a meeting on the issue. We are also active in this area. So far, there has been a lack of consensus on this. I would like to add that political conditions have not turned this issue into a positive one, particularly in view of the crisis in Ukraine. 'Cause what do you get? The desirability of legal personality, and thus of legal protection for the OSCE, with many people in the field, is not supported equally by all countries. That is not, however, a point for us to make at the same time. That's what we're doing. The German Presidency is taking initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u63	I was patiently waiting for the Minister to answer my questions about Turkey, but I think he is done with that issue. So I'm just gonna ask them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u64	I apologize if I skipped a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u65	That could happen, so I'm just gonna ask you one more time. In November 2015, an agreement was reached with Turkey and an amount of 3 billion was to be given to Turkey. If it wasn't enough, there'd be a collapse. My question was whether a ceiling was agreed in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u66	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But then you can see how it works in the European Union. The Italian Government had a problem with this, which led to this amount being relatively late. It comes partly from the European budget and partly from the national budgets. I now believe that 1 billion has been made available for this, which is now being spent directly on programmes and projects in the field of refugee reception. This amount could well increase in the light of the problems in Turkey and the negotiations with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u67	May I conclude from this that the ceiling of that agreement is 3 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u68	No, you can't conclude that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u69	Then what's the ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u70	I'm not sure what you mean by "ceiling." An agreement has been made to spend 3 billion on refugee shelters, to put it in general terms. An agreement was made on this in November. I just told you what's been spent. That could go up to 3 billion. If you call it "ceiling," that's the ceiling. We're probably gonna raise that. You have seen what happened in Aleppo and what the situation is now in Turkey. This is now being looked at in the context of the agreements that were discussed yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u71	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u72	That was my one question that hasn't been answered, but another question hasn't been answered. I hope you'll allow me to put it again. My other question was Erdogan's quote, which said that there is no moderate or non-moderate Islam: Islam is Islam and that is it. I indicated that Erdogan is an expert in this matter. My question was whether Erdogan is lying or if the Minister sees otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u73	Whether he's lying or not, he's gonna have to look at it with Allah, or with the one that inspired him; I don't know. I do know that there are a lot of currents in Islam: moderate and less moderate currents, and that politically very committed people use Islam as a source of inspiration, as you have in all religions. Islam is a religion; so you can define it. I don't think it's a question of lying or not lying. It's a view that anyone can have, whether you like that person or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u74	Then I'll ask the question differently...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u75	And then finally, this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u76	To what extent does the Minister take this quote seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u77	I take all of Mr Erdogan's quotes seriously. We're negotiating with him. He's a solid negotiator. We have quite a few things to do with him; you know that too. If you would like to hear that from me, that is certainly the case. It's not someone you have to negotiate soft with, on the contrary. That's why I said we didn't get out last week. I come to a number of questions that have been asked about the United Kingdom. Maybe I can be a little shorter about that. Maybe I should explain the point of the ever closer union. Mr Schrijver and others asked about the meeting in Rome. In relation to the term "ever closer union," the decision of the Convention provides that this does not constitute a legal basis for extending any provision of treaties or of secondary EU legislation. The texts of the Treaty state: the ever closer union of the peoples. That's what's said there. This means that no-one is recording that it must then lead to deeper forms of political integration. That is why I have no problem with that term and I could agree to it in Rome. I'm not really up to that term, I'm telling you honestly. It doesn't have to be religion for me. It doesn't have to be anti-religion, by the way, of a "ever closer union" and "if you do, you're doing a pretty bad job at this time," just to put it bluntly. No. For the United Kingdom, it is recognised that it is not committed to and is not required to further political integration into the European Union, given its specific situation and its domestic political debate under the Treaties. This will be dealt with at the next amendment to the Convention. In the light of the British concerns on this point, the cabinet welcomes clarification of the term. The cabinet has always considered that this term does not imply an obligation to further political integration. Mr Schrijver asked me what I think that Mr Tusk was doing in particular. In itself, we think that is a logical choice. It was clear from the outset that this should lead to agreements at a European Council level. The process was so important for Prime Minister Cameron, but also for other government leaders. In addition, it would have been very difficult for the Commission to separate the Presidency's role from its own substantive involvement in the various sensitive issues, such as access to social security. It wouldn't have worked very well either. They are also the Guardians of the Treaty. They must also advise on this. However, they have played an important role in their own substantive positioning in the direction of the debate. So they have always been involved: can it or cannot it be done; how does it relate to the treaties? All agreements also have the Commission's agreement. That's kind of important, too. And then when you ask if everything goes wrong, I guess it doesn't. Soon, of course, the United Kingdom will have to choose whether it sees a future in this reformed union, as it sees it. I hope so, but it's up to them. In any case, it has gone well at the level of the European Heads of Government. I would just like to say that at least that has worked out in a positive way. The D66 Group asked me about legal status. It is a decision of Heads of State or Government, which explains the EU Treaties in a number of ways. It explains how we interpret and apply the treaties. This Decision does not in itself amend the Treaties of the European Union. You can't. That is a specific procedure, as you know. However, the decision refers to the intention to amend the European Union's Treaties in the future in certain respects. Of course, a treaty change can only take place after your Chamber has approved it. That decision also refers to the intention to adapt secondary Union law in a number of places. This will be done through the usual EU legislative procedures. This intention is also in line with Dutch wishes. Mr Backer and Mrs Strik also asked me how it will proceed and whether it is conditional on what is in it. If they choose no, what happens? It's conditional indeed. The conclusion of the European Council explicitly states that the agreements will cease to exist if the result of the referendum in the United Kingdom is that the country leaves the EU. That explication has been applied and implicitly it was already in the text. This agreement must therefore be seen in the light of the British referendum. The other option, namely an entry into force separate from the outcome of the referendum, would not be acceptable to many Member States. Part of the package, such as the agreements on economic governance and access to social security, is based on a number of typically British wishes. In this light, therefore, we consider that to be logical. It was also asked whether there would still be equality of treatment. The so-called alert and safeguard mechanism envisages a temporary restriction of access to social security if there is an exceptionally high influx of workers from other Member States over a longer period of time. If that is adopted, it will apply to all countries. So that can also apply to us. Moreover, we have not yet taken a position on this at the moment. That is not yet the case. This has, moreover, to do with the way in which the United Kingdom has organised its social security system. As a result, people came there only for social security purposes. The fact that they had a problem with this had partly to do with their own legislation. In part, they have raised this by the way in which this has been decided. What the UK's relationship to the EU will look like after a Brexit is not to be said. As you know, the Cabinet sincerely hopes that this will not happen. However, if the outcome of the referendum is that the UK is leaving the EU, a completely new situation will arise. It will require the United Kingdom to negotiate with the EU on the implementation of a new relationship. That is true in all respects, including trade. That has never happened and I do not want to speculate on it. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I don't think it's a good idea to speculate on that. Then I come to questions about Ukraine and the referendum. A large number of questions have been asked. Let me treat it quickly. That's not because I don't want to treat them, but because of the time. Firstly, the referendum is a democratic instrument. Your chambers have approved that. So it is good that there is a referendum. It is a corrective referendum, an advisory referendum. I cannot anticipate what we are going to do about it, otherwise it would not have been advisory. We will assess that in the light of the results. That was the second point. The third point is: I stand for my signature. We have had fantastic debates here, I remember, with different groups and with everyone on the association agreement. I'm in favour of the association agreement. The Dutch Government will also actively interfere in the debates that will be taking place in the coming weeks. Of course she will. However, it is a social initiative. It comes from society and it is good that it also begins in society. It is nonsense that the cabinet would not want to participate; I do so myself regularly in the media and you will also see more of the cabinet. I also hope that the political parties present here, whether for or against them, will engage. It is something of politics as a whole and it is not determined by the government. However, it is clear where we stand. I really think it is very important that the association agreement should be established. I think it is good for the Netherlands and for the care of Dutch people. We are dealing with this, and I have already told you this with a very unstable ring around Europe. This is a sovereign will of the Ukrainian people and it has been approved by Parliament. Democratically, Ukraine wants this treaty. There's an incredible amount of stories going around. I'm gonna distance myself from that. It has nothing to do with EU membership, it is not about money and there is no visa. I therefore hope that everyone will try to let the debate on the real issue go. The Dutch Government is therefore in favour of this. It's good for stability. It's good for our trade and we can do something about corruption. I will also come to the point of, for example, laying batteries. If Mr Koffeman wants to have an opportunity to cooperate with Ukraine on animal welfare issues of this kind, he must be in favour of the association agreement. That's what that's about. He can laugh about that, but that's what it says. So I don't understand how he can be against it at all. Finally, a country like Ukraine is going to work with us on something that he thinks is important and then he says: yes, I don't like it all anyway. I think that's unwise. Anyway, he can take the position he wants. I'd like to come back to the point of battery storage soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u78	This is a strange misunderstanding, isn't it? It's a corrupt country. If I lie, I lie on commission. Transparency International says this is the most corrupt country in Europe. You make agreements with a corrupt country and you say in that agreement that you would appreciate it if that country would also set some animal welfare requirements. That hasn't been filled out. However, Ukraine's Minister for Agriculture says that they have nothing at all with animal welfare and that they are not going to do so. And then you say that you do not understand that you can oppose it! That's strange, isn't it? The Minister for Agriculture of the country in question says: we have nothing to do with animal welfare and we are not going to do anything with it. And you will say to me: if you are from the Party for Animals, I would of course always agree with what is happening there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u79	It is sad that I am now debating with you tonight a quote that you are getting out of. I can't even check if he said that; maybe he said it or maybe he didn't. The EU Association Treaty has now established that Ukraine must align its legislation with that of the EU, including that in the field of animal welfare. That means that Ukraine 800.... I repeat: 800! EU regulations on food safety, animal and plant health standards and animal welfare should be adopted. You can't just say here that it doesn't matter! Sorry, let's have a serious debate. Of course, Ukraine has many elements of corruption. You know where it comes from! It's a communist country that's become free. It has large elements of corruption, but it has a population that fights against it. For the first time there is an anti-corruption agency and there is action. Is that enough? No! And then you're going to say, yes, I don't care about the 800, because I happen to have heard from a Minister of Agriculture. Let us try to discuss these matters according to the facts. If you have the chance to move ahead with 800 regulations on something that your party is committed to, I would ask you to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u80	I am doing my utmost, but that is difficult if I cannot take the Minister for Agriculture of Ukraine seriously in the sense that he would not be able to control his statements. You're very good at checking this out. I can deliver them to you, too. The improvement in the 800 measures you are talking about is not linked to a timetable in the Association Agreement. The Dutch banks that have invested hundreds of millions in laying batteries and puffing hens have not done so in order to declare these laying batteries and puffing hens factories superfluous. They have every confidence that it can continue until the depreciation period. You know that, don't you? The puffy chickens from those battery cages that are banned in Europe can go this way indefinitely. The association agreement does not say anything about that. So if you say 'let's have a serious debate', I appreciate it, but you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u81	You just don't go into my reasoning. You don't have to. You have every right to question me. For example, for the provisional application of the trade parts of the Association Agreement, Ukrainian eggs, if they met health and food safety requirements, could be placed on the EU market, although import charges restricted that supply. This is different for animal welfare standards. They depend on each country. The EU Association Treaty has now established that Ukraine must align its legislation with that of the European Union. You keep shaking no, but I still have to give you the arguments that are factually correct. It therefore means that Ukraine should adopt 800 EU regulations on food safety, animal and plant health standards and animal welfare. Of course, it doesn't happen overnight. This is not the case in the Netherlands. They need to start with a plan of action. That's part of the association agreement. Ukraine will submit this plan to the SPS Committee no later than three months after the entry into force of the Association Agreement. So there's definitely a date to it. I could go on like this for a while. I really wish that if we have a serious discussion about an important referendum in the Netherlands, this will be done on the basis of the facts. You say there is no timetable. There's a timetable. You say there are no new rules. There are 800 new rules. You say they're corrupt. That's exactly where we're gonna do something about each other. If people say here that I do not want to campaign on the association agreement, I hope I have convinced you that it is at least different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u82	I look forward to the campaign we're going to run. The people will have the floor in a few minutes. My party is going to interfere, as is the cabinet. The Party for Animals is definitely gonna get involved. So that's gonna be a nice and interesting time. In the field of animal welfare and everything around it, I am not an expert in this Chamber; so I am leaving that for what it is. But if we get 800 rules in this area alone, there are many more new rules and regulations that Ukraine has to comply with. So it is true that this is much more than just a trade agreement? If so much of European regulation is to be introduced, does it mean de facto that Ukraine becomes part of the European internal market except that the free movement of workers does not apply and that it does not have the right to vote in the European Union? So when it comes to goods and services and everything that has to do with the market, such as investment, Ukraine is bound by the same rules as all other EU countries. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u83	I've also talked to you a lot about TTIP. The question is how do we ensure that you not only have trade but that it also meets certain standards. That is why, as far as the EU is concerned, it is never just a trade agreement. No one's ever said that either. It is a trade and association agreement, precisely to ensure that, in a number of areas, such as animal welfare and the environment, we do not suddenly have a system in which we are dealing only with trade. It is therefore also a question of a number of conditions which we consider important. And yes, they also have to do with rules that we have, but it has nothing to do with EU membership. It has to do with an alternative, a stabilisation at our very turbulent borders. Besides, you don't have to do that overnight. Of course, they have to start after three months. So there's a little discipline in it. They are going to abide by that, at least that is what I expect, but there is of course also something like a country that is poor, which means that you have certain transitional periods on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u84	Mr Elzinga, I would like to conclude on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u85	My second question on this point, Mr President. I'll try to make it the last question. Maybe that's how it works together. So Ukraine will not become a member of the European Union, but the Ukrainian market will become a full part of the European internal market. Can I sum it up like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u86	No, you can't sum it up like that. There are major elements of comparison with the internal market, but it is not the same as the internal market. A number of standards and values that we have also want to take over Ukraine. This makes it possible to trade with each other in a much more appropriate way, in a way which I believe the SP considers so important, not on the basis of free trade, but on the basis of certain standards and values in terms of products, animal safety and the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u87	Very briefly, Mr Elzinga, because you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u88	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. Does not the 80% of European legislation that Ukraine is going to adopt in the long term cover all the laws and regulations in the areas of economic relations, trade and so on? Even if you say that it is not part of the European internal market, it is de facto part of the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u89	It's gonna be the bottom of the market, of course. Some of the standards we have are going to be discussed with them and they are going to take over. Not one-on-one, not in exactly the same period, but of course it is a real level playing field, while at the same time giving you the necessary instruments. Therefore, something can never be just a trade agreement. You are also helping those countries when it comes to anti-corruption and compliance with standards. That is the very essence of this cooperation. So that is also going to happen in the field of animal welfare, I will say again to Mr Koffeman. I don't think I can convince him, but I'm still trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u90	Mr Ten Hoeve, one question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u91	One question. I am in favour of this association agreement, but it is important to me that Ukraine's government and parliament are also able to comply with the Minsk agreements. Minister Steinmeier was extremely negative this week about the drafting of electoral regulations for Eastern Ukraine. What responsibility do we, as the EU, have as a privileged partner of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u92	We are not now a privileged partner, because we have not yet ratified that association agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u93	That's what we want to be, and that's what they want to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u94	No, but that's a big difference. If you want to have some influence on that and you really commit yourself to Ukraine that is also important. The Netherlands is the only country that cannot do this for the time being. You can't. That's fine. That is a democratic instrument, and I do not think that is a problem either, but that does not, of course, increase your influence. So I cannot say much about that, except that as Foreign Minister, I am convinced that Ukraine should do more to ensure that the elections go well. Let there be no misunderstanding, however, that I am not going to decide exactly what the parliament in Ukraine should do. That's up to you. I would point out, however, that it is important in the light of what you have said here, that the role of the OSCE in ensuring that there are reasonably safe elections is guaranteed. If it is guaranteed, the chances are even greater that Parliament will accept it. That has a bit to do with each other. However, I agree with Mr Ten Hoeve, and also with Mr Steinmeier, that on the side of Ukraine's government and parliament there is still something to be done to get the Minsk II agreements through. So I am certainly not uncritical about Ukraine, quite the contrary. Then I come to a few questions relating to enlargement. Mrs Strik asked whether countries would remain motivated when accession was so far away. I would like to answer that very businesslikely. Whether they're motivated or not, we were just talking about Turkey.The Dutch policy is "strict but fair," so if you want to become part of the club, you have to meet the conditions. And if you meet the conditions, you should be able to join. I might say it a little too simple, but of course it comes down to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u95	Apparently, the Secretary of State misinterpreted my question. We talked about Ukraine, stability and democracy. I have expressed my concerns about the Balkan countries, about how slow and how bad things are going there, which increases their sensitivity to negative external influences. My question was: how can we ensure that we support these countries more, bring them closer to us? I do not mean speeding up the accession process, but supporting them in one way or another, so that they will develop in our direction. How can we further support this development?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u96	Sorry, I misunderstood. Moreover, I believe that the prospect of accession has something to do with that. You can see that in a country such as Macedonia, for example, which is now experiencing a rather profound political crisis. As chairman, I was there the other day. Some European parliamentarians have been able to help solve the internal crisis a little, which means that there are still elections in a certain way. However, I am concerned about the Balkans region. You also see the risk if there is no relationship with Europe. We talk all the time about the fact that many countries are not ready yet, that we cannot conclude an association agreement, that it is all bad, and so on. Quite apart from when a country joins, because I insist that this should simply be conditional. I am in favour of broad support for accession and political commitment. I am therefore taking this as a lesson from the Chamber, and I think it is really important that we engage even more in that region. And whether we like it or not, you can also see that this flow of refugees is destabilizing in the Balkans. That is why it is so important that yesterday, as well as in the contacts within the European Union, there was very intensive cooperation with the Balkan countries. Three weeks ago, we were at dinner with Tusk and Juncker and the leaders of four Balkan countries. We have talked about how we can ensure that, now that they are at last separate and are trying to get back together, this is not exacerbated by all kinds of problems that have to do with this crisis, for example, which is a huge problem for weaker countries. There are other countries that I have great concerns about. Moldova is an example of this. There is still a great deal to be done. We can turn our backs on that, but the only consequence of that is that we are not exporting stability, we are importing instability. That is why it is so important for the European Union, in terms of finance and politics, not only to look at itself, but also to commit itself. I very much agree with Mrs Strik on this. Mr Kuiper is right to ask whether it is wise to expand the EU, when it is not in order to have internal affairs in place. Mr Kuiper is right about that. The Copenhagen criteria also include absorption capacity. This is an element in it. Moreover, enlargement is not on the agenda for the time being. The committee has also said this: you can wait five more years. It has also taken six years for a country like Croatia. In that sense, I agree with Mr Kuiper. Then I come to the important point of standards and values. This is a community of values. Let there be no misunderstanding about that! Whatever we think of the crisis in Macedonia and also in Europe, and of the emotion that everyone has, it's a matter of looking at what we are as a community of values. Let me start with the Dutch initiative for the rule of law. That is quite a sensitive issue in Europe. Let me be honest with you about that. We talk very easily about human rights elsewhere. I always have the paper ready for that. I always get assignments for this: that and that is not good, you have to tell those countries. If they say something about the Netherlands, for example Mr Juncker, it is not good, because none of that is allowed. That's not so credible either. But you also have to look at the rule of law in your own region. That's why we started it. The first state-of-law dialogue in the General Affairs Council took place under the Luxembourg Presidency. This was part of a Dutch initiative. The Presidency had asked Member States to mention both a strong national point and a national one. So we were all just looking at ourselves. Recurrent issues in the dialogue included finding a balance between ensuring the security of citizens and protecting fundamental rights. That was the first attempt. I didn't think it was very satisfying myself. The Dutch Presidency has therefore said: we are going to take the bull by the horns and talk about migration, human rights and foreign policy. That's what's bothering everyone. How are we gonna do that? This is a stress test in every society, not only in Hungary, but also in the Netherlands and Sweden. Everyone's in the middle of a stress test. How do we deal with these different cultures, strangers, insiders and outsiders, or whatever you want to call it, and what does that mean for rights and duties on both sides? We caught that cow by the horns. We started with a seminar, not just a discussion club, but with the Council of Europe and precisely those organisations that the Chamber is talking about. Under our Presidency, we will be the first to raise this subject before the Rule of Law meeting. This has not solved the matter at once, because a number of specific points have also been asked. I have already spoken about Poland in previous debates. The most important thing is that the committee is the guardian of the treaties and has raised this issue. The Dutch government supports that. The Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, is now working on this. I believe that one of these days it comes with a judgment, assessment or evaluation. I have taken note of the fact that there will be a draft opinion from the Venice Commission on the functioning of the Constitutional Court in Poland. The first reports are worrying. It is important that Poland cooperates constructively with the Venice Commission and the European Commission in order to find an answer to the situation. The Presidency can sometimes play a good role in this too. I remember when that happened, so around Christmas, and things didn't go so well in Poland, I called the Polish minister and asked him: what are you doing there? You got the letter from the committee, didn't you? He said: yes, but no one is speaking to me. It was. So it's also about making sure there's a dialogue. You can judge a country, but you have to make sure you hear and hear again. I therefore believe that the procedure through the Council of Europe is a sensible one. We will have to wait and see what exactly is in it; as far as Poland is concerned, I cannot anticipate that. But we take this seriously. Then I'll come to France. The French Government has declared a state of emergency and strengthened national security measures. The French Government itself has always stressed the need to find a response to terrorism within the limits of the rule of law. It is an important challenge for all Member States to strike a good balance between prevention and repression, between security and the protection of privacy in decision-making and in strengthening measures following the Paris attacks. I am also working to ensure that a careful assessment is made of the proportionality of the measure per measure. This also applies at the time of the emergency. The role of the French Parliament is essential, because it must of course be democratically legitimised. On transparency, I would like to say that the Netherlands has taken a number of initiatives. Given the time, I won't name them all. This is mainly about trialogues, because people think they are the least transparent. They are also often of a confidential nature when it comes to a legislative process between institutions. However, you can give more insight into the trialogue process and its outcomes. As part of the Interinstitutional Agreement on Better Law-Making, the EU institutions have agreed to work on this. By the way, we're going to sign that in one or two weeks. Under our Presidency, proposals will be made on how this can then be implemented. The same applies to the intention to submit a proposal for a mandatory transparency register. The Commission published a consultation on this subject by the Committee on 4 March. The First Chamber can also participate in this consultation. This means that the proposal will be submitted during or just after our Presidency. Mr Kuiper asked me a question about strengthening the role of national parliaments. The role of national parliaments in controlling the government's involvement in the Council is very important to me. That is a national matter. The COSAC allows you to exchange best practices at this point. In some countries things are better than here, but in most countries things are worse. We're kind of ahead of you. At EU level, strengthening the role of national parliaments is about the role of national parliaments in the European decision-making process. It is also about the Kieswet. I thought the PVV Group was asking for that. It is a proposal made by a number of Members of the European Parliament. That proposal was adopted. The Dutch Government has serious doubts about this, particularly as regards subsidiarity and proportionality. That doesn't mean they shouldn't interfere at all. It is about European elections, so it is best to organise a number of things on a number of points, such as the date. I understand all that, but I agree that it should not go much further. We are talking about freedom of association and freedom of assembly. Political parties have the freedom to give their own interpretation. That even applies to things like gender. As important as we think it is, in the end it is a responsibility of political parties and not of the European Parliament or of European governments. Mr Schrijver spoke about the Commission's clustering. I think it's starting to work. I find it difficult to say anything about that. The Commission is quite large, because there is someone in it from each Member State. It is a good thing that there is clustering, as we are now doing in the field of foreign intelligence. I note that the High Representatives, together with the other Commissioners, are much more strategic than they used to be and that they are not just working on their own agendas. There is more to be said about this, but in view of the time, I would simply like to judge it. For example, on the issue of migration, we have huge advantages of the cluster approach starting to work. These are partnerships with West Africa, the Horn of Africa, Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. It's about external border surveillance. It concerns the Balkans, which Commissioner Hahn said a few words about. It is also a question of development cooperation. They are now on the same page to ensure that a dent is struck in a package of butter. In that sense, I see that as positive. Mr Schaap asked me about the harmonization of education. I think that at the heart of his speech is the need for education to be better aligned with a rapidly changing labour market and society. He therefore felt that education curricula were sufficiently equipped and that citizens were equipped with a balanced set of skills. Given the limited competence of the European Union in the field of education, harmonisation of national policies is not the issue. However, there is an exchange of experience as a basis for effective national reforms of education systems. There are several elements, but I think Mr Schaap knows them better than I do. In the long term, this will strengthen the Bologna process. We try to do the same with structures and diplomas, for example through ECTS credits. I have to admit, I don't know that abbreviation. It's here on paper. I assume this is important. I may be able to give further information to the Chamber in the second term. In the area of MBO, the system of transparency and quality assurance exists. In addition, there is the European Qualifications Framework for both areas to make qualification levels transparent and comparable. I'll be on the EOM. The possible future creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office was laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon at the time. The negotiations are well advanced. There is broad political support in the Council and in the European Parliament for the establishment of the EPPO. The arrival of the EPPO does not affect the Commission's existing tools for tackling EU fraud. The competence of the EPPO will focus solely on criminal forms of fraud, as defined in the so-called PIF Directive, which is currently under review. This proposal for a directive and the draft regulation on the EPPO expressly leave the possibility for other forms of enforcement open. In setting up the EPPO, criminal sanctioning will be the culmination of a set of measures to combat EU fraud. However, the creation could improve the fight against criminal fraud in the EU. We are also concerned about improving the fight against EU fraud in Member States, which we must be able to rely on. This is also desirable for a number of Member States as little priority is now given to them. But again, the arrival of the EPPO does not affect the instruments already in place. Mr Schaap also asked about the admission of certain funds. This is partly regulated at European level. This concerns plant protection products and veterinary medicinal products. Plant protection products and active substances should first be assessed for potential risks to humans, animals and the environment before they can be placed on the market. The authorisation of veterinary medicinal products may be applied for at national, regional and European level. We want to keep it consciously national. In this way, we can also take account of the specific national circumstances. For example, in the case of pesticides, account should be taken of wind speed and drinking water from surface water. A completely different subject is anti-Semitism. I find the development of anti-Semitism in European society, including Dutch society, worrying. It is a phenomenon that primarily affects the Jewish community itself, but essentially affects society as a whole. Everyone in the Netherlands must feel free and safe. I hope that the position of the cabinet is clear: anti-Semitism will not be tolerated in our society. Vice Prime Minister Asscher has already said a number of things about this. The cabinet tackles anti-Semitism and other forms of discrimination in close cooperation with all kinds of civil society organisations. Of course, we hold regular dialogue with Jewish organisations and in particular with civil society organisations in general. There are regular meetings and round tables on anti-Semitism. This is mainly about anti-Semitism among young people, which is a concern. We also have the interreligious dialogue, the so-called Knight's Hall Dialogue. We are also doing this at EU level. The Netherlands strives to establish European best practices in the fight against discrimination and anti-Semitism. I'm coming up on the Fourth Track package. The trilogues with the Commission and the European Parliament on the market pillar of the Fourth Railway Package are still under way, I say to Mr Kuiper. I cannot yet anticipate the outcome of the negotiations. The Netherlands' commitment is that the negotiations on the market pillar with the European Parliament will still be concluded under our Presidency, if any, without wishing to depart from the essence of the general approach already taken by the Council under the Luxembourg Presidency. I have three more questions to answer. In the context of the questions previously asked about Draghi's policy, another has been asked about pension funds. The current ECB policy has a depressing effect on interest rates, but it is not possible to quantify exactly how it affects the interest rate forward structure relevant to pension funds. For example, the interest rate at which pension funds value their liabilities is determined not only by ECB policy but also by supply and demand factors in the market. The ECB's policy also supports the economy, which also benefits pension funds and their participants. In that sense, you cannot set it digitally. Those effects should also be considered, but they are also difficult to quantify. The low interest rate environment is an external one that also affects pension funds. That is indeed a difficult situation. The Secretary of State looks at what it means to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u97	Is the Minister still coming to the role, or rather the 'non-role', of the European Union vis-à-vis pensions, given that insurers very much want pension funds to be in the same regime when they are very different animals? They're different animals. I asked a question about this at the beginning of my speech. Otherwise, I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u98	Would it be okay if I returned to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u99	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u100	I had just understood the question something else, for which I apologize. I will answer the question in the second term. Mr Koffeman asked a question on the harmonization of excise duties. A proposal by the European Commission to increase the minimum rates for fuel taxes and energy taxes has not received the necessary unanimous support from EU Member States. The Netherlands strongly supported the proposal to increase these minimum rates. After four years of in vain negotiation, the European Commission withdrew the proposal last summer. We regret that. The Netherlands is now actively working in the EU to get a level playing field in a different way. Then there is the question of the OSF's Eurobonds. The cabinet's position is well known. Eurobonds and fiscal transfers within the Euro area are not at issue at the moment. It's not a wrong instrument in itself. You might want to think about it for once, but we do not think it is the right approach to speed up structural reforms in Europe. The priority is to get the economy back on track. This is about creating growth and jobs. We have talked about this earlier this evening. In addition, we must prevent risk sharing from leading to lower incentives to do exactly what is necessary in that context. There will be an opinion from Mario Monti on the question of own resources. For us, the reform of the European budget is an absolute priority. We have organised a seminar in the Lower House on this subject following an initiative by Mr Pechtold and we have also made it a presidency discussion. This will be followed up at the General Council in April. In fact, it is about something that irritates us all a little bit, even a little bit, namely the lack of political priorities, flexibility and therefore accountability of the European budget. Very good ideas have come out of that. They're moving on now. As far as the question of own resources is concerned, Mr Monti's working group is looking at specific solutions on this point. We await the findings of the working group. Okay, let's talk about taxes. I agree that country-by-country reporting fits well in the context of transparency. The Netherlands is in favour of this. We have also adapted our policies to it. Today, Ecofin adopted the proposal to introduce country-by-country reporting between tax administrations. The automatic exchange of tax rulings between Member States was already adopted in November 2015. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its In April, the Commission will present an impact assessment and possibly a proposal for public country-by-country reporting. It is not correct that 1% of companies are covered by the reporting obligation. That percentage is much higher. It's 10%, which accounts for 90% of global sales. This is a serious change in Dutch policy, but I think it is going to be a real dent in a pack of butter. Then there is the question of a very different order, namely Tunisia. As a Europe, you may fail in a lot of things, but it is my deep conviction that, even if it has been said for years, the strengthening of the European common peace and security policy, but also defence policy, is a priority. The Netherlands has not always been historically in favour of this, but fortunately that has changed over the years. We're the forerunners of it now. We also want this to get much more hands and feet at the end of our presidency, not only in the field of security, but also in the field of defence, in cooperation with the NATO summit in Warsaw in June. However, prevention remains the most important. Tunisia is actually the only country where, between secular and religious, between democratic and the hope of the Arab Spring, there is a positive movement, but that process is in great danger. Read today's newspapers about the attacks of ISIS in southern Tunisia. That is extremely serious. Last week, the Tunisian Prime Minister came to visit us. We have also looked at this issue as President, but sometimes things are just too slow. They say they're going to help the country, but how long will it take? The problem is happening now. These include trade preferences and economic measures, but also cooperation in the fields of border control, combating terrorism and deradicalisation. The most difficult decision I've made in times, crazy enough, seems to me to be a very simple one, the travel advice for Tunisia. We made that negative because of the security situation. It had to be, because we have a responsibility to the Dutch citizens, but it does mean that, because other countries do too, an entire sector with a lot of people is gone. It then leads to unemployment. We're doing some business there. We provided financial support in 2015. There are also a number of projects. I may also be able to inform the Chamber in writing. We also provide macro-financial support. The European Investment Bank has provided 500 million for investment projects. More can happen to the trade, but sometimes it is also training people. That may sound crazy, because of course it is about interests, but the negotiations on trade have become very complicated. Tunisians are trained in the Netherlands. Finally, something about research and innovation. The European Union has given Tunisia priority over Horizon 2020. That seems to me to be a good element in achieving better prevention, but it can be done better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u101	The Minister often talked about 'finally', so I thought: perhaps the subject will come. I have made a number of critical comments about the EU's attitude towards Israel and its double standards. Will the Minister come back to that, as will the issue of labelling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u102	I disagree. We don't measure with double standards. I have spoken about Turkey and about human rights violations in Syria. I do not want to compare them with what is happening in Israel. I would point out that the occupied territories are illegal territory. This means, in the context of consumer information, that the Netherlands also applies the European Union Regulation in this area. I think that's right. The Dutch Government also stands for this, but that has nothing to do with anti-Israel or a boycott. It has to do with the fact that land is occupied there. That's illegal. This means that consumer information is important when it comes to products coming from those areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u103	Of course, the EU does not take direct boycott measures. That is how clever one is, but there is a climate in which a boycott can thrive. For Israel, this also happens as such. Do European leaders not see that they simply undermine the role that the EU could play in the Middle East peace process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u104	That is not the case. I know that Israel does not have great support for this, but the talks I have with the Foreign Minister, Netanyahu, in his dual role, President Abbas and others, are not negatively affected by this. I always find it very difficult when someone says that that way the climate is created to... No, a measure is being taken that fits in with the fact that there is a piece of land illegally occupied. Consumers are entitled, on the basis of a previous decision in the EU, to organise it. That is what Mr Van Dijk should appeal to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u105	I noticed that Germany, among other things, simply ignored the so-called interpretative communication from the European Commission on labelling. Why didn't the Netherlands choose that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u106	Because we do not ignore European regulations. That wouldn't be good. Germany's not gonna do that either. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u107	We are now ready for the second term of office. I call Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u108	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed answers to the questions raised and the free way in which he has gone along the various themes. I found that extremely enlightening. I have a few comments to make. I think it is good that the Dutch Government, if I listen carefully to the Minister, is also committed to the referendum on Ukraine. We are exporting stability instead of importing instability. The referendum committee has provided budgetary resources for the campaign. I understand that it has been mainly guided by a bottom-up approach. Maybe that's a little too literal. That is why it is good to hear that top-down action is also being taken from the cabinet. Then Turkey. The Minister's response calls for a number of comments. For the purpose of negotiating with Turkey from a position of strength, the EU does not currently have a position in force; for all kinds of reasons, it is crucial that we have control over our own borders and that we establish a strong, credible return policy. In this way we ourselves direct two solid pillars so that we can say no in the negotiations with Turkey even more easily when we do not like something. I think that more attention should be paid to this in the discussions over the coming weeks, both with Turkey and with our EU partners. When you talk about the European Union in these General European Reviews, you can talk about the tension between insurers and pension funds, about battery cages, about Frontex, about credit facilities for SMEs, in short, you can talk about Gott und die Welt, because everything fits in one way or another. Nevertheless, I think it is good to consider at such a time where we are actually going with the European Union. We used to say that the nation state was coming to an end and that the European Union was perfectly suited to it as a substitute. It's not anymore. In our entire geopolitical environment with the emergence of new states, states do indeed play a role in the world. And then there is the question of what the European Union's perspective is. It seems to me that defined boundaries are part of this. I think that's part of that, too, of a sense of community. What's that? That is a combination of identity, a story/narrative and standards. Those three things will have to be shaped in one way or another in a European construction. The Minister says: it's different; you need to talk about Europe 3.0. He spoke of constructive engineering. Destructive engineering doesn't exist, so I understand that something has to be built up. It would be interesting to know what. Before the summer we will have another debate in which foreign policy and defence play an important role. The Minister has not answered my questions in this area. I am not grieving about that, because we'll meet again in a few months' time. And that is what we are going to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u109	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed answer or general consideration of European integration and the problems we are currently facing. There's a lot of talk about crisis. In the most literal, etymologically correct sense, "crisis" also has something in it that you have already passed the valley and actually already have a view on how to do it differently. I think that the way the Minister deals with this European issue is appropriate to the crisis we are in. You can also say with a certain cheer that it challenges us all the more and that we see ways. In this respect, we are very much in agreement: we should not make it worse than it is. I am very pleased with the response to the referendum on Ukraine. The Minister has made it clear once again what we are all at risk of rejecting this agreement. That is quite a lot, and we are right about that. I have spoken about the external borders of Schengen. As I said in the case of interruption, we have abolished internal borders and then given the external borders to the Member States. That is what we are doing now. Something has to be done. There is already half a promise that something is being done with the blue borders. I would like to hear that the Minister would look at how we are going to monitor the green external borders within the framework of the Presidency. We must prevent all sorts of uncoordinated actions from happening, as at present at internal borders. There's a lot going on. The Baltic States are already in the process. If there's more pressure coming from outside, it's probably gonna expand. Will the Minister promise the Chamber that he will indicate during the presidency how this has been continued by the Dutch Government? This can also be done in a written exchange of views. What initiatives has the Netherlands taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u110	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. He discussed all three issues I had also raised: migration, financial and economic affairs and identity. He has dealt with a great many issues in detail. He's taken us into a dialogue on this. My group appreciates that. I would like to hear from the Minister how the Dutch Government has opposed the plans to build and monitor the external borders. This has been discussed since 2004. Perhaps that would be better in writing for the progress of the debate and for the mood in the sitting. We are now having a discussion that we should not be late and that we should not negotiate from a hostage position in distress, but from our strength. Let us learn from the period behind us. Where have we left things and why? Maybe there were legitimate reasons, maybe the time wasn't right, etc. etc. I'd like to see something about that sometime. The Minister says about the talks with Turkey that he wants to see how that works over the next ten days. I would say: let us wait for that and not speculate about it. Constructive engineering appeals to me on its own. I have always worked in technical companies, but craftsmanship is also accompanied by vision, design and architecture. You have to know what you want to build. Even in Bob the Builder's animation, that's taught. That's where the "wir purchase tie" comes from, by the way. My group welcomes the fact that the cabinet is a very clear term in the House of Representatives when it has taken up its position in relation to the association agreement. We have had to wait for it, but I am extremely glad that it has happened and that it will enable the debate to take place with the Dutch electorate. My main question was: do we understand the signs of time? I congratulate the Minister on the way in which he presents the challenges of today and proposes solutions to them. Of course, on a number of fronts it goes too slowly. On a number of fronts, we would like to see a number of things different. It is not for me to review the debate, but I am going home more cheerfully than I started the debate, because there is quite a consensus in this House on the European project. From the point of view D66 has on this, that is positive. I wish the Minister, also a little on the Dutch side of the Presidency, success in the conclusion of this and in the many projects that are still ahead, in particular in the budget of the European Union, however technical that always sounds. We all know that if you cannot control that, you will not be able to pursue a good Community policy at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u111	Mr. Chairman. It was interesting to take stock of the state of the European Union with the Minister and colleagues. Despite all the gloom and torment, some of us in Europe have fortunately managed to keep the image of the beautiful princess Europe in mind. It was inspiring that Mr Van Dijk of the SGP recalled that Europe looked so desirable that she was inciting Zeus to adultery. It is indeed important to keep a close eye on the spirit of Europe, not only the Europe that is as inevitable or indispensable as the rain, but also the Europe that stands on the brink of shared European values. This will certainly bring about a stress test in a number of European countries, as the Minister said, but that is always for the purpose of better guaranteeing citizens' rights. That is why I think it is so important that the outcome of the Ukraine referendum should be yes. This can help to extend the European values we have talked about to the entire population of Ukraine, which is a European people as a whole. And that is why it is so exciting whether we can bring the negotiations with Turkey to a successful conclusion. I am not going to speculate on this with Mr Backer, but I think that the successful conclusion of the negotiations with Turkey in the coming weeks is crucial. This is very important not only for the refugee problem, but also for us, for Turkey and for the prospect of a democratic rule of law. Then, hopefully, Turkey's association will also be able to develop further. Finally. The Minister gave a rather liberal explanation of the concept of the ever closer union, in the sense that it does not mean more, but certainly no less, than that the European peoples must increasingly come together. I am a little concerned whether Prime Minister Cameron will get away with such an explanation in the United Kingdom. I would like to hear a brief response from the Minister, but once again, thank you for the excellent answer to the questions. We wish the government every success during this presidency. Indeed, many of the issues we have discussed today will also be discussed in the debate on international security on 19 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u112	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions, but that was also the only positive thing I am going to bring in. It's a long day in here. Outside, the people are screaming for less EU, but that voice is not heard here. The people in the country want less EU, but within it too many groups are arguing for more EU, and not just more EU, no, for rogue states like Turkey, leading dictator Erdogan, who despises his own people. What he would have planned for us Westerners will be many times worse. That's coming to us this summer. The VVD proves time and time again that it overtakes D66 left on its way to the European superstate. The contribution of the VVD group, through our colleague Schaap, was probably dictated by Juncker himself. A pattern at the VVD, because Rutte does nothing but talk Angela Merkel to the mouth. The importance of the Netherlands is subordinate. That's also the pattern in this cabinet. The importance of Ukraine, Turkey, Verhofstadt, the gang of five self-appointed EU presidents: all this and everyone else will be taken into account by this minister again tonight, except for the Dutch interest. That's as sad as it is scandalous. Today we were able to learn in the media about Rutte's total capitulation to Turkey's demands. The Dutch Prime Minister opens the door wide to Turkey, not because of good behavior, but as a reward for bad behavior. What message does this minister send to other countries that want to join? I would like another response from the Minister. Democratic, constitutional reforms have so far always been a prerequisite for EU membership. How can the leadership of a shared community of values still be taken seriously if countries like Turkey can blackmail themselves in this way? If we do not respect our Western values, others will certainly not. This cabinet did not appear to be up to the Turkish challenge. Is that from good faith, or is it from malice? It knows no bounds. This cabinet rolls out the red carpet for Turkey's accession to the EU, but Rutte remains vague to the citizen, as always. That is why I ask the Minister whether he can answer the following question with a simple yes or no: is it in the interest of the Netherlands that Turkey should ever join the EU? And Minister, where is your border? Does the government fully recognise the Turkish genocide on the Armenian people? I'd like another response from the Minister. There have been several talks about European standards and values, but this does not seem to apply to the genocide of 1.5 million Christian Armenians. This recognition is not a condition in the negotiations with Turkey. This cabinet is dropping European standards and values very quickly. I'd like a response from the Minister. If the Turks demand this, will the Netherlands sacrifice the occupied part of Cyprus, as Chamberlain once sacrificed Sudetenland? A deal with Turkey is not the solution, but the beginning of a new problem. It is a pact with the devil, and it is the harbinger of an unprecedented Islamic invasion, which will make our continent unrecognizably change, and not for the better, I say to the cultural relays in this Chamber. In conclusion, my group notes that this cabinet must go home. The policy of this cabinet leads to the cultural and economic bankruptcy of the Netherlands and Europe. I would like to send the Minister back to the cabinet with this message: be ashamed of you, step down and immediately write new elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u113	Mr. Chairman. I started my first term with great concerns about European cooperation. I discussed major contradictions within Europe and various crises, and I ended with a request for more cooperation, through, among other things, the Council of Europe. I made specific suggestions for this and also for the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. I am pleased that the Minister is open to a Council-of-Europe summit on the future of this treaty organisation and I encourage him to pass this on to his European colleagues. I have also noted once again the support for the legal personality of the OSCE and the protection of employees on the ground, for which I thank you. There is probably a breakthrough with Turkey, but no agreement yet. In due course, we will examine and assess the concrete measures and proposals. This also applies to concrete proposals for strengthening Frontex. The agreement with the United Kingdom on the Brexit package, or perhaps the non-brexit package, is, as far as my group is concerned, a compromise that is not very helpful. Whether the United Kingdom is satisfied with it will have to be seen in a referendum. It could have been a clearer emergency brake on an ever closer union for everyone. It would have done us justice, with retroactive effect, to the European Constitution in 2005. As regards the association agreement with Ukraine, I would like to point out in this second term that integrating the Ukrainian market into the European market may not formally mean EU membership, but may eventually lead to very real demand from Ukraine. If we have to adopt all EU legislation in the economic field and in the market organisation, why should we not discuss it? Then the ball is with us. Are we going to keep Ukraine as a wing-west, or are we going to have our own European democratic values? In the end, this may well prove to be a step towards membership, even if nothing has yet been agreed on. However, that is not the question now. Even without this question, I indicated in the first period why we believe that no is three times better. I understand that the Minister, responsible for the Dutch signature, is in favour of the agreement, but I also appreciate his support for the referendum as an instrument, his support for the forthcoming campaign and his appeal to all parties to make themselves heard. Then it will be a celebration of democracy. As far as the EU-Ukraine Association Treaty is concerned, it is now really only on 6 April that the people are getting involved. I thank the Minister and the colleagues for the debate, but I do share a bit of the questions of CDA spokesperson Knapen. What exactly do you mean by an EU 3.0? In any case, it is very encouraging that the Minister also believes that there is not one form of European cooperation, but that diversity is possible and perhaps even more beautiful. If my group has become clear in recent years, then it is that if we in this Chamber and other representatives of the people in other countries do not think of where we all want to go in Europe and with European cooperation, this cooperation will lead its own lives and will come to terms with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u114	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. The Minister began his speech with some general reflections. He indicated that the Commission has become more political and that the national reflex is always a risk. We share that wholeheartedly. My group is very much in favour of the Commission becoming more political, of the fact that European decision-making is much more focused on what political choices we are going to make and where we really want to go with the European Union. Perhaps that is also meant by the other speakers. Member States should not always try to get out of it from their own national interests, but instead should exchange views on the content: should it be more social, should it be neoliberal? That is what the European Union should be talking about. We have the idea that this could well go hand in hand with a more political approach and that it should not mean that national interests will prevail. In fact, national interests could in this way coincide with the European interest. We welcome the fact that the Minister is actively and positively advocating a vote in favour of the referendum on Ukraine. We assume that this will also be visible in the public debate. I understand he's not going to speculate about a negative outcome, just like the Brexit. However, I would urge that a plan B be drawn up internally at referenda and that a strategy be drawn up. The Minister was relatively brief about the refugees: we have to do this in order to avoid humanitarian emergencies. The Minister is perhaps more aware than anyone in this Chamber of the fact that most refugees are elsewhere in the world and are being received there. Even less than 10% are trying to get to the Western countries. The same applies to Syrian refugees who stayed in neighbouring countries up to six months ago, but when conditions were so badly forced to seek refuge in Europe. Let us move away from the idea that everyone wants to come to Europe and that we must therefore immediately close all borders. The conditions there need to be improved, which means that many refugees will no longer feel the pressure to move on. I think it's important to say that more clearly. My specific questions have not been answered. I hope that the Minister will be able to say a little more about it in his second term. What is the EU doing to ensure that Syrians can continue to flee their country? It is a very great concern that they get stuck there while those bombings continue. What are we doing to improve the Greek asylum procedure? The Minister was right to say that we should not now send asylum seekers back to Greece. That shows exactly how important it is to improve the procedure there. What are we doing to tackle and implement the redistribution agreements? Now people are stuck there without this redistribution coming off the ground. And what exactly are we going to do about resettlement? The Minister says it's still under negotiation. I also understand that it is not quite clear. Is he really going to be committed to sustainable and more binding resettlement arrangements? The idea of "one crossing, one refugee" will, of course, not produce a sustainable resettlement policy. I'd like to get more precise information on that. I was really shocked by the idea that asylum seekers could not even apply for asylum here. I'll stick with that. I have just looked again at the correspondence I had with Dijkhoff on this subject, for example the letter of 12 October, in which he says very clearly that an application for asylum must always be examined. That procedure shall assess whether there is a safe third country. In that case, the application for asylum is declared inadmissible, but an asylum seeker can always appeal against it. That must therefore be refuted. I'm still assuming it is. The Minister says: that is the Greek procedure, we have nothing to do with it. He may miss it, but we have a European asylum system and the rules of the Greek asylum procedure must comply with European rules. Perhaps the Minister is not fully prepared, but we would like to be clear. We are also very pleased to be given the undertaking that once that agreement has been defined and worked out, the Chamber will be informed of what it is all about. The Minister keeps saying that we need to apply the Schengen rules again. It also includes the possibility of a request for asylum when a person knocks on the Schengen border. Finally, I have a point about Access Info Europe. My group maintains that that judgment is currently being interpreted very narrowly by the Council. There will be an evaluation of its application. I had a very explicit request to the Minister to consider whether parliaments could share the documents with experts, so that they would not have to know everything themselves, but, for example, a Meijers committee or other experts could help the parliamentarians. This seems to me to be very crucial for strengthening the role of parliaments. Fortunately, our cabinet is in favour of this. I have not heard an answer to my question about the climate. To what extent will the Netherlands work on tightening the climate targets? If I missed that, I'd love to hear it. Otherwise, I'd like to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u115	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group also thanks the Minister for the answers and for the substantive debate we are having here. The debate began with a concerned tone of division in Europe, but was also characterized by hope and the search for ways of hope: how can Europe continue? I thought it was special that there was so much talk about different speeds and perhaps a preference for deepening rather than broadening or enlargement, also as a result of Mr Knapen's contribution. It has been mentioned here many times, but never so explicit, concrete and public that it could also be a path of hope. The European Union is seen by my party as a cooperation between communities, peoples if you like, but it must have a certain quality. In this context, I would also like to say a few words about the concept of a value community, which has passed a number of times today. It is said that Europe is a value community, but values naturally require maintenance. It is also about the quality of these values. It has rightly been said that if we talk about this, it could be a stress test. Those European communities who want something to do with each other must be able to talk about it. The fact that these values are not of course the basis was also one of the lines in my speech. It is getting more exciting as you move on to Eastern Europe and encounter attitudes of xenophobia and unwillingness to participate in the reception of the flow of refugees. I encourage the Minister to carry out this discussion in the context of the state-of-the-art dialogue. Then something about the talks with Turkey. I have indeed said how important it is that they take place from a position of strength. I still do not find it entirely credible that talks on Turkey's accession are actually being conducted in the context of negotiations on another matter. The negotiations are about another matter. We want to be able to talk to Turkey about the solution of the refugee problem. From this point of view, the question now also arises to discuss the accession criteria with Turkey. If we do that this way, there's something unbelievable in there. I would like to reiterate my concern and underline what a number of colleagues have already said, namely that this position requires a number of choices and a number of solutions on the European side. Then there is transparency and the role of national parliaments. I asked what kind of analysis is underneath and when we have reached the situation we would like to achieve. The Minister says that transparency is being worked on and recognises its importance. That's about it, working on it. What exactly is happening? I would like to have a more precise analysis on this point. Why is this necessary and why are we doing this? As far as my group is concerned, it is a question of putting the national parliaments in a really good position again. I didn't talk about Ukraine in the first place. We also supported the association agreement in this Chamber at the time. Our view on this is in line with what the Minister has said. In this way, the Christian Union is also looking at the forthcoming referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u116	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. I do think he should have the debate a little serious, as he said to me. If something is being debated that the Minister does not agree with, he says that he cannot control it at all and that we should remain a little serious with each other. Let's do that. Ukraine's Minister of Agriculture, Oleksey Pavlenko, has said in De Boerderij "That's a Dutch magazine that is definitely in the magazine rack at the Ministry of Agriculture" of 7 March 2015: we have so many rules to comply with and there are so many serious issues, for example how to prevent the introduction of unsafe unhealthy products into the European market and how to set up a certified safe sanitary policy, that we are not yet going to receive any questions about animal welfare. He says: "Our country is at war, we have refugees, we have lost 20% of our economy and the new cabinet has to cut the budget hugely. We have no choice but to return to the base." In other words, the Minister says that he is quite clear about this: you are setting 800 rules and with all these 800 rules we really cannot do anything, because we have other problems on our hands. Of course, it can be very good that he has other problems on his mind. This means, however, that you cannot easily associate with such a country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u117	I thank Mr Koffeman for bringing me back to a former favourite magazine of mine, De Boerderij. In the meantime, thanks to his reference, I have also read that interview and understand it slightly differently. It is primarily De Boerderij of 31 March 2015, so far ahead of the provisional entry into force of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. He is indeed saying what Mr Koffeman quotes a little more fully in the second term: we have a lot of problems on our mind, first of all, of course, to be able to produce healthy food according to European standards; that is our priority now and then all the other things come. You can't infer from that that this 37-year-old minister, trained in the Netherlands at Nyenrode and still with a great love for double-fla, as he says in De Boerderij, doesn't want to worry about animal welfare? I actually agree with the Minister that it is precisely the conclusion of the Association Agreement and, I would add, its provisional entry into force from 1 January 2016 that bring much better focus on the promotion of animal welfare. Does Mr Koffeman agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u118	No. Maybe we read another De Boerderij number. I understand that Mr Schrijver read that of 31 March. I read that from March 7th. Maybe we could switch places so we can see what he said in there and what he said in mine. It's obvious that this gentleman said that animal welfare is not a priority for them. Let me put it this way. I'm going to end with Mr Schrijver and say that Mr animal welfare would have been a priority. Then we will get to the Minister for Economic Affairs of Ukraine, with whom we have conducted the negotiations on the association agreement. He left a month ago protesting the slow pace of reform in his country. He complains that his ministry, the Ministry of Economic Affairs in Ukraine, has been hijacked by corrupt forces. I'm just trying to quote as accurately as possible. It wasn't De Boerderij in this case, but it's also a serious medium that I got this out of. It's actually been in all the newspapers. Let's get back to Mr. Koziuk. That is the billionaire, chicken farmer and also head of the logistics service of the Ukrainian army. That gentleman has in the management of his company MHP a Belgian and a Luxembourger specializing in tax avoidance. They have ensured that MHP has transferred EUR 664 million from the Ukrainian treasury to Cyprus. That is good, because in Cyprus you pay only 5% tax and Ukraine and Cyprus have a treaty to prevent double taxation. So if you have already paid 5% tax in Cyprus, you will no longer have to pay taxes in Ukraine. It is quite difficult to be associated with such a country and to make agreements with such a country about animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u119	Just for the sake of completeness. We have just added the text: "At the moment, we are trying to focus on European standards and European regulation. We have many conditions to meet. If the animal welfare demand comes, we'll look into it. But that's not the issue right now." That's what the minister said a year ago. So you can't infer from that that he doesn't give a damn and that he makes a disposable gesture, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u120	He says, "We'll look at that, but that's not the issue right now."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u121	It's not on the table right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u122	I have just explained that a company that slaughters 335 million chickens a year and has just opened up is not going to change for the time being into the most corrupt country in Europe. Assume that's what you're gonna do. I would like to put a good bottle of wine on that with Mr Schaap and I would like to see that it will then meet European standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u123	Mr. Chairman. Once Albert Einstein said: one does not need to understand the world, one just has to find one's place in it. I would like to add that the latter, too, is quite a job. That is why I would like to congratulate the Minister on the way in which he has dealt with many different issues. Let me make a few brief comments. The Minister's intro was very nice and realistic: not dreaming about a united states of Europe and things like that, but tackling concrete problems. I think that's a very good starting point. Whatever appealed to me is this. The Minister is not guilty of putting people who do not expect the full benefits of more Europe very easily away as angry people, xenophobic people, fearful people and so on. That is not right. With such an attitude, we are creating a gap between many decent citizens with concerns and administrative power. In fact, such a way of acting and describing sentiments is also a form of populism, even if it is supposedly at a high level. I note with regret that the Minister sees the openings necessary to reopen the accession negotiations with Turkey and to open chapters. Maybe it sounds harder than I actually mean, but it also has something cowardly somewhere, because I think that is farther away from content than ever before. In my opinion, we're still creating something of a sausage that you're telling that country, when you know it's never gonna be able to meet the requirements. We are keeping Turkey on a leash, with which we only give extra food to certain anti-Western forces. I was pleased with the seriousness expressed by the Minister when it comes to tackling anti-Semitism, including at European level. We would very much like to be kept informed of the results achieved there. I was less satisfied with the answers to questions about Israel and the labelling. In my view, it continues to be a double measure: we deal with Turkey, which violates human rights on all sides, Palestinians receive large amounts of money, Abas continues with his hate speech, suicide attacks are glorified and Palestinian state television encourages hatred and anti-Semitism. Israel, while being hit by terror, even today, gets labels on its pants that can just end up with a boycott. That's the upside-down world. Actually, I find that embarrassing. There are 800 European regulations on animal welfare. I think there's a lot to be done about that. I'd like a little more ambition there. Finally, I wish the Minister a great deal of wisdom in his vast responsibilities package.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u124	You spoke of hate speech and Israel. Have you read Israeli newspapers and newspapers recently? Don't you classify them as hate speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u125	There are sometimes extreme things that Jews say, but that is not a government policy, such as state television and the education system in the Palestinian territories. They're packed with anti-Semitic statements and so on. I really want to make a difference between what is sometimes noticed by certain extreme individual Jews and a completely screwed-up system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u126	What if those extreme individuals are in the government or in the top of government parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u127	I have never heard Israeli Heads of Government propose to name squares after suicide bombers. No, the equation is totally flawed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u128	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his very open approach, particularly in the beginning with a sharp analysis and overview, which I would almost call a helicopter view. Mr Knapen spoke about a number of issues. Using his words I could say: it was a kind of kaleidoscope, something for elck. He mentioned the pension system. That is ten million participants and a private system, with deferred pay. My group felt that Brussels should not interfere with this. That is what I want to say in this European debate. Because when we talk about what Brussels should and should not do, this is something that should be kept far away from Brussels. I ask the Dutch Government: watch your case and ours! When I hear the Minister today, I am quite confident that he would not have replied in the first period. I have, of course, followed the debate on Ukraine over the last few weeks. I found the Minister very clear on his point of view. As a former Secretary of State for Finance, I am very pleased that in the port of Odessa, the Minister is well aware of this. In a few months' time, the customs service has carried out state-of-the-art improvements by means of modern means. As far as Tunisia is concerned, the Minister mentioned that he might provide the Chamber with an overview of measures for this country. I would very much appreciate that. Last week's visit by the Prime Minister gave me every reason to do so. What else can be done from Europe and above all from the Netherlands? The Prime Minister of Tunisia himself felt that Libya was an even greater threat than Syria. What policy can Europe, together with the US and perhaps with other countries, including Russia, pursue to tackle Libya, which is a major threat to democracy, such as Tunisia? I have spoken clearly about the ECB. We must be aware that an independent body such as the ECB does take decisions for all citizens of euro area countries and for the entire European population with long-term consequences. I do not think that this has anything to do with populism or anything to do with it. We must realise that an independent body must become "supervised" in a responsible way, precisely because of its independence. That seems to be a contradiction, but we cannot say: that is a natural phenomenon, it happens as it happens. I would like to make this specific point that we can have very exciting situations next summer around the large, massive repayments that Greece has to make to the ECB. I'm very worried about that. Does the Minister want to bring this to the attention of our President of the Eurogroup? That can still have major consequences. The Minister said that monetary policy is also war by other means. I thought that was a funny remark for a foreign minister. So I do not have to say anything about the ECB. "Crisis" has a positive meaning in Chinese, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u129	Is the Foreign Minister in a position to respond directly? That's the case. He has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u130	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the First Chamber for the second-term questions. Let me start with the final point. I believe this is indeed true. If you look closely at international monetary policy at the moment, it has, of course, elements of direct power formation. Monetary policy is not objective, neutral or anything without values or choices. There is political power and strength behind that. Trade flows and monetary instruments are interlinked in such a way that there is at present a real possibility of discussing the way in which Europe as a whole uses its monetary instruments externally. This obviously depends on the internal strength and strength of the euro area. This is important. I do not think it is necessary to draw my colleague's attention to this. I know he knows that. I think he's just been to the IMF. I have just said that, in order to protect our interests in terms of employment, we see something in European power building through a European chair in the IMF, but only under certain circumstances. With your permission, Mr President, I will not go back to the very interesting analyses that Members have all made. I thought it was an extremely positive debate. I believe that it is also a very sensible and important debate. I note that on the one hand there are a number of points on which we agree and on the other hand there are fundamental differences of opinion, for example on European integration. That is what you find in all the Member States and is a bit of a chicken or egg issue. When confidence within Member States on the direction of the European Union is not unambiguous, it is, of course, becoming increasingly difficult to create consensus between European countries. This means that a direction must be indicated. However, it would not be wise, at 10.30 p.m., to go back to 3.0 very precisely. I don't do that to hide behind it. There are indeed elements that really need to be changed. Institutional changes cannot be ruled out, as in the long term treaty changes. Of course, you can never rule out anything for the future. However, it has to do not only with institutions and power, but also with the joint debate we have to have in the European countries on what direction we want to take. In that context, I would like to defend the term 'constructive engineering', because I think that is a good term. After all, we have also done a lot of 'destructive engineering'. Look at some of the criticisms that some Members have raised about the European Union, which I share in part. Of course, architectural mistakes have been made in the European Union. Nor do I disagree with a number of elements mentioned by Mrs Faber, such as the lack of confidence or the feeling of many citizens that the European Union is not for their benefit. In part, it is seen as a far-from-my-bed show, as something where inappropriate opportunities are created by a way of scaling up and institutional design that is not in the interest of Dutch citizens. I think that is a perfectly legitimate debate. However, it's quite another thing, I'm sorry, with all due respect, when you start talking about pacts with the devil and when you say that there's only a certain club that sees it well and that others don't see anything. I find all that rather absurd. But of course it is about achieving that consensus with each other. I hope that, in the debate on foreign policy, we will talk about the strengthening of the CFSP, about certain elements of monetary policy and, above all, about the question of sovereignty, which we are now discussing. It concerns security, internal and external, borders and asylum policy, rights and values. On the one hand, these issues will have to be crystallised in policy areas, namely whether Europe is social and whether asylum policy is humanitarian, but on the other hand, it will also have to be guided by a number of questions that have to do with sovereignty. This has to do with a European ministry and with the sovereignty at the borders, which Mr Schaap spoke about. Those are debates that you do partly through constructive engineering. That's what you're supposed to have a debate on. Sometimes you are too late and sometimes too early, but there is no great institutional solution. In that sense, 3.0 is a good term. 1.0 and 2.0 are always about how to make the best plan. That's what people used to do in the Soviet Union. I don't want to compare you to that, but I sometimes hear that comparison. It is about which institutional balance is really the most important. At the heart of the problem we are facing now is that many people find it too far from their beds and do not see exactly how articulation of their interests takes place in Europe. This will have to be improved first if you want to take a step further in federalisation or any degree of integration. That's a choice we make. There is much more to be said about it, but we will undoubtedly do so in the May debates. A number of very specific questions have been asked, first of all about migration, which is the key problem. I would say to Mrs Strik that I have not had time for this, but for me as Foreign Minister, perhaps my first priority here is to say that the core of a migration problem lies in a conflict or inequality in the world that causes people to leave and then they are abused by smuggling networks, after which a problem is created, partly for themselves and sometimes for others. At its core, a solution must be found in conflict management. This is primarily about the conflict in Syria. The Netherlands is involved in many ways, including through the so-called 3D approach, to which Mr Schrijver referred. What has been decided, but what you can't always identify is the partnerships. I'm going to West Africa myself in a month. This is about the partnerships linked to youth unemployment. We are not going to solve this at once, but that has to do with smuggling networks, border surveillance and the huge brain drain in West Africa. Just a country like Mali, which I know very well, is extremely frustrated by the people who are leaving and are dealing with the direct consequences of the smuggling networks. However, it is not just a policy of stopping. As a former Minister for Development Cooperation, it has been a mistake that the modernisation of development cooperation has often only led to blunt cuts. This also applies to this cabinet, which has taken responsibility for this at some point in time in a given framework. You can't think in the short term, although that's what it's all about. The exact answers were provided in the letters. We have had the London Conference, where large funds have been promised, because they are now willing to pay. Paying is suddenly much less a problem. They say we have a problem and we have to solve it. That is why there is a growing desire to spend international money. To those who are critical of this, I say directly that this is also happening from a light self-interest. I can mention the amounts, but the Chamber knows the discussions and the letters we have sent about them, for example on Jordan, Lebanon and Africa. My great task with colleagues in Europe will be to make it work with the countries there. But if there is no local ownership, as it is so beautifully called, it will not work. It is clear that there is a real problem in the short-term, medium-term and long-term in the field of migration. We're not gonna solve that in two weeks. I'm not gonna create that illusion. I am merely saying that in the area that is now very acute, namely the terrible war in Syria, the way in which it is handled and the current that has been generated by it, through a number of elements I mentioned earlier, is being tried to find a solution in the coming weeks. I won't repeat myself. Partly in response to the questions raised about the international legal legitimacy and framework of the possibility for people to ask for and continue to ask for asylum, on which a meeting of the Ministers of Justice will be held tomorrow, I can say that we will return to the Chamber. The Commission has made a number of recommendations to improve the asylum procedure in Greece. Greece is working hard to implement it. In this respect, we are working not only with the Netherlands, but also with other countries, thus also with the Greeks, with a view to making Dublin transfers to Greece possible again. The Netherlands supports the Commission's initiative. Indeed, sending back to Turkey is still much unclear. I told you what I know about it now. Much will have to crystallize further. However, it is possible under the Procedural Directive to return migrants from a safe third country, provided that different legal obligations are met. Greece has declared Turkey a safe third country and has a read mission agreement with Turkey. People are talking about that in Izmir today. I don't know exactly what came out of it. It is obvious that Greece will then speed up its examination of applications by declaring them inadmissible, for example, on the grounds that Turkey is a safe third country. This is done under Article 38 of the Procedural Directive. That is also legally accepted by the Commission. This is done by looking on an individual basis at the application for asylum and declaring inadmissible on the grounds that an applicant comes from a safe third country in an accelerated procedure. Moreover, the asylum seeker continues to have the right to appeal. What is the EU doing to ensure that Syrians can continue to flee their country? The possibility of asylum in Europe is in itself fully standing. The aim is to make sure that it is really essential that it is done by regular means or through the UNHCR, and not through the misery that we are seeing now. In addition, the Commission has included in the humanitarian admission programme currently under discussion in the Brussels Council Working Group that access for Syrians in Jordan and Lebanon should be open. Turkey, in turn, continues to apply a no-return policy for Syrians travelling to Turkey via the country border. Restrictive measures are part of the visa requirements for Syrian refugees travelling through Lebanon and Jordan to Turkey. Turkey has that right. It is also not violating the Refugee Convention. I would like to say once again that Turkey has currently absorbed 2.5 million Syrians into its own country. It wants to end the transit to Europe via Turkey, which is understandable in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u131	I welcome the clear answer that an asylum procedure must indeed be preceded by a possible transfer to Turkey. Well, at least that's out of the world. My point was that Syrians should continue to be able to flee their country. Only a few weeks ago, we saw the footage of tens of thousands of people who were actually trapped in Northern Syria. At that time, the EU called on Turkey to let them in, above all, again, which it did not want to do. Of course, I understand the fact that Turkey is already receiving so many refugees. That is precisely why I am concerned about the fact that we only want to bring them back more, because this pressure is going to reduce Turkey's willingness to admit new refugees. That is why my question was to ensure, as President and as EU, that Turkey keeps the gates open for refugees from Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u132	I can't make that happen. I'm for it. We also insisted on this, especially when a stream was building up at the Syrian-Turkish border. I will continue to argue for that. We support ourselves at the border. It'd be better if they got over it. I think that, to put it bluntly, the valve that we want to organise towards Europe, whereby we take people through the legal road, the well-known air bridge now has a lot of chance of success. That's what's good about it. I really want to say something else, apart from all the legal elements, which are extremely important; let there be no misunderstanding about that. The core will be to what extent the Americans and Russians are able to prevent Aleppo from falling. So the core is now the international diplomatic game, in which Europe will have to play a key role to ensure that Aleppo does not fall. Of course, that is where the core lies: it is all the result of something else. It does not deprive anyone of their rights and duties, but it is the problem that we must continue to draw attention to. We must continue to stress, including in the Netherlands, that this aspect of foreign policy is not a luxury or a distant bed, not a pact with the devil, not a European elite that does not think of the European population, but the exact opposite. It prevents 60 million people in the world from having to leave their homes and fireplace at the moment. That is the essence of my message. Of course, we in Europe should show our solidarity in this respect. That is also a battle over what we can and cannot handle, a stress test, etc.; I am not going to make an easy judgment on this evening. Mr Schrijver asked about the European Commission's relocation plans. Twenty countries in Europe have now reported that they can receive relocaters. This still applies to a small number of people, which is a long way from the 160,000 promised. There was exactly what was happening. People seemed to have started on the wrong side. At least that's how I see it now. Why is it hard to reloculate people? Because they're going through the illegal road. So you have to cut off the illegal road to make the legal road possible. That sounds harsh, but that's the only method. Otherwise, no one's gonna be relocating. That's the game changer we've been trying to accomplish in the last few days. I come to a question from Mr Van Rooijen on pensions. That in itself is a very fair question given the enormous pension assets that we have in our country. For pension funds, a directive is currently under discussion, in the so-called trilogue phase, i.e. the 'directive on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision'; I apologise for English. It regulates a separate regime for social pension funds. The buffer requirements of Solvency II are expressly not applicable. The aim of the trialogue is to reach a compromise between the positions of the Council, Parliament and the Commission. The Netherlands will act as current President on behalf of the Council, with the starting mandate for the Netherlands as the previously agreed general approach. We hope to reach agreement during our Presidency, but these buffer requirements do not apply. Mr Schrijver and Mr Elzinga have asked a question about the distance from the ever closer union. I'm not sure whether Cameron should come home with anything or not; I'll leave that to him for a while. With regard to the term "ever closer union" in the Convention, the Decision provides that it does not constitute a legal basis for extending any provision of the Treaties or secondary legislation. So, actually, if you're being honest, you could say, what is it that's really bothering you? But that's not up to me. Apparently, they were concerned about that. If they want something that does not harm us very much, then I do not have such a problem if it can lead to the United Kingdom staying with us. We may not have to say that too loudly, so I am going to answer this question very briefly. I would like to thank Mr Koffeman for the interesting debate I had with him. I note, however, that he is shopping extremely selectively in the conversations he includes from others in his speech. I think that's a little hard on me. It's good to read what someone really stands for. A problem in the referendum is the so-called fact-free politicians: we are getting a quote from somewhere, we are putting it halfway and we are going to display very large views. I say again that the animal welfare standards in Ukraine are lower than in the Netherlands. In this context, Mr Koffeman spoke about the activities of the company MHP, which is active in the production of chickens. For this purpose, MHP has adopted specific policies. At the request of the IFC, a part of the World Bank, a few months ago an independent audit was conducted, perhaps you will find it interesting that something independent is also happening, and you believe that my animal welfare was also being targeted. According to the audit, the company scored well in the fields of animal welfare and biosafety. MHP applies international standards as a business standard, such as EU directives and WHO standards, of which Ukraine is a permanent member. Mr Koffeman also raised the issue of Ukrainian eggs, which would not meet EU standards and create unfair competition. Even before the provisional application of the trade parts of the Association Agreement was launched, you did not mention that if Ukrainian eggs met the health and food safety requirements, they could enter the EU market, although import levies reduced the supply. It is true that this is different for animal welfare; you are right. That's different from country to country. We cannot force it unilaterally on third countries, however much we want it to be. That is precisely why it is so important for the European Union to enter into an association agreement, which Ukraine is bound to do. I agree with you, Mr President, where we find each other again, that it does not go overnight, and 800 might be a lot. But you will also agree that this is a way forward, not backwards, and that the policy you advocate is: we keep it as it is. That can only be negative for all those animals in Ukraine who also want to have a future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u133	That is indeed characteristic: the opponents of the association agreement are not serious, shopping selectively, are stupid and bad. Of course, we can do all that. The editors of Boerderij, at least in the past a favourite magazine by colleague Schrijver, interviewed Mr Pavlenko in March and asked what he thinks of animal welfare. He said they weren't that bad. However, Mr Schaap said that this statement was from a year ago. Fortunately I was able to look further in the Farm and on 23 December of the past year, quite recently, Pavlenko was reminded by the editors of the Farm again of that statement. Apparently, De Boerderij also likes selective shopping. The editor said to Pavlenko: last year you showed yourself to be rather relentless; is that still true? He said: we are still not ready and we cannot break iron with our hands. 800 animal welfare rules, they couldn't do that at once. Of course, it's great to be able to hide behind it. 800 would be so much, you won't be able to do anything with it for a while. So on December 23, 2015, Pavlenko got double-fla in the Netherlands and visited Nijenrode again, saying that he is not going to do anything about animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u134	I do not remember saying anything about opponents of the referendum, as if they all had no arguments. On the contrary, I have said here how important I think the referendum is. I would like to campaign for it, I take the opponents extremely seriously and I think they also have very legitimate arguments, which we are debating. I can't stand it if there's no way of addressing arguments and selective shopping. That is not the way I want to start a debate. You can do that, you can keep doing that one more time, and you can keep doing that four more times. However, I am simply saying to you that the animals you stand for will not be in a better situation. That's what I keep saying. The people in the Netherlands who are in favour of animal rights are very wise to vote in favour. You may think otherwise, but I see it fundamentally different. And I like to base myself on facts. A number of questions have been raised concerning transparency and strengthening of national parliaments. I can only repeat what I said to Mr Kuiper, namely that it is really important. If the referendum in the United Kingdom for a reformed union leads to a yes, that vote will be further strengthened. In itself, the Netherlands does not need this, because we are international farmers. There are also countries that find that less attractive. However, I think that is very good. As far as the possibilities for better communication are concerned, I have already said a number of things. I come to the issue of transparency. The cabinet attaches great importance to good, correct and active information to the Chamber. That is why we have also given access to Extranet, the Council's internal database. Not all Member States within the EU provide such access. Limité means that the information is only available to the Member States and not to third parties. The cabinet does focus on the limité documents during the Presidency. It is often unclear now that I agree with you on why a document is marked as a limité. We want clarity on the balancing framework: why is it so? I think that is a very legitimate question. In doing so, our starting point is to remove this marking as soon as possible during our Presidency. So that's what we're gonna do. Then I'll get to the lobby register. Fortunately, the Commission's 2016 work programme does not contain too many proposals, but this proposal for a mandatory transparency register. This is important and sometimes you have to make an extra proposal. I have not yet seen the Commission's proposal. Prior to the publication of the proposal, the Commission published the consultation on 4 March. It is important that everyone participates so that we can move forward as soon as possible. I'm on Access Info Europe now. They asked why the evaluation has not yet been carried out. I will insist on this and ensure that it is discussed at Council level in the coming months. That's all I can promise right now. In doing so, I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u135	I have a specific question on the limité documents. They are now accessible to parliamentarians. Can this accessibility also be extended to experts so that they can play their advisory role?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u136	No, you can't. I've done this now. This is not happening in other countries at all. We managed to sort this out. It is not allowed to follow the current rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u137	Can this be involved in the evaluation that the Minister is going to carry out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u138	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u139	That is what we are hearing more about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u140	I'll see who gets there first, Mrs Faber or Mr Van Rooijen. I think Mrs Faber was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u141	Oh, yes, the pact with the devil, I apologize. You know, I'm having such a hard time with those kind of terms. I'm fine with Mrs Faber saying it's a pact with the devil. However, I am Minister of Foreign Affairs and I must also ensure that I do not call all other countries devils. However, I would like to say that I think it is wise, on the basis of some realism and unity in Europe, to negotiate heavily with Turkey on matters that concern our interests. But I don't think it's a pact with the devil.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u142	Of course, the Minister may think so, because we think freedom of expression is a very good thing. So who am I to say something about that? I have three more questions. I think the minister forgot to answer that. One of the questions is whether it is in the interests of the Netherlands that Turkey should ever join the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u143	It could be. It's a candidate country. The country will have to meet all the conditions. I don't see that happening for a while. But we'll see. It depends on negotiations and openings on other issues. However, it is a candidate country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u144	But is it in the interests of the Netherlands if it joins?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u145	Turkey is a candidate country. I could be repeating myself. The Netherlands accepts that it is a candidate country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u146	I don't think it answers my question, but I don't think I'm going to get another answer. Suppose, however, that the Turks are going to demand that we drop northern Cyprus. Is that what we're going to do? In fact, it's an occupied piece. However, a country that is a candidate for membership of the EU has occupied another country. That's a very strange situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u147	I generally don't go into this kind of like-dan questioning. However, I can say that there is considerable progress in the negotiations in Cyprus. I'm positive about that. We've been talking to President Anastasiadis for the last few days. I see progress in those talks. I don't think that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u148	Is your last question coming, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u149	Yeah, about this question, yeah. I have to be honest with you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u150	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u151	I can't hang you on the nose... Now I've forgotten my question. Then I'm gonna get on with my next one. I had another question about the Armenian people. Does the government fully recognise the genocide on the Armenian people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u152	The observation of what has happened there and its qualification is a legal one. As you know, we strongly condemn what happened there. But neither the term genocide nor the way in which it is handled is a precondition for Turkish membership. However, we have said that it is important and we are encouraging that there should also be an active dialogue between Turkey and Armenia and between Turks and Armenians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u153	Is the Minister prepared to send a list of measures for Tunisia from Europe, and possibly additional from the Netherlands, to the Chamber? He said he was already thinking about that, and that was actually a hint. A second brief question is whether he would like to say something about Libya and the threat it poses not only to Tunisia but to Europe as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u154	As far as the first is concerned, I am very willing to do so. We will. Before I come to your second question, may I just say to the VVD Group that I will pass on a number of proposals on external border surveillance to Mr Dijkhoff. I assume he'll inform you, too, but it's his wallet. I know he's working on it very actively. I'll pass it on to him. As for the situation in Libya, it is indeed worrying. Libya is very close to Italy, especially Lampedusa. That is why there is a very active diplomacy to prevent the country from falling further apart. Of course, this has already been done to a large extent. That has a long history and it also has to do with an intervention that we have not finished ourselves. There is also a certain degree of responsibility in the way that happened at the time. Nevertheless, you must imagine that there are two important issues. Firstly, the United Nations Special Representative, Mr Kobler, is currently trying to form a government of national unity with two political sides of the Libya conflict. It turns out it's hard. That is not incomprehensible when you look at where the country comes from. I don't think it's impossible either. It is, after all, the best method, provided that it is extended to cooperation with the municipalities in Libya, which are very important there, and the militias to jointly establish a political structure that can then also tackle ISIS. Now parallel to that problem is the growth of ISIS in Libya. You have seen the attacks that most likely have something to do with ISIS in southern Tunisia. So now there is also a time problem being created. That's stressful. I believe that you have also spoken here as a Chamber with the Prime Minister of Tunisia, and you have probably said that I do not want a major military intervention, because there is no civil war in Libya. There is no civil war there, but there are endless conflicts that have all kinds of complicated backgrounds. At a time when there would be a wrong response, you can strengthen the problem, which is an enormous attraction of ISIS. That's a huge problem now because you can't just leave it alone. That is what the Foreign Ministers will be dealing with next week in the framework of the Council of Foreign Ministers. It's obvious it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u155	The Farm was also read at home, but there is also an English version, namely Horse & Hound. I don't know if you know the key scene from Notting Hill. In this film the last question may be asked by the correspondent of Horse & Hound. That's me in this case. I saw the Minister nodding in my question about the history of Frontex and the Dutch attitude in it, but I have not heard him speak about it anymore. Can I take the nod as a yes to my question as to whether there can be an overview of the Dutch Government's attitude towards the proposals made in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u156	Yes. I would also like to pass it on to Secretary of State Dijkhoff. We have exact figures on it. The Netherlands provides "punches above his weight" at this point to speak in the language of your last question. Of course I will ask Mr Dijkhoff to inform you about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-10.u157	This correspondent is satisfied with that.
