ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u1	As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mrs Yücel would be next. I saw her too, but not anymore. Yeah, there she is!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. In order to ensure equal opportunities for all children, educational disadvantage policies play a very important role. Regardless of the street, district or municipality, every child must have the chance to get a fair start in primary school. The best investment in education is early investment in young children. There lies the basis for skills that are so much needed later in education. That is why we are so pleased that the redistribution is off the table. We are pleased that the cuts for 2017 are also off the table. At our insistence, with the support of the Chamber, a new indicator is being developed that will be much better covering for all children who are lagging behind in all the municipalities. I ask the Secretary of State to say that the number of children who are lagging behind will always remain a guiding factor for the budget, including the new indicator. Finally, I shall table a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that early and early school education can make a major contribution to combating inequality of opportunity;]] [[noting that there are municipalities which are not now sufficiently capable of setting up this pre-school and early school education;]] [[Whereas the prevention of delays is the most effective at a very young age;]] [[calls on the government to make proposals at Prinsjesdag to improve the ability of smaller municipalities to offer quality vve-spots for all vulnerable children with language disadvantages, without affecting the budget of larger municipalities and without reducing the deficit policy;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Yücel, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Rog, Mr Siderius, Mr Voortman and Mr Straus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27020-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. For more than a year now, it has been unclear whether children in large cities and smaller municipalities are making progress in terms of educational backwardness policies, pre-school and early school education. There's been a lot of uncertainty. I am extremely pleased that today a very large majority in this Chamber supports Mrs Yücel's motion to ensure that we retain in the big cities what is good for support for these young children and at the same time help smaller municipalities where this need is just as great and the disadvantaged children have as many rights as those in the big city, but where they have not been able to use these resources before. The CDA therefore wholeheartedly supports this motion; I am glad that we can put an end to a discussion that has lasted for more than a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u4	I note that the other Members present do not wish to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. Of course, it has been a huge puzzle: how do you deal with the educational disadvantage policy and the old indicator, which is now being renewed? The CBS is investigating how we can predict much better where education deficits are going to occur. This also responds to Mrs Yücel's question as to whether we are going to look at where the risk of delays is greatest. I don't know if that's about numbers of kids. This has to do with the new system that the CBS uses, because this system looks at risk factors. We are getting a little rid of the idea that we count children and put them in rather narrow boxes, as we are doing now on the basis of parents' education levels. We're going to be much more sophisticated about what factors are involved. Is it newcomers, for example? For example, are they from abroad? We are talking about asylum seekers or refugee children, who may have highly educated parents but who do have a risk of language retardation. For example, we look at geographical factors or the home situation, in addition to the level of education and the income of parents. Then you get a much more sophisticated model. On the question of whether the numbers of children will be leading, my answer is strictly no. We are moving towards a much more sophisticated and much better model that predicts exactly where the backlogs are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mrs Yücel, would you like to respond to the motion or to this part of the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u7	On this piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u8	Then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u9	It's about the question I asked. I understand what the Secretary of State is saying, but if it turns out that an x-number of children are really lagging behind according to the new definition, you should invest in it to ensure that they get fair opportunities in education and to avoid a later division. Then the budget needs to be adjusted accordingly. So it must not be the case that budget X is distributed because we do not have more. We just don't want to cut back, because the larger municipalities really aren't just about the G-4............................................................................................................................................................................................ That's the line we need to continue. That is why we have tabled the motion to which the Secretary of State will respond shortly, because we need more money for the small municipalities. We need to invest, not cut back. Even later on, we really need to focus our policies on achieving the best possible access to pre-school education for all children who are lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u10	That is exactly why we are looking at a better and new indicator, but we must make sure that we do not determine the results in advance. I have the impression that you are suggesting that at least this should mean more money. I'm not sure yet. So we're gonna take a good look at that. Moreover, the extent to which you define "language disadvantages" is always a political choice. If you broaden the definition, do you need as much funding as you do now? Now we have a rather narrow definition for very bad backlogs, which makes a lot of money available for that. You may have a more sophisticated system that will increase the target audience, but with which you can catch up with less money. That's the way I look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u11	I do indeed expect that the number of children suffering from language disadvantages will not decrease. After all, we now have a very narrow definition based on the level of education of parents. That really doesn't mean anything about delays, because the language context at home, the question of whether you're newcomer and, so to speak, the question of whether there's a lot of reading at home are important. So, of course, I have that expectation. Should it appear that the number of children with a very good definition, which is covering, is still less, then, of course, as far as the Labour Party is concerned, the number of children with a very good definition is leading the budget. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u12	I hear what Mrs. Yücel is saying. I'm going to the motion on part number one. 67, please. I think the motion is a good addition to the debate we have had. It's not like the recalibrate is off the table. I think we really need to be real about it that, if we go to a new deficit indicator that starts in 2018, that will lead to a re-evaluation. This review will only take place not in 2017, but a year later, also at the request of the VNG. I can go a long way with that. It is also not the case that the revision of estimates is now off the table. We moved a bit from 2017 to 2018, so that not already in 2017 an advance is made on the review, but in the budget this is still in place for 2018. I'm very good at what this motion is doing. That's why I'm taking over the motion. The motion states that this will give the big cities a little more certainty. I'm okay with that, but we know it's crunching the smaller municipalities. I'm willing to look into that in the run-up to Prince's Day. I'll take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u13	I'll see if there's any objection to taking over the motion in part No. 67. That is not the case. The Yücel c.s. motion. in piece No. 67 is thus taken over. Mrs Yücel still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u14	I want to put the motion to the vote. I hear the Secretary of State say that the review and the revision of estimates are not off the table. Even now, the Secretary of State himself is making an advance on an expected outcome. I would like to point out to him, however, that we are not cutting back on backward policies but investing in them, because we see how crucial that is for a good start in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u15	Before the Secretary of State responds, I have a technical point. The motion has been taken over. You didn't object, Mrs. Yücel. The motion will not be put to the vote, but it will be included in the voting list. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u17	I believe that Mrs Yücel and I do not differ in substance. You need to invest in educational disadvantages. But the way that money is distributed now, better, let me put it this way. We can see the enormous distortion between larger and small municipalities and also between municipalities, because we are now looking at the number of children who are lagging behind on the basis of an old indicator, with a date of counting in 2009. Please note that we are now living in 2016. So there are municipalities that now have much more disadvantaged children without the funding growing. There are also municipalities that receive the same amount for now far less disadvantaged children. I think it makes perfect sense that we're going to re-evaluate that. That's what we're heading for in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mrs. Yücel, can you see where your colleague Vermue is? Because I want to get on with the next VAO right away. Ah, there she is! I think all the spokesmen and the Secretary of State are in the house. We're ahead of schedule, but I don't think that's a big deal.
