ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u1	Seven speakers have come forward. The speaking time per group is three minutes. I would like to welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's been a while, so I'll start with a quick look back. In April last year, it appears that Abellio, a subsidiary of NS, hired a former competitor's employee through a dummy construction to outsmart competition. The moment this comes out, the NS says their top man Huges wasn't aware of this sham construction. The Abellio director is held inactive, but explains almost immediately that the NS-top was fully aware of this sham construction. A month later it turns out that Huges was well informed. The board of directors no longer trusts the top man. On 5 June NS reports that Huges has offered his resignation and that no departure fee will be paid. On the same day, following a discussion with the Supervisory Board, the Minister reported that Mr Huges acted sloppy, improperly and in violation of the law and that he did not receive a penny. Afterwards, it turns out that Huges already indicates to the chairman of the Supervisory Board that he has not resigned at all and is entitled to a departure scheme. Then nothing happens for a while. There is no letter of resignation, there is no settlement and Mr Huges is still employed by the NS. So my question is: how is this possible? This will take until 19 June, because then the Minister will intervene. He himself sends a letter of resignation, but that dismissal procedure is not valid. An additional shareholders' meeting should be planned to start the proper dismissal procedure. And then there's gonna be lawsuits. On 6 August, the NS and the Minister reported that a settlement had been reached with Mr Huges. He's getting €175,000 fired. A reward for bad behavior, if you ask me. So much for the look-back. And then I come to my questions. Why did the Minister and the Supervisory Board work so alongside each other? Why did the firing procedure become such a mess? How does the Minister himself look at this, including his own actions? What lessons does the minister himself draw from this soap opera? This soap opera never came to an end. On 19 February this year it is announced that Abellio's dismissed driver also settled with NS. The top man still gets a fee of €250,000. NS and the Minister opt for a settlement, as it avoids high legal costs. It is incredibly harsh that, despite previous tough statements, two drivers who have made mistakes and have not acted in accordance with the law still receive a discharge fee. And then I come to a more fundamental point: the settlements themselves. The image now is that, despite your mistakes, you will still be rewarded. The higher you sit, the more you get. Before a judge has given a ruling, the case is bought off. Despite the mistakes that have been made, conflicts are being paid off. My group finds that very cynical. How's the Minister looking at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr Omtzigt will be the last to speak tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to confine myself to four questions to the Minister. Finally, I also have an opinion. First of all... The NS is taking action to prevent the same mistakes that have been made in the future. The necessary studies shall be carried out leading to recommendations and opinions. Can the Minister indicate what action will be taken and what will be achieved in the end? Second. Options are being examined to recover rewards awarded in circumstances other than those underlying the remuneration. What's going on with the investigation? Third. Have the NS Statute been brought into line with the standard as set out in the Participation Decision? If so, what does that mean? And what's in it for you? Fourthly, the Supervisory Board. The Alvarez & Marsal agency investigated the NS, in particular the governance, risk and compliance. In good Dutch: the governance structure, the risks and compliance with laws and regulations. To what extent is the supervisory board itself subject to investigation? This need seems to exist, given the poor functioning of the resignation of the Chairman of the Management Board and the functioning of the Chairman himself. Finally. The PvdA considers that it is time to bring the remuneration of the NS into line with the growing public character of the company. Does the Minister share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. This debate fits into a long line of scandals. This case of dismissal of a senior official, who has gone so wrong, fits into a culture. A culture of friendliness and getting away with everything; keeping each other's hands above their heads. A culture of a link between politics and business that is unhealthy. A culture of: I give you some and then I hope they will give me some; of the old boys network; of ex-politicians with twenty or thirty side jobs and of exhibitionist self-enrichment which the PvdA is also so good at. But certainly not just the PvdA, actually the entire political establishment. We are not talking today about one of the many housing corporation directors, nor about the mega-wages in public service broadcasting, nor about the hospital administrators or the director of the AFM. We're not talking about the Director of the Zeeland Security Region. We're not even talking about the health insurance companies tonight. We are not even talking about the energy company DELTA, where €800,000 in salary is paid, because that was the day before yesterday. No, today we are having a debate on the remuneration and dismissal policy of the boss of another 100% state participation; the Dutch Railways. You know, that top company with all those top executives like ex-politician Paul Rosenmöller. They are responsible for all the top performances like the Fyra and those busy trains. The scenario of the Limburg tender fraud would not be out of place in an episode of House of Cards; fraud, a mole and corporate espionage with consequences that penetrate into the highest political power in this country. However, there was the bonus for Mr Huges. The final agreement was a settlement; a settlement with a person who was aware of criminal offences and possibly even responsible for them. What about the criminal investigation? The Minister of Finance has already expressed regret at his petty manner of action on this issue. Does Mr Dijsselbloem really believe that this Mr Huges can simply stay on as the director of another state participation, namely the Port of Rotterdam? Fraud is a very serious offense, isn't it? Why isn't the whole board of Commissioners being dealt with? Are they not jointly responsible for this debacle; not only for the dismissal of Huges, but for the whole affair? But the most important question for us remains whether the Minister is finally prepared to do anything about it, so that this will never happen again and that endless series of abuses about salaries and redundancy payments in the public and semi-public sectors will finally stop. For example, Dutch taxpayers and employees could once again believe that the Netherlands is a just country, where good work pays and where wrongdoing, especially at this level, is punished, not just for ordinary workers, but for the summit. We need top officials and, of course, we must reward them well. But we must be equally bold to tackle this, precisely to show all those good, hard-working workers in our country that the Netherlands is a civilized and just country with no boyfriend politics, where performance counts and services do not depend on the question of which political party you are or which friends you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u6	Before I give the floor to Mr Öztürk, I would like to say to the Acts that this debate is about the bonus for the NS top man and that we are not here to discuss parties with each other. We will now listen to Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. This is yet another bonus debate. DENK welcomes the fact that we are having these debates, because they are about injustice and fighting injustice is one of the core values of our movement. This time the debate is about a fired top man of the Dutch Railways. That man made some big mistakes. He gets an exit bonus of about €175,000. So you don't do your job well and then you get €175,000. Ordinary citizens, we, no one can understand this. Drivers always win: if they do their job well, they pay themselves bonuses; if they don't do their job well, they get a golden handshake or a sky-high departure bonus. How do we intend to combat this injustice? We believe that the driver's bonus should be proportionate to that of the rest of the organisation. Why do ordinary workers only receive a 13th month bonus and drivers receive an annual salary bonus? DENK says get rid of that double size! We believe that the scale of the bonus should be the same for all those who work well, from cleaner to director, as many months' salary. With that fair system, the bonuses will go down by themselves. After all, everyone can give a year's salary almost not one company or institution. How does the Minister feel about this? Is he willing to investigate this idea further? Could this be introduced in the public sector? Would he like to advise on this in the private sector? Dare to think differently. Dare to give a fair and just bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Chairman. This minister is a shareholder of NS. Shareholder on behalf of all of us. A shareholder of a company can be expected to make maximum efforts to ensure that a company operates as well as possible. Then you'd expect passion and commitment. You would expect that every effort will be made to ensure that NS functions optimally, in the interests of passengers and shareholders. But what do we see? We can see that things are going wrong in the tendering process in Limburg. An e-mail is being mistransmitted, among other things. The Minister then thwarts the NS to challenge the ACM's conclusions. The Minister immediately throws the towel into the ring in order to fight against the taking of the concession and leaves the concession to Germany. The traveller gets a worse offer and the taxpayer loses revenue. That's not a policy you'd expect from a finance minister. The NS-topman is then fired three times with a lot of screaming and three times failed. He would be a big fraud, who would have to leave NS without a penny. However, there has never been a court that has accused or convicted the NS-topman of fraud. It also turned out that the Minister was fairly soon aware that he had a very weak legal position vis-à-vis Huges. After all, the state attorney had mapped this out. However, the Minister withheld this information and still played nicely again. In the whole of the facts, the state attorney's investigation doesn't even occur. It was only a week after the settlement that the Chamber received this information. How does the Minister himself look back on this? Is this a good way of doing things, which we should expect from a finance minister? Didn't he get ahead of himself too fast? Does he still believe that Huges is indeed a major fraud? If so, why did he fit in with him? I'd like an answer. Now this minister has a new plan to decimate the NS even further. The NS is no longer allowed to offer on regional railway lines. Can you imagine that? The Dutch Railways that are no longer allowed to drive in certain parts of the Netherlands, because this minister has given this gift to the Arrivas and Veolias of this world, while the NS can compete for concessions abroad. Then there is the myth that NS is no longer allowed to run station stores, because this would distract from the core tasks, while this has nothing to do with each other at all. It's not like if NS doesn't run any shops anymore, all of a sudden the trains will start driving on time. What we are going to see is that the employees at the stations get a worse collective agreement and that we give the beautiful shops away to investors. Shops built up with taxpayers' money, travelers' money, are all going to be gifted to commercial companies. When can we expect the Minister of Finance to commit himself with passion and commitment to the NS and make it a truly strong state-owned company, in the interests of travellers and in the interests of taxpayers, instead of decimating the company into a company that is not allowed to drive trains on the main rail network in any way? Who's going to pay the bill if the NS is going to be worthless by this policy? Is the minister going to pay them or the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr. Chairman. Earlier the VVD mentioned the firing soap around the former NS-topman incomprehensible and amateuristic and nothing has changed about that. The resignation was inevitable and logical as far as we are concerned. De Brauw's report on irregularities in NS confirmed that. In this light, it is particularly difficult and difficult to understand that the national attorney finds that there were no urgent reasons for the dismissal. What do you have to do to get fired? This dismissal allowance is a bad signal and difficult to explain to people in the country. Apparently, you get to make all kinds of mistakes, cheat the place, and then you can still walk out the door with a bag of money. And that at a time when it is difficult to arrange money for extra conductors for safety on trains. The resignation, as I said, went amateurish. That's why Huges can run off with a big scholarship. If it can't be done as it should be, then it has to be done as it can, but it remains very acidic. What would have happened if no mistakes had been made in the dismissal procedure? Is that what happened? Recently, agreements with some other directors of NS have also been in the news, including those of Abellio and Qbuzz. Here too, things seem to have gone wrong, which now means that tonnes have to be paid. What did the Minister say went wrong there and how does he intend to prevent it in the future? Why is the Minister not prepared to announce the amounts? In both cases, the VVD had found it only normal that, given everything that has happened, the people who made mistakes had not been given a penny. For both routes, the only positive thing about the settlement is that this dismissal campaign ends. Only the lawyers would have gotten better from a long-term legal fight. What stays is a dirty, dirty aftertaste. Previously, the Minister said that no departure fees would be paid for former directors and that the variable remuneration awarded would be recovered. The minister is often firm on salary issues in the media, but later it appears that he has agreed, that he has nothing to say about it or that he can't do it later. How does the Minister deal with this kind of thing in the future? Is he gonna be more careful? What has the Minister himself learned from this resignation soap opera and what would he have done or should have done in retrospect? Finally, we would like to know what is still going on and what the state of play of these procedures is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u10	Mr Omtzig is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u11	Mr. Chairman. I was also the applicant for this debate. When you, as a Member of Parliament, asked for this debate a year ago, there was a great deal of uncertainty about the resignation bonus of the Director of NS. Why did he get it? What happened next is really unimaginable. We have asked many parliamentary questions. Slowly it came to the table that he was not fired once but three times, that a bonus was paid and that €60,000 in legal expenses were also reimbursed, something we knew nothing about until a few weeks ago. This is a bit in line with the pattern of the EU's post-taxation, the coco's and the bonuses at NS that we talked about earlier. Does the Minister also see this and will we be getting better information? Then I'll go to the contents. It is morally reprehensible that someone who is ultimately responsible for a company that was being cheated, which he did nothing about, still thinks he is entitled to the bonus and the payout itself. However, it turns out that it was the minister himself who, as a shareholder, agreed to that bonus. If that's true, isn't it surprising that Mr. Huges assumed that they could be paid? That is why I ask again: who signed for the bonus and why did the Chamber have to ask a lot of questions before we had any idea what had happened? Recently we were able to add another chapter to this soap opera. The minister promised the Chamber that the NS fraudsters at Qbuzz in Limburg wouldn't get a penny when they left. Still, NS is pulling the wallet. The railways have fit the case and pay the main figure in this fraud case a small million euros. The dismissal of one of the directors, the centre of Limburg's fraud, is also reversed. Only on 1 February 2016 there was a normal discharge and that means an annual salary of about €200,000 extra. The list is longer than the speaking time I have available here today, and that is frightening. We would like to hear from the Minister when he, as a shareholder, heard that these buy-backs would be paid. After all, he had publicly said very loudly that these people would not get a ransom in any way. When was he told? What action did he take then? Was that early February? And was this one of the reasons why the publication of the NS's annual report was postponed? Did that happen partly at the request of the shareholder? We would like to hear the Minister's views on these developments. Fraud and getting money: how is he going to explain that to the Netherlands? These are people suspected of crimes. There are criminal proceedings in progress. Has the legal advice requested taken into account the fact that these criminal proceedings are under way, i.e. where does the obligation to pay a lot of tonnes to someone who is under investigation come from? How is the Minister going to explain that to the many NS employees who have worked hard, and still lose their jobs at the next reorganisation? I would like to hear an answer from this minister, as a shareholder and as a social democrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you very much. The Minister has requested a short suspension to prepare the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u13	Mr. Chairman. The title of the debate is no longer entirely adequate. One of the few things that has gone well in this whole issue is that the bonus of the former top man has been repaid. That didn't apply to all parts, but just for this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u14	But the title doesn't say anything about that. The debate is about the bonus, the further content is left in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. We have spoken about this a few times in my opinion and many letters have been sent about it. Without too much introduction and explanation, I will immediately answer the questions. The first part of the questions relates to the history of fraud in Limburg. In doing so, you have to establish that the company's risk and compliance is not properly secured and that the care about it is not properly guaranteed. This was also highlighted in Alvarez & Marsal's research. An action plan has now been developed which has also been sent to the Chamber. I believe that this happened on 15 January. In that letter I inform the Chamber of what actions have been initiated. These kinds of cultural changes begin at the top. The board of directors of NS has been expanded to include a chief compliance risk and governance maybe the order of the title is different. namely Mrs Zijderveld. She started a few weeks ago. It will ensure that the whole organisation is secured much better, because that is where it all started. The actions of NS in Limburg led to a complaint to the ACM. The ACM then examined NS on a number of points. One of them was a violation of the Railway Act. A decision has already been made on this. We were informed about the proposed decision. When Finance, as shareholder, heard that this decision was coming, we informed NS that we did not think it wise to appeal it. The SP doesn't agree with that. In the judgment of the ACM, the company clearly violated the law. As a company that has done so clearly, I do not think it would be wise for a public undertaking to oppose that judgment. There was no reason to undermine judgment. This has also been demonstrated by subsequent investigations. I am surprised that NS blames me for saying that the company should not appeal it. There is still an ACM investigation into whether NS's behaviour is in breach of the Competition Act. I shall now turn to Mrs De Vries' question on what is still going on. The purpose of this research is to provide the right information, abuse the market power position and not internally separate and shield information flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u16	I had referred to the consequences of this Minister's decision to tell NS that the company should not appeal. The ACM stated in the Chamber that it would not have minded if NS had appealed, because we would have been given more clarity as to whether what NS did was really an offence. Now we have no clarity about that. There is an assumption from the minister who actually lay on his back and then gave away the trail to Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u17	For the sake of time, I don't go into all the insinuations. In fact, there is a hard and sharp opinion of the ACM on the behaviour of the NS in Limburg. At least that's breaking the Railway Act. My opinion on this is clear. That is extremely serious. That can't happen again. Unfortunately, the concession in Limburg for NS was lost. What that means for the future and the strategy is not the subject tonight. The cabinet will respond separately to what I call the NS strategy note. We are going to talk about this at another time. At that time it was about an ACM decision and I did not think that the NS should appeal it. The second ACM study is still ongoing and there are also a number of painful issues. When it all becomes clear, on 5 June, there is consultation with the Supervisory Board, in which its chairman plays an important role. He was in contact with the CEO, Mr Huges, that morning. Indeed, it had been found that it was involved in a number of parts and that it had been informed of the mistakes that had been made and had not acted on them. That was the reason for the supervisory board that morning to have a conversation with him. In the conversation I had with the Supervisory Board at the beginning of the afternoon, we have already discussed this, so I am trying to get through it quickly. The President informed me that Mr Huges himself would withdraw. On the basis of that information, I took the view that there could therefore be no question of departure fees etc. Later it turned out it hadn't happened that way. At least, Mr Huges indicated that he had not resigned voluntarily at all and that he had never been fired. That only became clear in the weeks after that. It is extremely unfortunate that the chairman of the Supervisory Board, who had the farewell meeting with the CEO in that capacity, should inform the Supervisory Board and the shareholder that the CEO is resigning and that it is only weeks later that it becomes clear that this has not happened, at least in the opinion of Mr Huges himself. My ruling that Huges would leave without fees, etc., was based on that information. That information was subsequently found to be incorrect. This later led to the departure of the chairman of the Supervisory Board. He took his responsibility in that. I believe that Mr Hoogland asked what further responsibility the Supervisory Board has assumed. Mr Madlener also spoke about the role of the Supervisory Board. In hindsight, in order to be careful, the firing of the top man should never have happened by one person. I think it would have helped if that conversation had been held by several Commissioners. That conclusion was, of course, also drawn on the supervisory board. In future, this type of governance decision will be handled much more carefully. Responsibility for the way this has been handled lies primarily with the former chairman of the Supervisory Board. This, of course, gives us reason to ask for this kind of thing too often from the Treasury as shareholder: has it been refined, where it becomes apparent, it has been dealt with, et cetera. However, we are not the employer, so our position remains special. As a shareholder, you're not the one who makes this type of decision. You do approve decisions on the appointment and remuneration of directors, but you don't implement them. We're not doing the dismissal interview or the appointment interview. Formally, the responsibility for carrying out such a shareholder decision lies with the Commissioners. I wrote in the letter of 5 June in which I informed the Chamber about the resignation of Mr Huges at the time: "On similar grounds arising from the ongoing investigation, NS has declared Abellio Holding's CEO inactive and removed from office without any compensation." This too ended later in a settlement. Once again, I have based myself on information from the Supervisory Board. However, we must make a distinction. As a shareholder, you are entitled to make the final decision on the appointment and remuneration of directors of the NS holding company, but not of all other people and therefore not of the CEO of Abellio. That's really the responsibility of the NS. A press release by the Supervisory Board of the NS itself literally reads the phrase "without any compensation." That statement proved to be premature and not correct afterwards. Now we come to the main point of this debate: how can you not fire people who have been really culpable and responsible for major mistakes with major consequences and damage for the company without further departure arrangements, payment or whatever? Then we move into an area where I am not necessarily competent, namely labour law and how it is regulated in the Civil Code. In particular, Mrs De Vries asked for this, quoting the national attorney who was in charge of the dismissal of Mr Huges. It was for "no urgent reason." Now I have to take up the texts of the Civil Code, although I do not want to draw you, Mr President, into a debate on the Civil Code and the right of dismissal. I do not know whether the right spokesmen are present for this. The Civil Code lays down quite precisely what grounds you may terminate the employment contract of people without delay, or, in other words, you may dismiss them immediately. It is precisely regulated in Article 678. In short, you have to find someone almost by hand in the greenhouse, in the act, before you can fire them without further ado. When it comes to administrative decisions that we will say are obviously bad in a way that is harmful to the company, you cannot dismiss someone immediately on the basis of Article 678.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u18	The minister says you can fire someone if they grab their hands out of the greenhouse. I have put questions to the House on this matter. The Minister previously told the Chamber that the former NS-topman had paid himself €75,000 without consulting the Supervisory Board or the Minister. Then I asked the Minister if that was still true and was the case. The Minister has indeed noted that. The Minister said: yes, that's right, that's a correct representation of the facts. Now the Minister says we didn't have those grounds. Perhaps the Minister could elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u19	This concerns the early payment of the bonus to Mr Huges. He himself initiated the implementation of that decision, even without the knowledge of the Commissioners. That is an extremely strange course of action. I'm trying to remember what happened. He himself stated within the company that the bonus could be paid, while the decision-making process had not yet been completed at all and the supervisory board was concerned about whether directors are entitled to a bonus and at what time it should be paid out. I believe that Mr Omtzigt has just asked questions about this. That's something other than stealing. Yeah, I'm sorry. This was extremely careless. That's not how things work. And to take the subject of the bonus for Mr Huges straight away, I go into Mr Omtzigt who said: yes, but the Minister himself agreed. He may refer to a consultation that I had with the board of Commissioners in the early spring of 2015, well before the Limburg affair became known. At that time we did indeed talk about bonuses, especially about the bonus for the CFO. He would still get a high bonus under an old contract. I said that I would like to bring that bonus under the 20% bonus ceiling, although he was strictly entitled to it because of his contract. That's what the conversation was about. We broke up without conclusions. I just indicated that it was my wish to limit the bonus for the CFO. The Supervisory Board wanted to see if that was possible. On 3 March, just before the general meeting of shareholders, Mr Huges had already paid his bonus, while this route was still running. That's a little bit different than a grounds for dismissal according to the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u20	The Minister was very screaming about this during the general discussion. In the words of the Minister, it was more or less fraud. If €75,000 is withdrawn from the cash account without the procedures being properly followed, then you can only conclude that this is extremely careless. I am surprised that, in such a situation, the Minister says: we had no opportunity to fire him. On the basis of the facts presented by the Minister, you could conclude that. Then it comes out that it may have gone quite differently, that this may have been discussed with the Minister and that the Minister has agreed to it. So it only gets blurred, vaguer and more unclear. I therefore ask the Minister whether the €75,000 involved fraud. If not, why was the Minister so screaming about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u21	First of all, it's not really in my character to be "screamy." Secondly, I do not believe that it has become more shadowy. At that time, in spring 2015, there was little discussion about Mr Huge's bonus. There was a lot of discussion about the CFO bonus. Those cases were in one conversation, and that conversation wasn't over yet. At the same time, the Supervisory Board had not yet taken a final decision, not even on the CFO's bonus, let alone that they had ordered, I shall say 'the payroll administration' to pay out that bonus. Later it appeared that Mr Huges had already ordered himself to pay out that bonus to him. So the fact that he got that bonus was still plausible at that time, in the spring. After all, we didn't know anything about the affair in Limburg. The fact that he would receive that bonus at some point was also plausible. But it's extremely unusual and undesirable for a driver himself to say that the moment has come, can I get my bonus? That's up to the board of directors. But that, too, is no reason in Dutch dismissal law to grab someone's ass and kick them out without... et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u22	We are always talking about the role of the Supervisory Board. We are not talking about the chairman of the Supervisory Board, but about the entire Supervisory Board. Of course, this board of Commissioners has screwed up a lot, so by people you can expect to be able to handle firing someone. However, it seems that it did not succeed. Of course, there can also be some kind of friendliness, because it's all in the same circuit. According to the Minister, is the resignation of the chairman of the Supervisory Board sufficient? Isn't it true that all the members of the Supervisory Board have been sleeping? Is there any further division of labour within that supervisory board? Is it true that only the President is responsible for such dismissal procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u23	Yes, the latter was the case. The chairman of the Supervisory Board had been in contact with the rest of the Supervisory Board and had informed the other members, but not properly informed. It was therefore decided jointly that on the basis of the complex of facts, Huges could not be moved forward. The chairman then went on behalf of the Supervisory Board to talk to Huges, and reported back that Huges would resign himself or had resigned himself. It was only weeks later that Huges never did, according to his own words. Well, I think he can judge that for himself. The only thing that had helped was a situation in which the President had not had that conversation on his own. That would have been the only guarantee in this situation and then it might have been handled more carefully. Thus, incorrect information has been shared. We will not know how that could have happened, because we were all not at that conversation between the President of the Supervisory Board and the former CEO. I really do not know whether there was a misunderstanding or something else. However, it took weeks before it became clear that Huges had not resigned at all. So he's still formally in office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u24	The Minister therefore considers that the other members of the Supervisory Board are not at all blamed, that they should not have done anything better and therefore should not have left. That second case, with Abellio, involved another board of commissioners, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u25	Abellio is a full daughter of NS. NS therefore has legal control over the appointment, dismissal and remuneration of the directors of Abellio. The responsibility for the decision on that settlement lies with the NS-direction. That's what she's talking about. She's kicked the owner of daughter Abellio.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u26	So there is no separate board of Commissioners for Abellio. I think that was Mr Madlener's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u27	No: so the sitting board of Commissioners does not find any blame for the second case that went wrong. We can't blame her for that. Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u28	I'm on slippery ice right now. The question is, after all, that the second case went wrong. That may be your moral view, because the person concerned has left with a payment of salary and a departure fee. Whether that's a mistake or not, I'm not going to judge you here. It's not my decision, and I haven't had access to the whole fact-finding complex either. I really stick to the argument, however annoying, that the shareholder is responsible and has the power to appoint, reward, et cetera, directors of the company of which I am a shareholder, the NS. For everything that happens underneath, with daughters or underneath the organization, I have no authority at all. I can't fire people, appoint them, or decide on their rewards. You have an opinion on that. I'll take note of that. It's the responsibility of NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u29	I was surprised. The Minister says here that he has no knowledge of the whole complex of facts at all. If the Minister had no knowledge of the whole fact-finding complex surrounding the dismissal and what happened at Abellio, why did he talk about not being paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u30	That was a literal quote from the NS press release of the same day, June 5th. I took that quote on the authority of the Supervisory Board, which made this communication public that day. I couldn't have done it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u31	The latter could indeed have done so, because two months before that, of course, it had already happened that the supervisory board had not been so pleasantly informed to the minister. That was when Mr Huges was dismissed. Now it happened again. When did the Supervisory Board inform the Minister that he was wrong and that they were still going to pay compensation to those dismissed drivers in Limburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u32	That was February. I have to say it out of my head right now. Do you mean to ask when the NS has decided to settle with Abellio's driver?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u33	Indeed, when did NS decide that? And when did NS communicate this to the shareholder, who apparently made quite a mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u34	The NS has already put the shareholder on the wrong track on 5 June. The decision to settle was taken in February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u35	When was the Minister informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u36	In February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u37	Why was there no reason at the time to inform the Chamber about this? You had made that statement publicly, even here, and knew there was great turmoil.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u38	I shall now return to the division of responsibility. As a minister, I am responsible for the appointment, dismissal and remuneration policies of directors. This applies to all state participations. Underlying layers in the organization are not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u39	No, Mr. Omtzigt, we're going to finish now. Mr Öztürk may also wish to continue on the same point. The Minister has now said twice how he sees this division of responsibility. We are going to see Mr Öztürk first. If there's another question open after that, you can come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u40	If I may, Mr President, it is not just about how I see responsibility. It's just a legal arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u41	Can I give one of my interruptions to Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u42	I suggest you ask your question first. If Mr Omtzigt then has a pressing question, he can always ask it. However, we are not going to interrupt endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u43	No, I get that. Is it possible for the Minister to provide a chronological list that provides insight into when he is informed about what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u44	That's possible, but I'm referring to the letters the Chamber already has. I have them all here; a huge pile. If Mr Öztürk had read them, he would have seen exactly the complex of facts. I'm not gonna send information and letters to the Chamber twice, that's really pointless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u45	I wasn't finished with my question when the Minister started answering, interestingly. I'd like to finish my question and then I'll have another interruption, I think. Why am I asking? Just a moment ago, there was a lack of clarity. The Minister said: I was informed in February; this is not my responsibility and yet I did so. That's why I'm referring to it. The Minister does not have to tell me whether or not I have read the letters to base a line of defence on them...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u46	Let us not talk about this, but rather about the questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u47	Just state that you are willing to give a chronological list. When were you informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u48	For the factual state of affairs, there are indeed a number of letters containing part of the chronology. Perhaps you could give the Minister a more specific explanation of what you have a supplementary question about chronology. Then we will avoid duplication of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u49	The question put by Mr Omtzigt and the answer given by the Minister call into question me. This is the part where Mr Omtzigt wanted to ask what he couldn't do because he ran out of interruptions. I would like to clarify that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u50	I will have a moment to ask what day we were informed by the NS about the settlements with the employees in Limburg, so to speak. If that matters to you, I'd be happy to tell you. I don't know that by heart. It was in February, after the NS itself had decided to settle it. Annual report legislation stipulates that you report not only on directors' remunerations but also on executive committee remunerations, so a low below. For example, the settlement with Mr Hoogesteger has come to the fore in publicity; this should simply be mentioned in the annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u51	I do have a fact story here with all the data. However, this starts in September 2014 and ends in August 2015. We are therefore missing a certain period, namely the period from August to February. I would like to know what information has gone back and forth between the NS and the Minister during that period. Can the Minister indicate whether he has received any information from the NS between August and February on any arrangement for the departed Abellio top man?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u52	It's really up to the NS to make that decision. There have been proceedings, judicial proceedings have already been initiated and at some point the NS has weighed, given its legal position, in order to reach a settlement. After that decision was taken, it was also the competence of the NS....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You may think that in the meantime we have all been involved... you don't know that, I hear you say. No, but I'm telling you, and the question is, do you want to believe it? It's the authority of the NS. That decision was finally taken and then communicated to me in February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u53	In conclusion: between August 2015 and last February there was no consultation from the NS or the Ministry of Finance about the bonus of the departed Abellio-topman. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u54	I don't know what you're looking for. The point is, who's talking about it? The Ministry, the Minister of Finance, is not about it. That's how it's done. Then you must make the NS an official service, including Abellio. Then you can appeal to me for any appointment, any resignation and any compensation. In our relations, where the minister is the shareholder of the NS, I am responsible for the appointment, dismissal and remuneration of directors of the NS. Decisions underneath are on the NS and I'll leave them there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u55	The Minister responds very cleverly. He says, "I've just been notified of a settlement." There was no such settlement, so he wasn't informed of it before February. However, my SP colleague's question was very sharp. In November there is a public trial of this dismissed driver. He lays down his demands on the judge. Then at that moment there is contact between the NS and the Ministry of Finance and then the NS explains where it went a little bit wrong? I therefore repeat the question: when was there any discussion between August 2015 and February 2016 about the fact that it would not be possible for this person to leave with zero departure fee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u56	Now Mr Omtzig puts it very precisely. That conclusion wasn't reached until they said, and so we're gonna settle. At that time, that settlement was reached and Finance was informed of it. Throughout the preliminary phase there was a conflict of labour, let's just say that legal proceedings were initiated, lawyers were involved and so on, but that was all between the employees involved, the board of Abellio and in this case the NS. Treasury isn't in the middle of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u57	Finance isn't in the middle of that, but the question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u58	We'll let each other finish. I will first give the Minister the opportunity to finish his answer and then Mr Omtzigt will have the opportunity to ask his follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u59	This was my answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u60	Then Mr Omtzigt will now have the opportunity to ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u61	Of course the Minister or the Ministry is not among them, but the question is: is the Ministry at any time between August and February, spontaneously by the NS or at the request of someone from the Ministry, informed about what was going on there? In November it was in the newspaper that this driver demanded a lot of money from the court. Has there been any consultation that would allow the Minister and his ministry to know that there could be a settlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u62	We all knew there were people out there who weren't active. In some cases, this has been dealt with fairly quickly. In some other cases, this led to legal proceedings. We didn't know if that would lead to a settlement. During these months there was consultation between the lawyers and, on the basis of legal advice, the NS finally took the decision and said: we are going to settle in the case of the former CEO of Abellio. After that, the Ministry was informed. I can have it checked for information in the meantime, but with all due respect, it doesn't matter. It's really up to the NS to assess that and make a decision about it. I'm responsible for the directors of the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u63	I have a point of order. The minister says he can have it checked out. I suggest we suspend for ten minutes and check this out. We have asked this question very pertinently about the information exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u64	I suggest we ask the Minister to find out for the second term. I see that a number of other speakers also want to respond to this point. I would like to give them the opportunity to go further into this question. The Minister will then have until the second time to comply with your request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u65	I'd like to go back in time anyway. This whole soap opera, to put it this way, this whole situation is caused by fraud or at least by acting in violation of the Rail Code by Abellio. That's the beginning of the whole chain of dismissal and reproach. The director, the CEO of Abellio, was arrested in April by the ACM and by the house accountant. That's what it starts with. The letter of 5 June, after the discussion between this Minister and the Supervisory Board, reports on both persons, on Mr Huges and on the CEO of Abellio. The Minister has just explained what has happened with regard to Mr Huges, but he says with regard to Abellio's CEO that he is not about this and that this is not his responsibility. In the letter, however, the sentence is quite clear: this gentleman is dismissed without compensation for departure. Now the Minister uses the formal argument that he is not talking about it and that he is therefore not allowed to say anything about it, but in the letter of 5 June he does take a position on this. This is, of course, at the heart of the matter. What exactly happened and did the shareholder sit on top of this case? That is at the heart of this discussion. The whole situation starts with Abellio. How then is it that the Minister is not informed of exactly what happened and what caused this whole situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u66	There was no doubt about that. I have been informed about the beginning of this situation. The passage in the letter of June 5 was a quote from an NS press release. In retrospect, I shouldn't have taken over. It was to inform the Chamber, and that's why I took over. Mr Koolmees says that this is now a statement from the Minister, so the Minister promises that there will be no compensation. However, this is a quote from the press release of the Supervisory Board. So I shouldn't have taken over, because not only do I have no formal authority, but I don't want that one either. I think NS should be run like a company. That's why we made NS a state stake. It's the NS NV, which means the State is a shareholder. NS is not an official service. I am responsible for the supervisory board and the board of directors. The Chamber can appeal to me on that. All inferences lower in the organisation should be properly settled by the Supervisory Board and the Governing Board of NS. In Mr Koolmees' questions, there is always the suggestion that something would have gone wrong here too. What has gone wrong is the actions of those involved and those responsible within Abellio and in the region and the CEO of NS. Something went wrong there. In the handling of the dismissal, Dutch dismissal law was simply followed. We would like people who harm a company in this way simply to be dismissed without further payment, without departure arrangements etc. However, Dutch labour law is not that big a deal. Then we need to change the Civil Code and lay down grounds for dismissal. Lawyers who often chop with this axe then advise NS and say whether NS has a chance or whether it is worth considering settling. NS decides on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u67	I think that is a key question. The Minister states that in his reply. Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Civil Code are crystal clear: you almost have to be caught by hand in the greenhouse to be fired immediately. That happens in this case with the CEO of Abellio. That is the reason for this whole matter and also the reason why the Minister of Finance states in his letter that there is no compensation for departure. Has the Minister of Finance, as a shareholder, been properly informed whether this is indeed a reason for dismissal, a reason to put this person on the street? Afterwards, in January of this year, it turned out that a substantial redundancy allowance was actually paid. On June 5th, my conclusion is that we are not paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u68	Involved wasn't caught by hand in the greenhouse. There has been a bad policy. There have been careless decisions taken, even in such a way that the company has acted in violation of the law. Whether or not certain parties involved, key players, are directly and personally to blame, we will not remember now because it has not been brought to justice, unless the prosecution still takes that up. A question has been asked about this; I will return to it in a moment. There are very different things in labour law. The first question is, can you fire someone on the spot? It's very precisely defined when that's allowed. In the Netherlands, this is very limited. Even if you and I were to say 'a great deal has gone wrong here; it cannot be', then that can be the case. All NS can do is disable someone. Then you get a conflict or a negotiation about whether that is imminent. Payment must be made on account of the fact that the person concerned has not been fired immediately. That payment then comes in the media as the departure bonus and the golden handshake. But that's how Dutch dismissal law works. It is extremely difficult to do very serious things; therefore I mentioned the example of the hand in the greenhouse and caught in the act in order to be able to fire someone without any compensation immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u69	That is precisely the point: the NS press release of 5 June contains exactly this point. It says that this person is held inactive and leaves without compensation, suggesting that it has been dealt with. The Minister says that he is not accessible to them because he is accessible to the directors, but who is accessible to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u70	That is therefore the responsibility of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board of NS. They could not have made the statement 'without any compensation' at that time and I should not have taken it over. A lot of questions have been answered with this. I'll walk them by. Mr Hoogland asked what action was taken in the reports. This concerns in particular the research and recommendations of Alvarez & Marsal. On 15 January, I informed the Chamber about the action plan that is now being carried out to provide more care in the NS and about just keeping to the law, about due diligence requirements and compliance. That all starts at the top. Mr Hoogland has asked what is going on with the widening of the grounds for clawback. That is the point we have raised before. The Code says at this point that you can only recover bonuses if the criteria on which you received the bonus are not met afterwards. In the case of Mr Huges, this would not be the case. He has still met certain criteria for the bonus. At the same time, a lot has gone wrong in another part of the company. That is why I asked the Minister of Justice to look into this. I will ask him what the state of play is on this point. It is therefore a question of broadening the possibilities of clawbacking. Mr Hoogland's third question was about how the NS Statute should be amended. These have been brought into line with the equity policy. This included the shareholder's control of the strategy and investment decisions. The most striking point is that investment decisions have now been brought below the threshold of 200 million where they were initially 2 billion. Only an investment of more than 2 billion had to involve the shareholder. Of course, that was far too high a limit. But the involvement in the strategy has also been increased. Mr Hoogland has proposed that the remuneration at the NS be brought more into line with the public character of the NS. Perhaps it would be a good idea to start the debate on the repositioning of the NS and then focus more on the public core task on the main rail network if it were to say goodbye to a number of commercial tasks. I understand Mr Hoogland's reasoning. In that case, the relationships between the public and private within the company have changed. I'm willing to look into that. I think it would be a good idea to start the debate with the Chamber on this repositioning, on tasks and main tasks, etc. Mr Madlener asked about the state of play in the criminal investigation. I don't know, and I'm not supposed to know. All I know is that the D.A. is working on it. However, I cannot give you the state of play. At least it's not set aside as far as I know. I have always said that Mr Huges was Commissioner at the Port of Rotterdam before he became head of the NS. He was based on his experiences and his network in the logistics world. The Port of Rotterdam has always expressed its satisfaction with its functioning as Commissioner. I said I'd wait and see. His reappointment was scheduled to take place on 1 March, but the nomination was currently held by the Port Authority. I will not take a position on this until the Supervisory Board presents it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u71	That's a little bit of looking into the headlight of the car and waiting for him to drive over you. It must be clear whether or not the Minister is going to go through with this man. If he no longer trusts Mr Huges, which I can imagine very well after this incident, is it better and more appropriate to report it to the Port Authority and not to wait for another very painful situation to arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u72	It is a bit strange to decide on a reappointment when the term of office has ended and there is no nomination for reappointment. That is the actual state of affairs at the moment. I have already indicated that the fact that I hold Mr Huges responsible for the mistakes he made and made under his responsibility in connection with the invitation to tender in Limburg is not an immediate reason for me to demand his resignation as Commissioner at the Port Authority. That is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u73	Can I therefore assume that if the Port Authority recommends Mr Huges for a new term, there is no problem as far as the Minister of Finance is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u74	I have nothing to add to my answer. I await any nomination from the Supervisory Board. It's kind of weird to make a decision about something that hasn't been proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u75	Last year we had a discussion about the discharge. Has the Minister granted discharge to the NS for the year 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u76	This is a new question, which was not asked in the first period. I'll check it out in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u77	The Minister will return to that in the second term, after having obtained information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u78	He's the shareholder. I'm just asking if there's been a charge on the company that's under criminal investigation, the drivers of which are suspected, while the company itself is a suspect. Didn't the Minister immediately say that he's not granting a discharge for the time being in 2015 because this is happening until it's clear what's coming out of that investigation from the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u79	This is another question, namely whether the Minister has said in advance that he will not give discharge. The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u80	Now the demand is changing again, but the question is simply clear. In 2015, there may have been fraud by a company the minister is 100% shareholder of. He is therefore responsible for the behaviour of the drivers. As a shareholder, you're not offering a charge until you know if the company is a criminal offence, and so are the directors? I therefore ask whether the shareholder has granted discharge for the year 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u81	That was the original question, which I said: I will check in a moment to see if that has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u82	You'll get that answer. The Minister doesn't have that ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u83	Then Mr Öztürk made the proposal that you should only give bonuses if you give them to everyone in the organisation. He asked me how I feel about that. As I have said, I am responsible for the remuneration policy for directors of state participations. This policy has been considerably weakened in recent years. We've limited bonuses to a maximum of 20%. That is what we are going through, but it is going through gradually, because we also have old contracts in the state participations. We're a long way from that. Whether bonuses are also provided elsewhere in the organisation of state participations is for the companies and management themselves. I'm not going over the whole pay house in State participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u84	I understand that, but it could be an appeal from the minister to the directors, to say: if you want to hand out a bonus to yourself, while there are also a lot of employees in the organisation who have worked hard and performed well, that he can only approve it if you also ensure that other hardworking people get a bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u85	It's nice, but I don't think it makes any sense. For variable remuneration all agreements are made when one gets them and what one must have done. This will therefore be different for someone who works as a technical mechanic in the maintenance company of the NS and for someone who is a engineer or for someone who works in the management. Those are all different criteria. You can't say that the management of the company can only get a bonus if everyone has had a bonus. These bonuses must be linked to the individual contribution, based on performance numbers. Again, for me there is no bonus to be paid at all. The only thing I agree with the state's participations is that it is up to 20%, because I want to avoid creating the wrong incentive for very large bonuses, which will dominate short-term interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u86	If a company is successful, it is never up to the management itself, but then several people have worked hard. Those people will see that only the drivers get that. If drivers do bad, they will see that they will then receive a further exit bonus. In order to break that culture, as a supervisory board, you can say that you want to approve the bonus if they also set criteria for those who can help shape the success. That would get those drivers thinking, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u87	I believe that bonuses should be handled with restraint, hence the maximum. I believe that they should then be granted on the basis of real and substantive criteria. That goes for everyone within a company. Whether everyone and or all types of functions in a company lend themselves to a piece of variable reward, really needs to be looked at per company. Not all functions lend themselves to that. However, I do think that this is perhaps a broader issue, which should be looked at much more closely in the pay policy at the top in terms of remuneration policy throughout the organisation, rather than merely looking at the vertical position of competitors. In the top of the business world, there is always a tendency to look only at what is being paid at the top of the neighbor's house. People know where that leads: always increases in salaries. I call on directors to look at the entire company's pay structure to find out if that is still fair and understandable. Mr Bashir asked for the opinion of the national attorney. He said that this opinion was not shared with the Chamber in good time. That opinion was on Mr Huges and on whether there could still be an immediate resignation in the case of Mr Huges. This would also have implications for his right to payment of wages. We have sent the lawyer's advice to the Chamber confidentially for inspection. In a situation where there is a labour dispute, it would of course be very strange to start sharing such legal advice, while there is no legal outcome at all. As soon as there was a legal outcome, namely the settlement with Mr Huges...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is a pity that this is then seen as withholding information, because the opposite was the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u88	Just to be clear, the opinion starts with "Today, on 10 July 2015." Can the Minister confirm that he was aware of the advice of the national attorney earlier than 10 July 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u89	I don't think so. If the opinion starts with "10 July," it is evident that it was drawn up on 10 July. I sent it to the Chamber after there was a settlement, to show it to the Chamber and to explain why this ended in a settlement. That is why I sent that underlying report to the Chamber confidentially and for information. That was August 6th.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u90	Again, has the Minister received no advice from the state attorney in any way before 10 July 2015? The second shareholders meeting of the NS also took place on that 10 July. It seems very strange to me that on the same day he was not given any advice from the national attorney. I think it would be more logical for him to be informed of this earlier. Can the Minister find out when he was actually aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u91	Sometimes I find it very difficult to understand the relevance of a question, but if Mr Bashir wants to know that, I will ask my officials whether we have previously known about the content of the opinion of the national attorney dated 10 July. Was that the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u92	Yeah, and they're gonna figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u93	According to Mr Bashir, I would have called Mr Huges "a great fraud." I don't remember that quote. I believe that Mr Koolmees had the right quote of how I judged Mr Huge's actions. Mr Bashir also made comments about the future of the NS: what are we doing, what are we not doing? Perhaps we should have the debate on that another time. I shall now turn to Mrs De Vries' questions. The dismissal was inevitable, but there was no compelling reason. That has to do with provisions in the Civil Code. Mrs De Vries also expressed her surprise and irritation. I agree with her. How can you make such mistakes and still be entitled to an exit fee? I tried to explain this without necessarily wanting to defend it. It follows from our labour law. Mrs De Vries continued to ask about the state of play in the current procedures. There is still an ACM investigation into the possible infringement of the Competition Act. This is a question of abuse of power, of abuse of market position. There's also a criminal investigation going on by the D.A.'s office. I don't think I should say that, although I never really understood why. However, this is up to the D.A., so we have to wait and see. I have now answered Mr Omtzigt's questions, except for those concerning the reason for postponing the publication of the annual report of the NS. Did that delay have anything to do with the settlement decision? I don't believe that. I didn't know that publication was postponed. At least I didn't get involved in that. Mrs De Vries asked a very intriguing question: what would have happened to Mr Huge's allowances if there were no mistakes in the dismissal procedure? Suppose, Mr Huges had immediately made it clear that he really would not offer his resignation himself and that the chairman of the Supervisory Board had immediately initiated the dismissal procedure even before that discussion with Huges. Even then, under Dutch law of dismissal on the basis of the Civil Code, there would have been no grounds for immediate dismissal. He'd have been put out of action. Then an arrangement should have been made. Now, in the end, the scheme was such that it paid back the bonus which had previously been paid. From my point of view, I say that he has received €175,000 in payment of salary. When you're out of business, the salary is paid. No bonus, but salary over that period and no other golden handshakes or other departure arrangements; that was the outcome. If the dismissal procedure had been initiated immediately and carefully and if the President of the Supervisory Board had properly informed everyone, the same right of payment would probably have occurred during that period. Mr Madlener asked the question how you explain this to people. Well, it is extremely difficult to explain that such things go wrong, and that people are still entitled to payment during their resignation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u94	I see Mr Omtzigt getting up. Is that for an interruption, or are you ready for the second term? That's okay, because we still have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u95	Yes, Mr President, we still have one, but I just checked it out: the general meeting of the shareholders of the NS took place on 3 March 2016, exactly a week ago. There is only one 100% shareholder. That is what we are talking about at the moment. There is, of course, one decision that is central to the shareholders' meeting, and that is the granting of discharge or not. I would therefore ask the Minister once again simply to answer in the first term whether the investigation of the prosecution has been granted discharge in 2015, the year in which possible fraud was committed in the NS, at the NS summit for the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u96	I know by now that the shareholders have been granted a discharge. This does not mean that the policy pursued has been adopted in all respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u97	So if you're granting discharge, you don't have the right to come back on anything else. My mouth's falling open. So there's a lawsuit against a state-owned company. All kinds of drivers have left, with all kinds of arrangements. They're totally convicted. The Railroad Act has been broken. The Competition Act has been broken. We do not know the results of all these procedures and we hear here that there was just discharge last week! What then should happen to a state-owned company before the Minister does not give discharge and simply says: wait a few months first, then we will first see who made a mistake, which people from the supervisory board have misinformed me and which directors have not told me what is going on? As a shareholder, you wouldn't give a discharge if, for all we know, your company could still be convicted by the judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u98	It is more common for procedures to be carried out against companies. I do not need to explain to you how often that happens in the financial sector. However, a charge is granted to a company. It happens. We do not know at all whether the investigation of the prosecution will lead to criminal prosecution. We don't know how long this is gonna take either. These are not matters which must necessarily lead to the postponement of the granting of discharge or the failure to grant discharge over the policies pursued.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u99	I had a question about a second term for Mr Huges, now that his role is so dubious. The Minister says: I separate these matters entirely from his operation at the Port Authority. I find it very difficult to believe that, but has the Minister at any time been pulsed by the Port Authority? Has there been any contact between the Port Authority and the Ministry as to whether a follow-up period could be discussed? I can't imagine people doing this out of the blue now that this whole affair is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u100	Sure, there's been contact. My position is, as I said to the Chamber earlier, that his actions in the NS case, which led the supervisory board and the shareholder to lose confidence in him as CEO of the NS, should not mean that he should also be dismissed as Commissioner for the Port Company. You cannot agree with that, but that is my position. Whether or not he's re-appointed is really a separate decision. It is now primarily up to the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u101	Many citizens are also watching the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u102	You think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u103	I think so, because a lot of people are suffering from NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u104	Can you come to a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u105	If you're a shareholder, you're giving discharge for the policies and the finances, doesn't the shareholder have to sign somewhere? Apparently, you signed something. Mr Omtzigt asked if you had done so. You say, "I don't know." Then there must be a text message to you that you have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u106	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u107	How can you say here you don't know? That's impossible, isn't it? You're the only shareholder. Here's what you need to know. I assume you've signed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u108	My director's funding represents me in this under my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u109	Yes, but it is an important decision, where there is fraud and about which there is so much discussion. You are responsible for what your officials do. If your officials don't do their job properly, you'll get a motion of censure. I assume you know what you signed up for or didn't sign up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u110	Sure, it's all my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u111	That seems to me to be a clear answer. The Minister takes responsibility for what happened there. We have had a good first term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. We're still waiting for information from the Minister. Is there a need for a second-term contribution in the meantime of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u112	There is a need for a second deadline, but there is also a need for information. Maybe we can suspend until the information gets here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u113	Fine, I'll take a look at the minister. How long before the information gets here? There are two questions for information. Information was requested on the contact between the Ministry and NS between the letter of 5 June 2015 and February 2016. The second request was information on whether the advice of the national attorney was available earlier than 10 June 2015. Can the Minister tell us how quickly he can bring that information to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u114	I'll check it out. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u115	Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u116	Normally we would now begin with the participation of Members of Parliament in the second term, but the Minister still has some information to provide and will do so before we proceed to the second term of the Chamber. He'll do that verbally. I am therefore happy to give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u117	Mr. Chairman. In any case, there were still two questions for precise information. The first was the question about the state attorney. We've made the advice of the Land Attorney's office this is about the dismissal of Huges, dated 10 July, confidentially filed for inspection by the Chamber. Mr Bashir asked if I had not heard of the opinion of the national attorney before. On June 18th it became clear to us that Huges had not resigned himself. At that time, procedures were started, and the national attorney has always been involved, in an advisory capacity. What does this mean legally? What do we have to do now to declare the resignation and start it? The country's attorney has been closely involved in this. I wrote that to your Chamber in the letter of 31 August 2015. In it, I wrote that the dismissal procedure that was initiated at that time for repair was carried out in close cooperation with the national attorney. On 10 July, Mr Huges was formally dismissed at the shareholders' meeting and the lawyer of Huges immediately announced that he would bring an interim action. That's what the Land Attorney has been asked for. On the same day, the national attorney separated the opinion on the discharge of Mr Huges as a result of that dismissal decision. That's how it happened. That was the country's attorney's involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u118	I asked this question because I thought the date of 10 July 2015 was artificially put on the letter to make it right in the time relationship, but I now understand that the country's lawyer had already started working in close consultation with the Ministry. The Minister also said that the resignation was July 18th, but it was June 18th. My question to the Minister is as follows. The letter from the national attorney, the opinion, ends with the remark that it is best to settle with Mr Huges, the former top man of the NS. When was the date when the state's attorney gave that advice to the minister? We now understand that 10 July is the formal date of the letter, but when did the Minister know at the earliest that he, or that NS, could best settle with Huges?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u119	I assume on the basis of the opinion of 10 July. I can't see it any other way. I sometimes try to understand the purpose of the question in order to be able to answer it, but the opinion was written in black and white by the national attorney on 10 July following the announcement of an interim injunction. That's when we knew there was going to be an interim injunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u120	I can't make my question more beautiful than it is. The letter from the state attorney was written in black and white on July 10th, but before that, the state attorney went out with the minister and the ministry. The minister was given advice. Then it will be said to the Minister at some point: it is best to settle. I want to know when that was, because we are now finding out that the date of this letter has been artificially put on it. That wasn't July 10th. Even before, the Minister knew a few things about the state attorney. Then I want to know when that was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u121	Sorry, Mr President, we must continue to hold this debate seriously. I indicated that this opinion was written on 10 July, dated 10 July. That date hasn't changed artificially at all. I do not understand how Mr Bashir can make this kind of serious accusation in my direction. I take that extremely seriously. If I were to do that and if the state attorney's counsel were to antedate, there was something really serious going on here. Mr Bashir should not make that kind of accusation so easy either. He can do that in an attempt to harm the minister. I know that's how it works, but you can't just blame someone for pieces being antedated. That is extremely serious. That's out of the question. I said that the lawyer was involved when it appeared on 18 June that Mr Huges had not resigned at all and should therefore still be dismissed. Then how do you do that in this incorruptible situation? That's what the state's attorney advised. This ultimately led to Mr Huge's resignation at the shareholders' meeting on 10 July. On the same day, Mr Huges' lawyer announced an interim action. Then the state attorney put on paper what this now meant for the sequel. July 10th. There can be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u122	The minister says I'm seriously blaming him, but I'm not blaming him at all. I'm just saying what I notice. The Minister himself wrote to the Chamber in a letter dated 31 August 2015 that the state attorney had been closely involved in the whole procedure since 18 June. Then we have here a letter of 10 July stating that it is best to settle. My question is very simple. When was the first time the Minister or the Department of the State Attorney heard that the Ministry and the NS were best placed to settle? That's the question. The Minister says I have to look at the date of July 10th because it was written in black and white, but I just want to know the date. When did the secretary of state attorney hear that he could settle best?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u123	That question has now been answered three times. That's July 10th. There's one date on the country's attorney's advice. What I took offense about, also in political terms, is that not only was it suggested, but it was literally said that the date on the piece was falsified, that a date was set that wasn't right. We shouldn't blame each other for that type of thing. In the traffic between Chamber and Cabinet, there must be a basis of trust. If Mr Bashir says this sort of thing here, that there are parts of it that are supposed to falsify the image, then that is an extremely serious political reproach. If Mr Bashir takes it back, fine, sand over it. If he doesn't, I can't imagine that he wouldn't table a motion of censure against me. It can't be that I'd inform the Chamber with documents that have a false date on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u124	I have to agree with the Minister that an allegation that something has been made is indeed a firm statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u125	Then the Minister has to answer my question. When was the first time the minister heard from the state attorney's ministry that the best thing could be done with the top man of NS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u126	Mr Bashir, you have indeed asked that question three times. I even gave you a third chance to ask that question. The Minister answered that question three times, but in your opinion that question has not been sufficiently answered. I'm giving the Minister the room to answer again. If the Minister insists on his answer, we will not go on after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u127	It is a very clear question, and it has now been answered three times: on 10 July, in the opinion of the national attorney that I gave confidential access to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u128	But before that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u129	I am now saying this for the fifth time: in the opinion of the national attorney written on 10 July and given confidentially to the Chamber for inspection. When people ask a question five times, I don't think they trust the answer and we put ourselves in a difficult position. Then there's the other matter. The timeline previously sent to the Chamber ends at the end of August. That timeline was given in a letter of August 31, so that makes sense. In that letter, I wrote that this matter had been settled in the hands of the board of directors. The question has been asked whether there has been any subsequent contact with the Ministry. The Ministry has been informed that there have been discussions on the completion of the employment contracts, but no more than that. In doing so, NS and the shareholder agreed that such resolution should be as sober as possible. That's the only thing that changed there. We were then informed by NS in a letter dated 29 January that it was appropriate. That letter came to the Ministry on 1 February. That's the timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u130	That was at the time when the former chairman of the Supervisory Board had already quit, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u131	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u132	At that time, the Minister had to do with the remaining members of the Supervisory Board knowing that these were the same members who had failed to resign Mr Huges. I suppose the Minister was on top of it at the time to ensure that no second blunder was committed by the same board of Commissioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u133	Once again, Mr Madlener's question contains the suggestion that the case of the Abellio CEO would also have been blundered. That's not true. On the basis of the fact-finding complex, the man has been deactivated. As is the case in Dutch labour law, the contract of employment has then been completed. Mr Madlener would like to see me, too, that was also the commitment that someone would be fired immediately without getting anything, but under Dutch labour law that would not be possible. The conclusion of this contract of employment, as I wrote in August, came into the hands of the Governing Council. In the end, this also led to a settlement, with payment of wages being made during the period during which he was held inactive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u134	We have already dealt with this issue quite extensively in the first period, Mr Madlener. You may ask a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u135	In the first case, therefore, the chairman of the Supervisory Board has resigned, because wrong information has been given to the Minister. That was a reason for that one person to quit. The rest of that board of directors was still there. I do not think the Minister is happy with the second decision of the same Supervisory Board either. He is obviously well informed about this and agrees with all of them, because no action has been taken by him against those same members of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u136	No, because there was certainly no blunder in that second case. In the first case, that of Huges, there was a blunder. The Supervisory Board and the shareholder assumed, on the basis of the information provided by the President of the Supervisory Board, that Huges had resigned himself for weeks. Turns out it wasn't. That was a mistake. The handling of all other cases of people who were involved, all of whom had been rendered inactive, took place as in the Netherlands goes under labour law. Mr Madlener may be unhappy with the outcome, but that does not mean that the Supervisory Board has failed there. Cases have simply been settled on the basis of case law and the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u137	Now it's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u138	No, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u139	I want to finish this question, Mr. Chairman. It was just allowed in three terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u140	No, I've given everyone here and there room. There will soon be room for a second term. So I'm not gonna do it anymore. Mrs De Vries may also intervene briefly. Then I want to move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u141	I asked what went wrong in the trial in the first term. The Minister is actually saying that nothing has gone wrong at all. The fact is that a press release by NS that was later taken over by the Minister stated that no departure fees would be paid. I think that's a mistake, if you know that it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u142	Sure. That happened on June 5th. That's when at least two mistakes were made. The first is that the chairman of the Supervisory Board came out of the discussion with Huges with the announcement that Huges would resign, which was not the case and was not the case. The second was that in the press release of the Supervisory Board of that day, which I took over, it was announced that the CEO of Abellio would also be turned off and leave without a departure plan. That too could not be achieved. That's where it went wrong. The settlement was finally achieved under current Dutch law and the employment protection that people have on that basis. This applies not only to drivers, but to everyone. So I make a distinction between the settlement itself and the communication about it. The position of the honourable Member of the PVV, Mr Madlener, is that something went wrong with the settlement. No, it went wrong at first, on June 5th
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u143	I am glad the Minister says that mistakes have been made in that process. I hope they learn from that. In any case, labour law is not new. The BW existed a long time ago and those urgent reasons were already known. I think that could have been checked very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u144	Sure. That's just true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u145	After the Minister heard from the Supervisory Board on 5 June that no compensation is being paid to the director who has been dismissed, he is very quick to communicate to the Chamber. In the autumn, therefore, there will be all kinds of traffic between the NS and the Ministry, the Minister, and it appears that what has been said unfortunately cannot be complied with. This was formally communicated by letter on 1 February and a general consultation on State participation was held on 3 February. Hasn't there been a moment in all these months when the Minister thought: you know what, I was wrong here too; let me just send a letter to the Chamber myself; I can't keep up with my previous statements, because I did it in the letter of the Chamber? Every time, we have to draw this minister through newspaper articles and other means before we hear when information is corrected, in every file. Why didn't the Minister just spontaneously send a letter to the Chamber and write: no matter how sorry I am, it didn't work out; I'm just telling you that? I see he regrets it. I truly believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u146	Mr Omtzigt always tends to confuse all kinds of dossiers. That's his right, so let's not get into that. He says in his speech that it was clear much earlier that this would be the outcome, but of course I cannot report anything to the Chamber until there is a result. I wrote that the assignment was in the hands of the NS to deal with these cases, those other dismissal cases. I couldn't inform the Chamber about that until after there was an outcome. On 1 February, they arrived in the form of a brief communication from the NS, to which my people asked for further explanations. A further letter of consideration was issued on 8 February. In between, the AO has been about state participations. I'm not responsible for handling the other cases. I will continue to do so, otherwise I fear that in future I will be obliged to inform the Chamber about all labour disputes in State participations. I am appealing to the appointment, dismissal and reward of the supervisory board and the board of state participations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u147	That is true, but I would not have asked this question if the Minister had not spontaneously informed the Chamber that these people were not getting a ransom. That's why he should have informed me the second time. If he hadn't done that the first time, he could have. But now that he says this, can we give any reason why the NS is apparently providing summary information on 1 February? What additional information will the Minister receive from the NS on 8 February? Does he consider that information sufficiently substantiated? One question from my first term was still open. It is appropriate on the basis of the available information. Has the legal opinion also taken into account the fact that a criminal investigation was still open? Of course, that makes a lot of difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u148	Then we will deal with the content of the outcome of the other eight cases. In total, Huges plus another eight employees elsewhere in the NS/Abellio organisation. I'm sorry, but I'm not going along with that. This is about private contracts between an employer and an employee. They've been settled in a labor dispute. I'm not going to publicly judge whether that happened properly. I can't give the Chamber any information on that. Then I'd be way out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u149	But with regard to Mr Omtzig's factual question, what was the difference in information between the first and the second letter, you might be able to provide information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u150	But then I share information with the Chamber on the handling of private law matters. The first note said that settlements had been made. Then the Ministry asked if it could know more. There was a second letter, with a little more information. I know that Mr Omtzigt always attaches great importance to the obligation to provide information, but I attach great importance to protecting the position of people who are involved, even if they have made mistakes. Mr Omtzigt says that I must tell the Chamber now, but I am not going to do that, because I simply cannot do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u151	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u152	Now that this minister is indeed adopting a principled attitude, I would like to hear his opinion on the fact that he spoke about this in June 2015. Is that wise or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u153	I already told you. I took it from the press release of the Supervisory Board of the NS. I shouldn't have done that. I should have left that on them. It was their verdict. It wasn't my jurisdiction either. I'm not dealing with the settlement. I should not have said with so much certainty that it did not lead to an exit fee, as I had literally taken over from the press release. I've said that before. This was a supplement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u154	Thank you very much. I see that there is a need for a short second term. I think we have discussed the most important points well and the Minister has replied extensively, so let us keep the second period really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u155	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I'm gonna stand here with a hard feeling. The Minister also rightly states that this cannot be explained. In that famous letter of 5 June it appeared that there were two inaccuracies. Some of them came in because the minister was misinformed by the Supervisory Board. It is about the Huges case, but also about the other director, Abellio. Looking back, this has just been a bad process, because in the end, twice is suitable. I asked in my first term how the Minister looks at this in a broad sense. In the debate, the Minister takes the formal view that he is about the directors and not about the layers below. I understand that, but I'm surprised in this situation. It is true that there are eight cases involved. That's what the Minister just said. There are considerable financial consequences, but there are also many reputational risks and court cases involved. Of course, as a shareholder, the Minister is responsible for this. He will also be in contact with the Supervisory Board on this point. That's why we keep asking questions. What has the Minister learned from this? And is the Minister also at the top of the case? This concerns eight major cases, it is contrary to the Railway Act and there are high costs involved. I would therefore like to hear an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u156	Mr. Chairman. This is a matter which is not beautiful, which has now been settled legally and which has been chosen from two evils. But it doesn't stay morally beautiful. The Minister says he will take a number of actions in response to our first-term questions. That seems to me to be a good thing. Finally, I would like to table a motion on a related issue, namely the level of salaries in the NS. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the NS in its new strategy indicates its desire to act more on the basis of public values;]] [[Considering that the NS intends to leave to a large extent the operation of retail and real estate which is not serviceable to the transfer, chain, residence or commercial facilities for travellers;]] [[considers that this should also be translated into the NS remuneration policy;]] [[calls on the Government, bearing in mind the new NS strategy, to review the NS's remuneration policy and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u157	My question is, of course, how it should be revised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u158	I'll answer with one word. I know that Mr Madlener and I agree on this point, despite some nasty insinuations in the first term. I'd like to mention that last point. The PVV also supported the WNT2. So there's only one way to do this. So the one word is "down."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u159	According to the WNT2?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u160	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I left this open on purpose. Indeed, equity policy is different from state-owned companies alone. So we can take a big step on paper now, but I wonder if that is effective. For now, therefore, there is a request to find out. I do not want to go into the Chamber to determine how much euro the director of NS has to earn, but the amount has to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u161	I would like to ask Mr Hoogland for a more detailed explanation. How far down does it have to go? What does he think is the right kind of reward? It is of course important for the parties in the Chamber to know that. So he says, not WNT2. So they can continue to earn more than Prime Minister Rutte. But how much more can they continue to earn in the eyes of the PvdA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u162	This is a question I have actually answered. So I am not going to answer that question, because I do not think it is at all the job of the Chamber to determine the salary of the director of NS. This is a careful consideration that has been made in equity policy. That's where it's gonna have to stay. The character of the company will change. It's gonna be a more public company. In this context, you might want to consider whether the public element should be given a greater role in that salary. That would mean that the salary would go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u163	The WNT is very clear in that respect. If a company has a full public task and does not compete with anyone, the WNT applies. If there is a degree of competition, then certain policies apply to remuneration. Shortly: the more the company is in the market, the higher the reward can be. ABN AMRO clearly has a private task, also according to the PvdA. The AFM or the Nederlandsche Bank really have a public task. We don't have a second Dutch Bank. I'd like to ask a different question. Does the PvdA Group consider that the NS has been given a 100% public task with a new strategy? Or is it still a mixture? And if so, how is the mixture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u164	I note that we are almost opening a whole new discussion. Mr Hoogland has tabled the motion. That is why I give him the opportunity to ask that question, but I would like to make sure that we have two debates this evening. You have the floor, Mr Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u165	That was some kind of mini-college. I like that myself. It was clip-and-ready how it works right now. I'm not going to comment on the exact height. Mr Omtzigt also knows that. The CDA did not support the WNT2. So I think we're in agreement and I expect him to support the motion. I think it would be a good idea to leave the work to the cabinet. When asking whether the NS is 100% a public company, I would like to point out that it is of course not. The NS is and will continue to engage in commercial activities. That's what the NS does abroad. So you should be looking at that affair. That is a careful reasoning. I assume that Mr Omtzigt agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u166	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I pointed out a culture in which people get away with rewards, when everyone actually thinks they don't deserve them. Unfortunately, this debate is an example of this culture. Nothing's changed. The Minister has been very formalistic and legal. I understand that, but I think that the Minister should certainly be more problem-solving in this public debate. Surely it can't be that two cheating top drivers, Huges and Hoogesteger, leave with huge amounts of €175,000 and €250,000? One member of the Supervisory Board has quit. The same board of Commissioners is almost unchanged. Can't they get away with it? So nothing changes. Then the motion of the PvdA. Although it calls for a reduction in the salary, it then refuses to clarify it. So I don't know what to do with that. As far as we are concerned, they are covered by the WNT2. My previous comments on the behaviour of the PvdA are, of course, referring to the many cases of boyfriend politics within the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u167	No, no, no. We're not gonna do that here. You are also at the end of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u168	Just a personal fact. I let this go the first time, because we're used to this from the PVV. We shouldn't do this. If we are to have serious debates here in the Chamber on subjects that concern a great many people, we must not create the atmosphere that Mr Madlener is creating. I'm gonna distance myself from that. My party has nothing to do with this either. I'd say let's leave it at that. I think that's best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u169	Very good. This is a personal fact. There's no response to that. Mr Madlener's speaking time is over. So we go on to Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u170	Mr President, I would like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u171	No, this was a personal fact. There's no response from the other side. Mr Hoogland has the opportunity to mention a personal fact. We're not gonna have a whole discussion about that. You were also at the end of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u172	Mr. Chairman. We have had a long debate. As a movement, we have also tabled a proposal to prevent a huge number of bonuses being distributed in the future. The Minister said that was a sympathetic idea. I made a motion to see if the government is prepared to investigate that further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that it is unfair that drivers can receive a bonus of one year's salary and that ordinary workers can often receive a bonus of up to one or two months;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an exploratory study of the possibilities of introducing a proportionate bonus system in which organisations offer their employees, from director to cleaning lady, an equal number of salary months bonus when functioning properly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u173	Mr. Chairman. I have occasionally listened with surprise to the answers of the Minister of Finance. For example, a simple question was asked: did you give discharge at the NS shareholders' meeting on last year's policies? The Minister of Finance, the shareholder on behalf of all of us, just didn't know that. Officials had to nod yes, after which the Minister replied: yes, I gave discharge. I'm surprised. This minister must be on top of it, especially after what has happened in recent years. I do not understand why the Minister is okay with it all. Following the question I asked five times about the date of the country's attorney's opinion, I conclude that the Minister was not informed by the national attorney that the Ministry and the NS could best settle with the former NS top man before 10 July 2015, in any way, not in writing, not verbally or not officially. I conclude, because the Minister did not really want to answer. We assume so, otherwise the minister should just say when he...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u174	But that point you have discussed extensively and you are also at the end of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u175	... has an answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u176	Mr Bashir, you will conclude, because you have been over your speaking time for half a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u177	I am dissatisfied with the way in which the minister as shareholder directs the NS. He can do much better than that. He's gotta be on top of it a lot more. It's about a lot of money, it's about big interests. In that respect, we need someone with passion, someone who goes for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u178	We also need speakers who are able to keep to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u179	Mr. Chairman. The VVD has two more cases. A brief mention has just been made of the granting of the discharge. We assume that this will not affect the criminal investigation currently under way by the Public Prosecutor. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. I fully agree with the Minister that we should keep the responsibilities of shareholder, supervisory board and board of directors clear. The same applies to the responsibility of the Minister in this regard. I think it is a good thing that the Minister indicated that he should have been clearer on this in the letter and that he should not have taken over the NS texts. We would like the Minister to deal with this purely in the future. That was also our first-term question, to which the Minister has not yet answered: how does he deal with this in the future? In the first term, I had the same question as D66: what did the minister himself learn from this resignation soap opera? What would he have done or should have done in retrospect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u180	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. The confidence of the CDA Group in the way the NS is politically controlled has not increased after this debate. First, we got fired. Turns out that wasn't a discharge. After that, there would be no compensation. However, there was a fee. After that, eight more were fired without compensation. That was another eight layoffs with fees. Every time we have to read it in the paper. A shareholder, a 100% shareholder, who had a shareholders' meeting a week ago and who doesn't remember very well whether a discharge was granted; I try to understand it, but it's not very pleasant. I therefore ask for only one commitment from this Minister. Can he inform us immediately when cases occur in the criminal investigation and in the ACM investigation? I shall not table a motion to that effect. I think it is simply the duty of the government to keep us informed of this kind of intransigence. This is not only in the interests of the state and taxpayers, but also of all those hard-working NSs. Many of them will lose their jobs in the near future, and they have not cheated but worked hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u181	I understand the Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u182	Mr. Chairman. There has been a fraud case within the NS concerning the invitation to tender of Limburg. This has far-reaching consequences, not only for those who are responsible for it, but also for our confidence in the way the NS deals with its position. Measures have been taken in response to this. The facts in this case have come to light through internal investigations that have been validated externally. On the basis of external advice, a series of actions have been launched to avoid repetition within the NS. Two things went wrong in the termination of the contract. The chairman of the Supervisory Board had the resignation interview with Huges. There was a carelessness at the time, so that there was no de facto dismissal, with all the consequences. Even if the resignation had been initiated by the Supervisory Board on the same day, Mr Huges would still have been able to claim departure allowances. The same goes for Abellio's CEO. There is a lot of frustration about that, in all of us, but at that point you cannot say that things have been careless or that there would have been another outcome if I had been on top of it as a shareholder. We may find that annoying to hear, but those are the facts. This is how the right of dismissal is built in the Netherlands. It says when you are allowed to put someone out of the door immediately without further payment. In this debate, however, there remains the suggestion that there would have been no compensation for departure if the holder had been more active in the above or, for example, more involved in the settlement of Abellio's CEO, but that is fundamentally incorrect. I'm sorry, too. I wish it were different. I wish that, by sitting on it more actively, I could have prevented people who were responsible for this fraud case from leaving without any departure arrangements. But it wouldn't have mattered. It has to do with the character of the Civil Code, with the way in which it is regulated, with the case law and with the nature of the blames that you can make to those involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u183	I wonder, because it was Mr. Huges himself who resigned, wasn't it? He resigned himself, only that was not properly handled by the chairman of the Supervisory Board. If it had settled that properly, it would have been different. You can quit on your own, can't you? If you do that verbally and if it's handled properly, isn't it legal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u184	Here's where you get to the core. Mr Huges had an exchange of views with Mr Van den Driest, the chairman of the Supervisory Board. He sent the President of the Supervisory Board the same day by e-mail: contrary to what you have communicated, I have not resigned at all. That information "I did not resign at all" was then not shared with the other Commissioners for weeks nor with the shareholder in the Ministry of Finance. If Mr Madlener were right and Mr Huges had indeed resigned himself, we would of course have had a completely different situation. Then he would have left without further compensation. That's what my ruling on 5 June was based on, on that wrong information. There is no evidence or any record of the thesis "Huges resigns himself" of 5 June, as it turned out afterwards. Then we have to accept that Huges apparently didn't resign himself: that doesn't prove anything and he denies it himself. In that situation, the same applies to the CEO of Abellio.......................................................................................................................................................................................... This cannot be done in the Dutch situation. Mr Madlener can find anything about that, but then he has to change labour law and the Civil Code. The role of the shareholder does not matter. Mr Madlener says that I am very formalistic and legal in these other matters. That is true, but even if I did not, and I would take full responsibility for it and pull it towards me, the shareholder cannot yet abandon labour law. Also, as regards the drivers, for whom I am responsible, I cannot unilaterally decide that anyone gets nothing. It's hard for people at home to understand. They think: why doesn't the Dijsselbloem intervene; why doesn't he just say that the man gets nothing? I don't do that because we live in the rule of law. Workers, even if they are drivers, have employment protection, which is governed by the Code and by case law. The result is that people are still being paid for after they have been put out of business. That's what we call an exit fee. As a shareholder, there's nothing I can do about it. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u185	I don't entirely agree with this. There is no obligation to settle. Of course, it could have come to trial. The Supervisory Board could have just stood firm and said: we simply want to continue with this resignation. That's when the judge comes in. It could have been different. It's not like there was no choice. I understand that, after consulting lawyers, there is voluntary provision for this, but it could not have been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u186	That's true. You can fight it out with the judge. This means that the period during which the person is inactive becomes longer. When lawyers say to NS 'know, you're going to lose this case', it ultimately means that the amount of money that the person concerned receives becomes even greater because the period in which he is now inactive has become even longer. In such a situation, therefore, it is considered whether there is a chance of winning this. If not, they say: let's settle quickly, because then we can limit the damage and close the case. That may be a legitimate consideration, but it is the responsibility of NS. It is important to highlight this point very sharply because otherwise we feel that because the shareholder would not be active enough, people with departure fees have left. It's not like that. Having said that, what have we learned from it? If there is a decision of the supervisory board and of the shareholder, you should be able to assume as a shareholder that this dismissal will be carried out carefully. That didn't happen. You can pull that all the way back to you from now on, but I don't want that. I want the Supervisory Board to function adequately and be careful in this type of procedure and that the Board should assume its responsibilities. At the same time "once bitten, twice shy" applies, so next time we will of course inform whether it is all settled, recorded and arranged. But I will not sit on the Supervisory Board's seat, otherwise we will no longer have State participations. State participations are enterprises in their nature and have forms of enterprise. It's the NS NV. There is a board of Commissioners that oversees day-to-day operations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u187	I fully agree with the Minister that he should not sit on the seat of the supervisory board or the board of directors, but it is clear that in the statements in the media and in letters to the Second Chamber that purity is also applied and that it is stated: I am not about it; the supervisory board or the board of directors is about that. I would therefore like the Minister to reflect these responsibilities in this pure way in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u188	Of course. In the first term, I have already indicated that I should not have accepted that sentence from the press release of the Supervisory Board. It was the council's thesis that he was going to take care of it that way. So I shouldn't have taken it over because I made it my position too, and then I had no responsibility for it. So that was an impossible situation. In future, that should not happen again. Mrs De Vries has asked whether the discharge will affect the investigation of the D.A.'s office. Of course, that will not be the case. The D.A.'s completely independent. Granting discharge is based on the facts that are known. The facts that are known have also led to far-reaching consequences. People have left, all kinds of measures have been taken in the organisation and a plan of action is being drawn up to put compliance, governance, etc. in order. The fact that the facts are known and the consequences that are and will be attached to them then enables the shareholder to give discharge. But that's about the facts. If the criminal investigation were to lead to very new facts, no discharge would have been granted. It's important to establish that. The answer to the question is even clearer: it has no influence whatsoever on the independent investigation of the prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u189	Mr Omtzigt, did you have a comment on the previous question? The Minister is just about to answer your questions, and it may be so neat to take that with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u190	I understand that, but with this the Minister has granted discharge for all matters already known in criminal investigations or known to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u191	I know the D.A. is investigating. Period. In addition, we have, of course, uncovered the complex of facts on the basis of our own investigations. Those well-known facts have been answered with actions and conclusions. People have been said goodbye, et cetera. That'll give you leverage over that complex. Again, that's not the same as "this is fantastic done." Decharge is granted on the basis of the facts known at that time. It always is. When, at a later stage, quite different facts suddenly become known, the shareholders' meeting of course was unable to give a discharge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u192	No, but the discharge has been granted, including to the supervisory board. A separate charge is granted to this...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u193	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u194	...for the actions. There are no reservations on any level. Therefore, unconditional discharge has been granted to the Supervisory Board for all known facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u195	For all known facts, taking into account all the conclusions already given to them, including by the Supervisory Board. People have been fired, actions have been launched and new people have been appointed to the board of directors, etc. That whole complex of facts, that is, everything that has gone wrong and the actions that have been followed, is the basis for giving discharge at the moment. Known facts and conclusions. Mr Omtzigt asked whether the Court could be informed immediately of the investigation and the ACM investigation. I need to be very precise about that. I'm not responsible, and I don't know what the D.A. is doing. So I don't know how to inform the Chamber about that. When the D.A. decides, it will announce it itself. It is not customary in the relations of our rule of law for the Minister to report this to the Chamber. I'm trying to formulate it carefully, because it's not that I don't want to inform the Chamber. The ACM is also independent and will make its own decision. The second case concerns the question of whether the Competition Act has been infringed. The ACM will also take a decision on this at some point. It is difficult for me to enter the independence of those institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u196	Last time, an attempt was made to force the judge not to disclose this. So the question is when a decision was taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u197	Not by this minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u198	No, not by the minister, but by the company. That wasn't the minister. The directors of the company have tried to do so. I would ask the Minister, when public facts can be made public or matters which the shareholder considers important but which cannot be made public, to simply communicate to the Chamber a confidential letter. The House attaches great importance to this, also in view of this debate. Those are not things that cannot be made public or that enter the trias politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u199	I would like to make that point. If necessary, we'll do it confidentially. I understand that, given the history of the Chamber, the Court attaches great importance to being informed as soon as possible about the current procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u200	Is the Minister ready with the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u201	I had the impression he was already moving on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u202	Now that Mr Koolmees is moving forward, I shall look again at his comments. I indicated what I learned from the mistakes that were made around 5 June, because there were two things that went wrong. Without sitting on the Supervisory Board's seat, I will ensure that, in future, finance is kept better and more closely informed in the handling of this kind of precarious situation. That, by the way, is something that should not be. I believe that the Supervisory Board is really responsible for carrying out a shareholder decision. That could be the dismissal of a driver. Then the Supervisory Board must have the professionalism to do so carefully and directly. That didn't happen here. Nevertheless, we are on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u203	I'm happy about that. I very much agree with the Minister that the Supervisory Board should simply do its job. I had asked another question, which the Minister has not yet answered, namely on the settlement of the Abelliocasus and the eight cases that are appropriate. There is a big reputational risk there, because it has been a big case, but there are also costs. If you see what the departure fees are in the end, it's about more than a million euros. Has the Minister informed himself as a shareholder of the resolution of this, precisely because there has been a great deal of attention to it and there is a great risk of reputation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u204	The complicated thing is that we are going back to the content of these eight cases. They're not all suitable. There were two expensive cases, the CEO of NS and the CEO of Abellio. That does not add up to more than a million, as Mr Koolmees said. I do not want to go into the details of all these employment records, because that is not careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u205	Let me rephrase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u206	Mr Koolmees rewords his question. That might make it easier for the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u207	I do not mention amounts and not officials, but it is clear that there is a major reputational risk for the NS and that there are potential costs, on which letters were also sent which were not entirely correct afterwards. I can imagine that the Minister is on top of it when it comes to dealing with it. In the debate we heard that the Minister himself was only informed at the time of the settlement. I find that striking and weird. In the meantime, I think the Minister should be briefed on how that case is being resolved and on the risks involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u208	Now we start the debate again. As far as these eight cases are concerned, I reported in August that they are in the hands of the board of NS. We knew there were still discussions about this. The only thing we exchanged with the NS is to do it as sober as possible. The NS very much agreed with that. Can we try to reduce the cost of all this? Are we gonna do it as sober as possible? A settlement was then reached at the end of January in the specific case of Abellio's ex-CEO. The Ministry has been informed, and no more than that. We were not asked whether we agreed. There is no question of asking: do you agree, Minister? The Minister doesn't make that decision. That part of the employment claim is covered by the NS. Anyway, I thought we already switched that. The Minister of Finance as shareholder is always interested in cost control. That is why our request was also a request, but that is just a request, because I cannot put labour law aside in order to deal with these matters as soberly as possible. It's not eight expensive settlements, if that's what you're gonna think, but it's two expensive settlements. Then I get to the motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 239 by Mr Hoogland and Mr Kerstens. I understand the reasoning of the motion. The State participations do not fall within the scope of the WNT. They are companies and they must also be run as companies. That's why we never brought it under the WNT. So how do we determine the salaries for the state's participations? In doing so, we make a weighting which part is really public and which part is private. For the private part we look at similar companies in the market. That ratio between audience and private is now 60-40: 60% audience and 40% private. When the activities of the NS are rearranged, it is logical to review the basket as well. This is part of the proposal for the new strategy, but we have not yet had a debate on it. That is what the motion is asking for and I can live with that. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. But I am not going to take it up until we have had a debate with the Chamber on what the future tasks of the NS should be. If Mr Koolmees says that he does not agree at all and that they have to keep baking those hamburgers, they have become a little more commercial. That's the logic. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u209	Mr Madlener, I do not want a debate on the strategy of the NS. There will be a separate debate on this. I think the Minister said that we are going to discuss how and what further together in that debate. If you have another question, you may ask it, but I am not opening the debate on the strategy of the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u210	The curious thing is that in last week's regulation I asked for a debate on the new strategy of the NS. The government parties blocked that debate. I wonder when that debate will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u211	You'll be served at your beck and call, I think. At least the Minister is prepared to have that debate with you. Let's see about that with another arrangement. Your interest in this subject is well known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u212	I think I already sent a small note to the Chamber a few weeks ago. I received the request before the NS had presented the strategy. At that time, the Chamber asked if it could be informed about this strategy and what the cabinet position would be. Perhaps it was the chairman who asked that question. I have indicated that we will come up with a cabinet position and that we will do so simultaneously with the response to the Fyra report. The request of the Chamber was also to keep that together. We're working on that right now. So that position comes to the Chamber and, of course, we will have a debate on it. It's, I think, more about the order; about what we do when. In the recital of the second motion, which in part No. Mr Öztürk said that drivers could receive a bonus of one year's salary. In the case of state participations, that is no longer the policy. For this the policy is: up to 20% of the fixed annual salary. This policy has already been implemented in the vast majority of state participations. This assumption in the recital is therefore incorrect. The motion calls for an exploratory study into the possibility of aligning bonus policies within a whole organisation. I can't do that. We have a remuneration policy for the state's participations that looks to its directors. According to the law, a shareholder can influence directors' remuneration through the shareholders' meeting. Or more precisely: on the remuneration policy for directors. We have views on how bonuses could fit in. What happens in the rest of the organisation is really up to the company: whether or not variable rewards, for whom and on what basis. So I cannot carry out this motion and must therefore discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u213	I am prepared to accept the change to the assumption proposed by the Minister. The motion merely calls for an exploratory examination of a bonus system, so that we may be able to avoid this kind of discussion. So it's nothing more than an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u214	In my opinion, today's discussion was not about the driver bonus system and its comparison with that for the other employees. Today it was more about the question of what drivers should get with when they have acted in such a way that they are farewelled; do they still get money with them and what do we think about that? This motion is about a proportional bonus system: if there are for the top bonuses, then also for the bottom. For me, there doesn't have to be a bonus system in a company. The only thing we have regulated in our directors' remuneration policy is that it will be no more than 20%, which, of course, has to be based on careful criteria and so on. I do not think it is logical to make that mean that bonuses should be paid in proportion throughout the company. That is really up to the companies that are themselves concerned with personnel policy. Otherwise, we would have to make it official services; we would have to cover the whole wage building throughout the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u215	I think this answer was pretty clear, Mr Öztürk. But you'll get one more really short clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u216	Mr President, the Minister is a Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u217	That's not the issue right now. I'd like a brief, enlightening question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u218	The enlightening question is as follows. If the workers, to whom the minister stands, also make a clear contribution, how can the Minister not think it logical that they too should receive a 20% bonus? We want to make that right, that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u219	I am first and foremost a servant of the Crown. In my private time I am also a member of the Labour Party. Mr Öztürk is right about that. That doesn't mean I'm a big fan of variable rewards; bonuses. It doesn't mean that I think everyone in any organization should have the right to bonuses. What I'm sending on is the remuneration policy for directors. I believe that this should be reasonable and take account of the whole wage structure. Variable rewards may be part of it, but not more than 20%. That's what we do. That's government policy. We are not going to impose on the whole organisation that there should be proportionate bonuses for everyone. That's not our approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u220	In doing so, I note that the Minister remains "dissuaded' in the judgment. I thank the Minister for his reply and I thank the spokesmen for their participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u221	We shall be voting on the motions next Tuesday.
