ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u1	I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The debate on the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities is nearing its completion in the House of Representatives, but there are still some points to be made. I asked the Secretary of State in the first place whether he would like to send the examination and review of existing legislation to the Chamber. In reply, I get that the legal Explanatory Memorandum describes by article which is complied with in each field. But that's not what I asked, and that's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that laws and regulations must not conflict with the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities;]] [[noting that existing legislation under the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities has been reviewed and reviewed;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber the review and review of all existing legislation and lower legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u3	I also have a question about the monitoring of this Convention by the College of Human Rights. When monitoring existing legislation, they consider whether or not it violates the Convention. Is this a test or not, I ask the Secretary of State. What if this college finds that the legislation is in breach of the Treaty? Is the Secretary of State obliged to take this opinion or can he ignore it? I'm on optional protocol. I understand, of course, that the government wants to study all the legal consequences of signing, but it is taking a very long time. Since 2007, the Netherlands has been working on this treaty and the Secretary of State told us that his colleagues in Foreign Affairs and Security and Justice are analysing socio-economic legislation and applying optional protocols in it, but it should be indicated when this analysis is ready? I'd like to get a reaction to this. During the debate last week, Mrs Voortman was right to point out that research has already been carried out into the feasibility of the optional protocols. The Secretary of State remained somewhat unclear about this. Is this research involved in the current analysis? In the debate I also indicated that I find it difficult for people to go to the Committee on the Rights of Persons with a disability if they have complaints about the implementation of the Convention. For that reason, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the optional protocol is inextricably linked to the present Convention;]] [[noting that the government has not yet signed the optional protocol;]] [[calls on the Government to rapidly sign the optional protocol,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u4	In my first speech, I paid a great deal of attention to the access to society of people with disabilities. As I said before, fine words cannot conceal the blow that this cabinet has committed to our social and public services. People with disabilities have seen their legal status deteriorate in recent years. This Secretary of State is waving away these problems with a lot of fine words and woolly language, but I still haven't received a real answer to the fact that people can't get care because the municipality doesn't provide care and facilities or the fact that a student has to take another study because the school building is not accessible. According to this State Secretary, the Participation Act should lead people with disabilities to regular work, while the introduction of the Participation Act provides for an additional stream of young people with a disability to the assistance. These are examples that give thought. That is not the step towards a society in which everyone can participate, is it? I have tabled an amendment to restore the right to care in the Youth Act and in the Wmo so as to address legal inequality and arbitrariness between municipalities. The Secretary of State has advised against this amendment. I hope that the parties in the Chamber will support it. I would like to dwell on the financial accessibility of our society. As I said, for people with disabilities the accessibility of a society stands or falls, being able to participate fully in such a society, with the thickness of the wallet. The SP and probably also the Secretary of State are increasingly receiving reports from people who do not care because they are unable to pay their own risk or the contribution requested by the municipality. This week we received support from the President of the University Hospitals of the Netherlands: the market forces and the cuts threaten the accessibility of our healthcare system, ten years of market operation has resulted in the care being thrown out of control and so it is really time to change direction. And no, not every municipality provides a concession for plausible additional costs that people with disabilities have. It is good that people can be compensated through the special assistance. But do people know how to find that way? Does the Secretary of State know how bureaucratic and humiliating this special assistance really is? Above all, people with middle incomes are the victims, because they are not compensated but they have to pay the high costs. You don't ask to have a limit and therefore not to pay more. It is striking how the Secretary of State ignores the accumulation in growing own contributions for people with disabilities, how he does not worry about his own risk, the penalty of being sick, which also hangs around people with restrictions like a millstone. They have almost always lost their own risk because of the care they need. They spend up to €3,000 a year more on healthcare costs than people without restrictions. It doesn't seem to interest the Secretary of State. I hope that the House of Representatives is more concerned with the people with disabilities and that it wants to do something about this distressing inequality and injustice. That is why we have also proposed to delete our own contribution, unless you stay in an institution for more than a year. In the latter situation, contributions are still fair because people in an institution do not have certain costs that they do have at home. I have another question with regard to the Tickets Act. I understand that the municipalities have a responsibility to make voting rooms accessible. It is still unclear to me what role the Home Office has in this. Can the Secretary of State further explain this? A positive point is that the cabinet is investigating and developing better opportunities for blind and visually impaired people to vote. We await these proposals with interest. Making society accessible to people with disabilities has everything to do with mentality. I asked questions about this, but I did not have a clear response. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that people with disabilities are especially taken into account by policy makers at all political levels? How do these policy makers get to know that accessibility is more than just lowering a threshold or creating a disabled toilet? How is this handled? Are there blind spots in public administration or in society when it comes to accessibility? I'll come to a conclusion. I would like to follow up on the Van Dijk and others amendment. Another word to small and medium-sized enterprises and to the entrepreneurial Netherlands. It is feared that the adoption of this amendment will lead to a disproportionate burden on small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that there is a change in thinking about accessibility for people with disabilities. Accessibility must become normal and inaccessibility becomes the exception. I ask them: who could be against that starting point? Do they not agree that we still have a long way to go in the Netherlands to achieve the accessibility of people with disabilities in public life with all its restricted buildings? The amendment does not call for the impossible, but rather for the recognition of this principle; starting with further steps towards a society that is accessible to all. I would like to ask the parties in the House of Representatives who are critical of this amendment, in particular the PVV, the CDA and the VVD to support this amendment. It is important that we as a Chamber send out a strong signal: people with restrictions are part of it! That's a standard we all have to set.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. The public gallery is full. I noticed that it caused some problems, because a lot of people with wheelchairs had to wait downstairs. Thanks to the good work of the messengers, anyone who wants to do so can follow this debate from the public gallery. That's good. The ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities is a historic moment for people with disabilities in the Netherlands. The PvdA opts for an inclusive society, which means that children with disabilities and children without disabilities go to the same school as much as possible and play together. It means that people with disabilities work as much as possible and are your colleagues. It means we're in the same public transport and you shouldn't be standing outside with your wheelchair because you can't get in anywhere. It means that you can just take your help dog with you; a truly accessible society. This accessibility has been mentioned in our country for a long time, but, frankly, it is not progressing. Why the fear of general accessibility? That was the question that Illya Soffer of Each (in) and many others rightly asked on Twitter following the debate before Christmas. Why the fear of just getting it right? Let me be clear: I do not believe that self-regulation is going to take us any further; that is what the practice shows. In Gelderland buses have recently been purchased which are not accessible. A storehouse here near the Room was accessible, but after a renovation not anymore. There's a threshold in front of the door now, and I can't go in there anymore. The newly involved new Ministry of Interior is not suitable for people with disabilities and only 7% of government websites meet the accessibility standard. Surely we cannot and will not accept that? Those countries that have legally laid down that accessibility is the norm and that inaccessibility is the exception, show that it can be otherwise. In the United States, the entrepreneurial paradise par excellence, that step was taken 25 years ago and we are only talking about it. Let us choose that breakthrough. Of course in a reasonable way, of course it can be simple and basic and of course it can be gradual, but we must now really take that step! The PvdA, together with GroenLinks and the Christian Union, has tabled an amendment that is supported by D66, SP and 50PLUS. I would like to thank these colleagues for their contributions in and outside the debate in order to come up with a good proposal. You received the most recent proposal today. The amendment has been discussed extensively before the recess, and I understand that. It is fundamental, but still: what does the amendment actually require? Ensure that our society is accessible to people with disabilities, accessible to all. That's just normal, isn't it? That's just a matter of decency. So the question is: do we choose a real step forward and create a truly accessible society or do we continue to muddle? The PvdA chooses the first. The UN Convention also calls for this, as did the European Accessibility Act, which appeared a month ago. The cabinet may not recommend the amendment, but I will not leave it up to other parties, client organisations and people with and without a restriction. Accessibility doesn't happen by itself. That requires legislation. We therefore maintain our amendment. It is now up to the Chamber; I agree with Mr Van Gerven. In fact, I cannot imagine that we are not taking this opportunity for a breakthrough to regulate accessibility together; in the Chamber and beyond, with entrepreneurs and with people with disabilities. There are no conflicting interests. People with disabilities Over 2 million people in the Netherlands are also consumers, students, employees and employers. It is not to be explained that we expect people to participate in society as much as possible, but that we do not allow it, which literally means that people are colliding with thresholds. Without accessibility, no inclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u6	We have had a lot of discussion about this amendment in the first period. I asked Mr Van Dijk whether he saw his amendment as an ambition or an obligation. The amendment has now been amended. I'd like to ask him if he'll give us an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u7	I think it is important that something changes in the Netherlands. That is also apparent from my speech. It is not for nothing that we have chosen the term 'take care of general accessibility, unless that is unreasonable'. If it's unreasonable, you don't have to. It may be basic, it may be simple and it may be gradual, but it will happen. That's the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u8	I understand that. I think those words are beautiful and rightful. On the other hand, it is also true that we are not just having a debate here on a subject, but that we are making a law. It is very important that we know what the scope of the amendment is, given that this can also be followed by case law. I would like to give Mr Van Dijk two things of interest to us. Where does the article itself show that this is a matter of graduality? I see the word in the explanatory statement, but simply adding the word does not mean that an issue is becoming gradual. I would also like to hear Mr Van Dijk on whether it is an ambition or an obligation. These are two important issues for us, also in relation to agreements in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u9	Fortunately, in the coalition agreement, Mrs Van Ark's party and mine agreed that, after ten years, we would ratify the UN Convention for people with disabilities as one of the very last countries in the world. I'm proud of that. The UN Convention requires Member States to ensure that people with disabilities can participate as normally as possible in society. So that also requires some accessibility. That is a provision which the Treaty imposes on us and which we must impose on ourselves. Accessibility may be achieved gradually, as stated in the text. Mrs Van Ark knows, as I do, that the explanatory statement and the parliamentary debate are part of the legal history. Terms such as gradual, simple, reasonable and basic are all part of the legal history. But we're gonna do it. In addition to this important amendment, I have two motions for resolutions. The first is about the plan of action. I shall table this motion together with Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks. We believe that the plan of action should be more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u10	I thought there would be a little more to the amendment, but now that Mr Van Dijk is moving on to his motions, I would like to ask about the amendment. Could he comment more specifically on the changes in the amended amendment? I haven't been able to put it next to the earlier version myself. I think it's okay if we know where the differences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u11	That is a good question from Mr Van der Staaij, because the amended amendment has just been tabled. This amendment has been amended in two respects, including in consultation with D66. For the people who are following this debate, there is a possibility to lay down further rules with a General Measure of Governance. He's getting a heavy front. This means that the Chamber can help determine what will be included in the General Measure. That's a bit of a technical adjustment. The second amendment is that, at the request of D66, this passage is more explicitly included in the explanatory memorandum on which we had an exchange of views during the first period, namely how far-reaching the general accessibility arrangements are. That has to be basic and simple. These are the two main points of change. I told you, I have two motions. The first motion concerns the plan of action and should be more concrete. The plan of action that is now under way is a nice introduction, but as far as we are concerned we are going to make it real. That plan should also include what the UN Convention means for the different areas of life. It must contain targets and deadlines. Besides, you can't work with pledgings and promises until you know where you want to come out. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the government should strive for an inclusive society;]] [[Considering that a plan of approach on the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities is being developed, but that this plan of approach does not give concrete objectives or a concrete timetable;]] [[Whereas concrete steps are needed to make inclusive society a reality;]] [[calls on the government, concrete objectives and a timetable to be included in the approach plan, to include a roadmap and to send the renewed approach plan to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u12	We have just discussed in detail Mr Van Dijk's amendment. General accessibility becomes the norm. Shouldn't you leave that to the different sectors? How does the motion relate to the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u13	That is a fair question from Mrs Bergkamp. However, the plan of action is about more than just about the facet "accessibility." It is also about inclusive education: can children with disabilities and children without disabilities grow up together, play together and go to school together? It's also about being able to recreate at a normal sports club. I'm sure Mrs Bergkamp can imagine anything. So the plan of action is about more. As important as I think accessibility is, the UN Convention deals with many more facets. We can also draw on beautiful examples. Finland and Germany, for example, have wonderful concrete plans of action with objectives, involvement of the people involved, and also agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u14	That's a clear explanation. D66 also likes clear plans with objectives and results. But when we talk about the amendment and the plan of action, Mr Van Dijk says that it is actually about other subjects within those sectors. Otherwise, you wouldn't have to table another amendment, because then you're going to steer on two fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u15	Exactly, that seems to me to be a good explanation. However, when it comes to indicating general accessibility, the plan of action can help to further implement the legal standard that we are going to adopt. This is how it should be seen in relation to each other. I have a second motion. That motion is about the accessibility of public sector information. Even if you have a limitation, you should be able to track, consult and understand that information. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for people with visual or auditory disabilities and a slight intellectual impairment, the ability to read and understand public sector information is often very difficult;]] [[Whereas understanding public sector information is essential for the work, income, care, support and participation of people;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage access to public sector information for people with disabilities and to inform the Chamber of how it intends to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u16	Perhaps the same question applies to this motion as Mrs Bergkamp's, namely how this motion relates to the standard of the amendment which states that the general accessibility of websites should simply be regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u17	That is a good question from Mr Van der Staaij. In that sense, I would like to give the same answer as to the question about the plan of action. I specifically picked this out because we often hear that this issue needs to be tackled with priority so that it is properly developed and developed in the plan of action in relation to that standard. In addition, the Labour Party also notes a number of motions. This applies, for example, to Mrs Bergkamp's motion for a public campaign. Good campaigns abroad show that they do wonders for creating an inclusive society and for treating people with disabilities. In the first term, I spoke about the Say yes campaign in Belgium, which is a beautiful and effective campaign. The public campaign should be developed in cooperation with people with disabilities; it should be prepared and implemented in cooperation. That is how We stood up! A good campaign developed, which we can learn from. With Mrs Voortman, I am tabling a motion on the accessibility of public transport and the follow-up of parliamentary debates for people with auditory limitations. I'm gonna finish up. The UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities is a fine treaty, a human rights treaty. It's about autonomy and citizenship. It instructs us to ensure that people with disabilities can participate as fully in society as people without disabilities. This requires a bit of government, society, business and people with disabilities. It is about what society we want and about justice. It is literally and figuratively about accessibility, about inclusion and exclusion. Legislation is necessary to ensure that accessibility is self-evident over a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u18	This aid dog agrees with this; this is a sort of agreement bark. A person with a disability should not ask to participate, because this has already been taken into account. A disabled person is not an exception, but general accessibility is the norm in the Netherlands. It is no longer a question of being able, but of wanting. A society in which everyone can participate requires an inclusive society and an inclusive society requires an accessible society. This is a wonderful assignment to work on. Let us not just stick to fine words, but let us actually do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. The treatment of the state law and the implementing law for the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities has been shut down after the first term, but today, fortunately, we have the treatment in the second term. When the debate was closed, it was mainly the question of how Mr Van Dijk's amendment and others, originally in part No. 17 but now in part No. 36, must be assessed. It has taken the government quite a while to make a judgment on this. I read in the newspaper this week that the amendment would be amended and it is now available. However, it remains unclear what exactly the consequences of this amendment are. What exactly are general amenities and some basic amenities? When should an existing building be adapted or not? When, for example, should the paths and bridges of recreational landscapes be adapted? Just now, in the interrupting debate that arose following the amendment and the two motions, a great question emerged in the eyes of the CDA Group. If you include in an amendment that there will be general accessibility, unless that is disproportionate and cannot be asked, you will no longer need those motions. From the day that implementing law enters into force with the new article, does it also apply that all the requirements included in the motions are being implemented or is that different? This is a question I'd like to put to the government. Does the amendment, now that it has been amended in the sense that there will be a heavier procedure for further rules, in particular that has been amended, lead to a different opinion of the government? During the debate in the first term, I indicated that my heart said yes to general accessibility. That's almost obvious. Hardly anyone wears that. It is important, however, how you regulate it, how you put it into legislation. Let us say that general accessibility needs a huge boost. You hear regularly, especially when you talk to people with disabilities, that it's still a long way from being properly arranged here. So the question is not whether it should be done, but how it should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u20	I hear Mrs Keijzer say with her heart that accessibility in this country should simply be regulated. Then why doesn't the CDA let his heart speak? If it has to be arranged, something we can't all oppose, why isn't the CDA just for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u21	That's exactly what I've just mentioned. That is why I am so curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to the amended amendment and the two motions that Mr Van Dijk has just tabled. In the explanatory statement to the amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijk and others. State "conductivity', "implementation plan of approach', "not when disproportionate'. It also states that it must be carried out at least so that there is a legal obligation, i.e. a legal standard of general accessibility. We are not talking about a policy plan here today, we are talking about a law here today. If the First Chamber also adopts this law, that standard shall apply from the day following publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. That's good, but as a legislator, you always have to realize what the law that you impose on society means. I just haven't figured it out yet. That is why I am very curious about the explanation. My second question to Mr Van Dijk is what you need those two motions for when you impose that general standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u22	I'd like to explain the latter one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u23	If it's short, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u24	The plan of action and ratification are about more than accessibility. A very good plan of action is needed, including for other things. However, I would like to return to Mrs Keijzer's question. I think there's a hundred reasons why something can't be done. You only need one reason to want something. I think I hear Mrs Keijzer say the same: let us simply regulate accessibility. She points to the Secretary of State, but I just want to know what the CDA thinks and why the CDA isn't just following his heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u25	We're treating a law now. I believe that, as a legislative authority, we should be aware of the consequences of the decisions we are taking. Mr Van Dijk and I have both been alderman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u26	And a lawyer!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u27	Yeah, that's it. As alderman, we both had conversations with the entrepreneurs and with the people of the health care institutions in the municipality. If we said that there should be general accessibility in the hospitality industry, or if we added a shovel to that if a new care facility was built, then we did so as alderman in our municipality. And rightly so. We can both tell wonderful stories about that, and I think that is true of everyone who has worked at that level. That is a different position from that of imposing a duty on the whole of the Netherlands as a legislator that takes effect on the day after the law has been in the Official Journal. In the final consideration you make about that, I think it's important to realize what that means. Who are you imposing all this duty on? Today we have all received the new proposed directive from Europe. This Directive lays down accessibility requirements for a wide range of issues: TV, telephone and other technical issues. One question that applies, for example, is whether Mr Van Dijk's amendment goes above Europe's requirements. It is a somewhat long answer, but I think it is the essence of what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u28	Not only a little long, but you can't ask a question from your position to the one who interrupts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u29	I didn't want to raise a question. It is important to ask the Secretary of State how these two relate to each other. So that is also a question I put to the Secretary of State. Are the requirements of the European directive going to apply, or is it possible that there will be a head on top of that? And if so, maybe that's very good, which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u30	Maybe I can help Mrs Keijzer. It is now stated in the amendment that it must be simple adjustments, so what one can expect from one another. It's about a piece of awareness. It's not about very extreme, complex changes. No, it's about simple adjustments that allow people to participate. I believe that is at the heart of the UN Convention. Could that help Mrs Keijzer over the line? Or what is needed for that; what questions does she have left? I believe that Mrs Keijzer has the right to get answers to questions she still has on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u31	As Mr van der Staaij has just said, I have not yet been able to put the pre-recess amendment in addition to the amended amendment that was received this afternoon at 12 noon. Because then you can see very well the difference. Hence my question to the Secretary of State whether his opinion is changing. I have now understood that the word'simple' appears in the explanatory memorandum, not in the legislative text. That could be, for example, a question: if it gets into the legislative text, does that change the State Secretary's opinion? If the legislative text becomes gradual, does that change the State Secretary's opinion? If the legal text states that this will apply to General Measure of Management, will that result in a judgment? Is existing legislation still applicable, or is Mr Van Dijk's amendment overrulet? Those are questions you have to ask yourself. The people who listen to this may think, "Oh, my gosh, what details, what a "mosquitoing." That's the neat word for it; I have another word in my head that I can't say. At the same time, that is the task we have here. We must think about what we are putting on paper, what duty we are imposing and what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u32	It's been ten years. I'm thinking of the two cabinets the CDA was in. During that period the VVD also served in a number of Cabinets. The Convention has not been ratified so far. Now we have a chance to ratify it. Mrs Keijzer asks a number of questions that have been answered in the legal process. We debated it last time. That's part of the law. It states that it must not lead to a disproportionate burden and that it must be gradual. It has also been said that it must be simple adjustments. Mrs Keijzer is now asking a number of questions which I believe have already been answered in the debate. I wonder what else is needed to turn Mrs Keijzer's heart of the CDA into action and therefore to go for that accessibility. After ten years there is still no ambitious plan; there is a standard from the law. However, I agree with Mrs Keijzer that with regard to the motions, you can ask yourself how they relate to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u33	As far as the CDA is concerned, there is no doubt about the need to ratify the Convention. It was also in our two previous election programmes. So that is what we want and what is not at all under discussion here. If it is Mrs Bergkamp's question whether the CDA wants to ratify the treaty, then the answer is: certainly, absolutely. As far as the question of the amendment is concerned, as far as I am concerned, it is necessary for the Secretary of State to say a few things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u34	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u35	I will, Mr. Chairman. The CDA would have liked the responsibility for the implementation of this Convention to lie with the Ministry of the Interior. We're disappointed that this didn't happen. This treaty is, of course, about much more than concern. It's about joining society. The plan of action is actually quite a vague story. The CDA welcomes consultation with the various sectors and interest groups on accessibility, but I really want to hear it more concretely today. When is what going to be done now? Will there be further regulation if the plan is not implemented? The Secretary of State replied by letter to the Bergkamp/Van Dijk amendment on voting for people with intellectual disabilities. He wrote: "In practice, this would mean that the polling station should allow assistance to any electorate who so requests, even if there is no disability. This is not in line with the principle of our right to vote that a voter casts his own vote." Then I write in the margin: once, that's true. The question then is what exactly is to be understood by help inside and outside the voting booth and what are the tasks of the president of the polling station? Is there anything you can do for that? I am thinking, for example, of the possibility that the fact that a person with intellectual disabilities is given care under the AWBZ, the Youth Act or the Wmo is seen as proof that he can vote with help in the voting booth if he so wishes. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u36	Will you finish up, Mrs. Keijzer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u37	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's what I'm gonna do. As a CDA, we have tabled an amendment, which has been co-signed by Mrs Dik-Faber, which aims to enable all people with disabilities to participate in society at their level. I have had a lot of positive reactions to this, because it says that we do not decide here when someone participates at his level but that this is to be judged by people with disabilities. I therefore hope that this amendment will be accepted by the other groups. I also co-signed Mrs Bergkamp's amendment, which lays down that people with an assistance dog can finally go and stand wherever they want. Finally, here's what I'm gonna do. I spoke with Pauline and Amber of We Stand Up yesterday! I think they are here now. Thank you, ladies, for the beautiful framed picture of the ladies and gentlemen of We Stand Up! They stressed that the next few years would be the biggest challenge and that the building decision would have no rules for cultivation. Now, of course, that is complicated, but I would nevertheless like to see steps taken. Would the Secretary of State of VWS like to consult with his colleague for Rijksdienst en Wonen to see if there could be a little more regulation on this issue? Indeed, there is already a handbook on accessibility. I know you can't put that one-on-one on cultivation in general, but we still see too often that there is insufficient thought about this aspect even in large public buildings where it has been converted. In that conversation with me, as former alderman of regional planning, the women's advisory committee came up. Those are women who judged construction plans on practical matters. It really was a lot of great class. These days, they're called the voluntary advisory committee. However, I was already impressed by the practical work they were doing. Something like this simply needs to be put in place for advice on accessibility. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that voluntary advisory committees (VACs) are active in many municipalities to assess building plans in municipalities;]] [[Whereas it does not explicitly include as a focus on whether a construction plan meets physical accessibility for people with disabilities;]] [[Considers that inclusion of this focus could lead to better accessibility of buildings and life-proof construction;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the national umbrella of the VACs and the VNG, to include this issue, and to inform the House of Representatives before the summer recess 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u38	I have a question for Mrs Keijzer on the amendment on aid dogs. That is a good amendment and the Labour Party supports it. Isn't it strange, however, that Mrs Keijzer would like to arrange for dogs to enter, but that their owners should stay outside? Mrs Keijzer does not want to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u39	What is your answer to this, Mrs Keijzer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u40	In any case, the prize for the best interruption in the handling of this bill is for Mr Van Dijk, no matter what else comes. Having said that, I don't think it's as heavy as that. The discussion of people with assistance dogs is not that they cannot go in; they are a customer. The discussion is that their assistance dog on which they depend cannot enter. It can be arranged. That is also stated in Mrs Bergkamp's amendment, which I have co-signed wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u41	It is a good amendment, because I agree that aid dogs should be allowed in. But their owners should be able to do the same. So I really hope that Mrs Keijzer wants to arrange for help dogs as well as people to just come in everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u42	That is true, only this is not what Mr Van Dijk is asking. Mr Van Dijk asks what Mona thinks of the Otwin van Dijk and others amendment. in piece No. 36. We have just had an extensive exchange of views on this. First of all, I look at the Secretary of State for an answer to the various questions I have raised here, so that we can finally consider them. Anything else I say, Mr President, would be a repetition of what I said earlier. You're just fresh...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u43	And we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u44	...and we don't want that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u45	No. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President, after last night. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Gert-Jan Segers, who spoke in this debate in the first term. Because of my stay at the Paris climate conference, I couldn't be there at the time, but I know how he is also personally motivated to fight for an inclusive society. Unfortunately, it is very necessary for us to work together for inclusive society. Too often things don't go well. The examples have changed, whether they are school, work or leisure. Last week I received an e-mail from someone who wanted to travel with the DVD. At the bus of Company A she was kindly helped by the driver, but when she switched to bus company B she was kindly asked to bring a companion because the bus driver was not allowed to get up from his seat. I am not going to table a motion on this now, but ask the Secretary of State to discuss this with his colleague from I and M. I mention the experience of someone whose help dog can't go anywhere. A message like that just came in on Twitter. How many times have we debated this? I'm thinking of that 11-year-old motor disabled, but super-smart kid, who's looking for a suitable VWO school, but nowhere to go because it probably takes him nine years instead of six years. Schools are hard-earned for that. I can go on like this for a while. My group would like inclusion to be the norm, not the exception. We need to work towards this step-by-step. I have been looking forward very much to ratifying the UN Convention, because it is not just a law, but a law that deals with what society we want to be. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this is a society in which everyone can participate, a society in which everyone can come to their own, regardless of talents or limitations. This is also the reason why my group has co-signed Otwin van Dijk's amendment, because accessibility is very important. We believe that our society, public institutions, businesses and restaurants should not only take action if someone with disabilities asks for it, but that we should take reasonable measures to make it the norm. My group has agreed to postpone the second term of this debate because we were hopeful for the response of the Secretary of State. Unfortunately, we are very disappointed. I find it really incomprehensible that the Secretary of State rejects this amendment. I've read the letter, but frankly, I don't find the Secretary of State convincing anywhere. Fortunately, there seems to be a majority in the Chamber for this amendment. I shall move quickly to my motions, because I see that I have a little less time than I had expected. I have two motions, the first of which relates to the Caribbean Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities will not apply to the Caribbean part of the Netherlands for the time being;]] [[Whereas the rights of people with disabilities in the Caribbean Netherlands are no different from the rights of people with disabilities in the European part of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of the results of the inventory, to draw up a plan of action for the Caribbean Netherlands to improve the position of people with disabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u47	I have a second motion, which deals with inclusion in our foreign policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities includes both national and international components;]] [[Considers that the interests and rights of people with disabilities can be better taken into account in the implementation of foreign trade and development cooperation policies and within the Dutch government's human rights agenda;]] [[calls on the Government to include people with disabilities in the dialogue with partner countries, to develop policies to learn from each other's experiences and to make inclusion of people with disabilities an integral part of human rights policy and foreign trade and development cooperation policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u48	I'm rounding up. We can never say that life is only valuable if it meets certain criteria. Every life is valuable, with or without limitations, from the very beginning to old age. This treaty underlines that. I look forward to ratification. The process is complete if the amendment of the Labour Party, Christian Union and GroenLinks is adopted. I can only imagine that the Secretary of State wants that to happen deep down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. I said in my first term that the cabinet's proposal for ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities is too weak in terms of ambition. We believe that the Netherlands should want to be an example on this issue. I am tabling a number of motions and I hope that I will be able to deal with the amendments later. If it doesn't come from the cabinet, it'll have to come from us as a chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that an inclusive society means that people with disabilities can contribute equally to democracy;]] [[believes that this means creating the right framework conditions for people to develop their abilities and talents;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which people with disabilities have representative or administrative functions, which are obstacles to them and to take measures to remove obstacles to active participation in democracy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u50	In my contribution in the first term, I have paid particular attention to the importance that people with auditory limitations can also follow the debates. That's really important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Second and First Chamber debates cannot be followed by people with hearing impairment;]] [[considers that monitoring the democratic process is essential for political participation;]] [[believes that everyone, with or without limitation, has the right to political participation in our country and that this right should be safeguarded as far as possible;]] [[invites the government, the Second and First Chamber debates to follow through the livestream and NPO Politics, to also make available as soon as possible to people who are deaf or hearing impaired and to inform the Chamber about this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Empire has an important role to play, especially in terms of accessibility and personnel policy;]] [[noting that the population of the Empire is still far below the targets of the quota scheme for the participation of people with disabilities;]] [[noting that the accessibility of public facilities such as Rijksbouwen is still lagging behind;]] [[noting that many government websites do not comply with the accessibility web guidelines, thereby excluding people with disabilities from information;]] [[calls on the government to take its role as a model and to take steps to implement this model role, including on employment participation and (digital) accessibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-45]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u51	I do not often repeat a question, but I am doing it now, because I am a little surprised at the motions tabled by the authors of the amendment. They have tabled an amendment which sets a legal standard for accessibility, but at the same time they have tabled all kinds of motions to ensure accessibility in a wide range of areas. I also asked Mr Van Dijk: is the amendment now leading or are we going to change it through all sorts of motions? I think you have to choose between an amendment or a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u52	I think I will be tabling a motion which Mrs Bergkamp has co-signed. I think this is a bit of a wonderful reaction. I think you should do both. You have to take good care of it in the law, but at the same time you can make it clear in motions which aspects are at stake. So I think the two of them are good for strengthening each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u53	I don't think it's as strong as anyone's replying to the person asking the question. I asked the GroenLinks spokesperson what's more important to her. Do we set the standard for accessibility or are we going to adjust in all kinds of facets? Isn't that a little bit off?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u54	No, it's not at all at odds. That standard is important, but it is also important that we clarify what we are really talking about. That is why we say: we have the amendment and we have the motions. I think they're mutually reinforcing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas accessible public transport is an important requirement for the mobility of people with disabilities;]] [[Whereas there are still too many obstacles to people with disabilities, including in the case of new facilities or new equipment;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to existing policies, together with the OB sector and experience experts to draw up a plan of approach for accessible public transport and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u55	I shall table the next motion with Mrs Keijzer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that an inclusive society should be sought;]] [[believes that policies should be made not for people with disabilities but for those with disabilities and that the experiences of people with disabilities are indispensable for the removal of barriers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the involvement of experience experts in national policies, starting with the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Chronic Disease or Disabilities, and to inform the Chamber of the measures taken to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u56	Finally, I am tabling a motion on where the responsibility for human rights for people with disabilities should be invested. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that cooperation between public authorities in the field of human rights within the Netherlands can still be significantly improved;]] [[noting that the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for coordinating human rights policy within the Netherlands and the National Human Rights Action Plan;]] [[Whereas the credibility and effectiveness of the Dutch foreign policy are strengthened by giving sufficient attention to human rights in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with civil society organisations, to appoint a national human rights coordinator to coordinate and mainstream human rights within the government;]] [[calls on the Government to invest responsibility for the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities with the Minister of the Interior,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u57	I would like to respond to the reaction of the cabinet to my and Mr Van Dijk's amendment to reach 100% accessible voting rooms. The cabinet states that supplementing the current legislative text with "as much as possible" would be sufficient, but we do not agree with that. Now we see in the cabinet's proposal that this should at least go to 25% accessible voting rooms. I think that's way too skinny. I think we should go to 100% accessible voting rooms. I don't think that's what you're gonna achieve if you assume at least 25%. That is why we have tabled an amendment calling for this 100%. We understand that's impossible to reach immediately. It is very important that we add a 'comply or explain' clause. It is important that the College then does enough to reach 100% accessible voting rooms. If that is not possible, it must be explained why it is not possible. There are currently insufficient accessible buildings. If we were to say that voting must necessarily take place in an accessible building, it would lead to fewer voting rooms. Then you could say that at that time we do not need to reach that 100%. I think that is crucial and therefore the argument of the cabinet does not apply. The Cabinet also states that the amendment is not covered and leads to costs. I think this is a sad observation. Apparently, economics is booming here. We are talking about human rights here. Then it's about what you want and how you can make that happen. That may also cost some stakes. And yes, it can also be about simple adjustments and then it doesn't have to cost so much at all. We would like to move towards a fully inclusive society. This includes full participation in democracy. I believe that this can only be done with 100% accessible voting rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr. Chairman. The first response by the Secretary of State took place on the International Human Rights Day, a special day to talk about a special treaty, a human rights treaty. I think it's good to emphasize that. The starting point is that everyone, regardless of their limitation, should have equal opportunities and should be able to participate in social life. The goal is therefore an inclusive society. This requires the commitment of the cabinet and of municipalities, but even more so of society as a whole. Unfortunately, the end of the debate had to be postponed because there was no response to the Van Dijk amendment. It was very unfortunate that it was decided a day in advance. This was especially annoying for the people who had asked for freedom or arranged transport to come to the Chamber. In my opinion, this is also a typical example: fixing everything in advance, arranging assistance, a ramp and special transport. That is such a difference with someone without disabilities, who can easily get on a train or bus and easily change the route or plan. On the Van Dijk and others amendment A lot has already been said. It is in line with the objectives of the UN Convention. In an inclusive society, accessibility should be the norm and inaccessibility should be an exception. In doing so, we are, after all, changing the cabinet's proposal somewhat. We shall therefore support the amendment. I actually wanted to make it a cliffhanger, but Mr Van Dijk indicated that we would support it and that is true. This is happening from a social point of view, because we are striving for a society that everyone can participate in. At the same time, we are also realistic, and that is why we have considered with Mr Van Dijk whether we are not asking the impossible. The amendment states that these are simple adjustments, i.e. not disproportionate taxation and graduality. If weird things still happen, we still have a General Measure of Governance to adjust our framework. If there had been a plan of action after ten years with changing cabinets but with parties who were often in them, it might have been different. But since we do not have a plan of action after ten years and even a motion has to be tabled to formulate objectives, that has given us that extra push. Apparently, it doesn't go on its own, despite all the good intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u59	I am very pleased that D66 supports the amendment. However, it already included graduality and unreasonableness. What has been added is that the amenities are simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u60	May I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u61	If you can suspect what Mrs. Voortman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u62	About the first part. I have been in contact with Mr Van Dijk in order to make it clearer in the explanatory statement. In fact, it seemed as if "improper taxation" was linked to "conductivity." This has also been a change in order to make a better explanation of the structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u63	But the word "simple" was one of the things we added, because we think it is very important that there should be a majority. A simple facility can also make a building accessible, but it would be very good if entrepreneurs did it in a way that is really good. I was wondering if Mrs Bergkamp would agree with that. It is therefore a very small addition to the amendment. Could we not put in place that the provision of general accessibility can be simple in nature? Wouldn't that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u64	I think it has been pointed out a few times that D66 has had a lot of consultation with the PvdA to amend the amendment. The result has been presented today, namely the amended amendment. That is also the amendment which we support and which we support. Of course, people can always do more, but it is important in this legal process that you do not ask for the impossible and that you are realistic. Hence, adjustments are simple. Of course, people can do more, but you don't have to settle that in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u65	Now it says that amenities are simple. I understand that Mrs Bergkamp indicates that they can be simple and that you can do more. Then it would be a good idea to add that. It's a minor change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u66	There's a confusion of speech. It's legal. Mrs Keijzer has drawn attention to this and she has a point to make. As it stands now in the explanatory memorandum, it is simple adjustments. That is what we now agree on in the law, and that is a step forward when we see what we have now. Apart from that, people can always do more than a law. That's different than changing the law now. I hope I explained that clearly. The amendment as it stands now has the support of D66. I think we're taking quite a step in that direction. The Secretary of State also responded to other amendments, including those concerning assistance in the voting booth. It is said that intimidation must be prevented. However, when someone asks for help from a member of a polling station, it is not about help in choosing the party but about help in carrying out an act. People with physical disabilities are apparently allowed to be helped, but people with intellectual disabilities are not. So it is assumed that you are open to intimidation if you have an intellectual limitation. Of course, that does not have to be the case at all. Why can't you go to the polling station and the voting booth, but can't you get help voting? The members of the polling bureau shall not influence the vote. That's what the Tickets Act says. Unfortunately, assisted dogs are still refused too often. Thanks to an assistance dog, people can continue to participate. These dogs can help you dress up, cross the street and post-traumatic stress disorder. They can even warn you of an epileptic seizure. Developments are continuing. These dogs can ensure that their owners can remain independent. I always think the word "boss" is a bit childish, but I don't have a better word for it. It is very important that people can remain independent. If the dog can't go in, the owner can't go in either. I am pleased that the Secretary of State leaves the opinion on the amendment, which has also been explicitly supported by the CDA, to the Chamber. Hopefully this will also be regulated in the law, so that we can make a clear statement together: assistance dogs are welcome everywhere, the doors are open everywhere. I also hope that we are united, as we were when Helma Verhoeven offered us a petition two years ago. I hope that this amendment can count on broad support. I do have one more question about this. The Secretary of State was still going to find out if this would solve the problem of taxis. Often assistance dogs are also refused in the taxi. I hope so. I make another motion, because awareness often plays a role in refusing assistance dogs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an awareness-raising campaign will be launched aimed at an inclusive society;]] [[Considers that people who encounter obstacles in daily life due to disability, illness or chronic illness can bring meaningful knowledge and experience into the design of this campaign;]] [[calls on the Government to launch the public campaign in close cooperation with experience experts;]] [[calls on the government to pay attention to the importance of assistance dogs in the campaign,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u67	I come to my next topic: the sexual rights of people with disabilities. Last time I asked if the Secretary of State wanted to be a figurehead on this subject. I understand that this may go a little too far, but I do think it is important to emphasise this issue. Sexuality of people with disabilities is, after all, still a very big taboo. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is that people with disabilities have equal rights, including in the field of sexual health;]] [[noting that unfamiliarity with sexuality experience in people with disabilities often leads to restraint in the environment, including parents and caregivers;]] [[noting that the government considers that breaking this taboo requires a broad, long-term effort by the government and society itself;]] [[calls on the Government to make this effort and to this end, in consultation with organisations such as Rutgers WPF, the National Family Doctors Association, the Health Services and Everyone, to reach a plan of action aimed at removing restraint and breaking the taboo and informing the Chamber in mid-2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u68	I'm coming to my final motion. Mrs Voortman already indicated that we would table a motion together. It has nothing to do with accessibility itself and all the motions that have been tabled. She's on a whole different subject. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijk and others. "general accessibility" is intended and that its assessment will be carried out by the College of Human Rights;]] [[Considering that this is likely to constitute an additional tax for the College of Human Rights;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the means needed by the Human Rights College to carry out this task properly and to make the necessary resources available for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr. Chairman. I have already argued on behalf of my group in the first term why we support the content of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled. My contribution was mainly about the discrepancy between the Convention and the dismantling of the level of facilities for people with disabilities over the last three years. I am talking about the major cuts in care, nursing, housekeeping, day-to-day spending and counselling. It is also about income, education, self-direction, living, working, dependency, deprivation of liberty and accessibility. At my criticism that the coalition is dampening the pit if the calf has already drowned, the Secretary of State, in response, only came up with the excuse that the new laws have been tested under the Treaty. Yeah, right! Everyone understands that if this treaty had been dealt with first in recent years and only then the new WMO and the remaining 105 cuts in total, it would not have been possible to cut as sharply at the level of provision as it is now. Indeed, the Treaty provides for progress rather than decline; the Treaty provides for more rather than less. We cannot support the Van Dijk amendment on compulsory general access for individuals. Not only because of the hypocrisy about the dismantling of the level of facilities for disabled people by himself and his party in recent years, but also because of the division, the hardening in society to which his amendment leads in my view. Firstly, the point of hypocrisy. When it comes to the dismantling of the provision level by the Labour Party, I cannot reconcile it with the fact that the running aids, not only the rollator but also the tripod, the walking racks, crutches and so on, have been thrown out of the package. As a result, not even all people with disabilities will be able to leave their homes to go to the shops that are made public. Another example of hypocrisy about the degradation of the level of provision is the standard of living. The Labour Party halved the income compensation WTCG and removed the compensation for its own risk. Many people with disabilities have fallen financially and could not even eat a bite in a restaurant which will soon be made public by the Labour Party. I understand that these are harsh arguments against this amendment and not substantive ones, but I would like to emphasise it once again. Let us now turn to my substantive arguments against this amendment. I do not think this is the way to achieve general accessibility. If, for example, disabled people are not treated normally in a catering establishment, as we sometimes read, we need to reduce or stop bringing our money to the entrepreneur concerned. The same applies to accessibility. For example, if we encounter a web store that is inaccessible to others, such as people with visual disabilities, we can send an e-mail to the company in question to point out this kindly. If nothing is done with that e-mail, we can better spend our money at a web store that is accessible. I pointed out in the first instance that it is inherent to undertake to acquire as much business as possible. That is simply the core of entrepreneurship. If you as an entrepreneur with your shop, catering establishment, administration office, taxi, website or whatever, are insufficiently accessible, then you are just stupid. If you leave out a potential of about 2 million customers, you're a jerk. The reaction to that should not be to criminalize that entrepreneur. No, we have to kindly point it out to him or her first, and if nothing changes, spend our money on someone else who is accessible. Of course it's easier said than done, I get it. I also understand the annoyance when you constantly run into inaccessibility, but facing each other in a court of law is not the solution. I have also argued that there is usually no unwillingness, but ignorance. I understand that this could cause irritation, but let's not criminalize ignorance. Just join us all. An inaccessible cafe? Bye, we're going to the neighbors. An inaccessible store? I'll take my money to the competitor. An inaccessible website? Let's see who else is offering those products. I believe that this is equivalence, and I believe that this is an inclusive society. Finally, I would like to say that none of the 2 million people with disabilities benefit from treatment other than normal treatment. Normal treatment also means normal amendments and not special amendments, i.e. amendments with cost and coverage; not without cost or coverage because they are disabled. I ask the Secretary of State once again to provide these costs and I ask my colleagues to provide their amendments with proper coverage. An equal treatment begins here in the Lower House of the States-General. In short, we support the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled, but we do not support the Van Dijk amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u70	I would like to comment on Mrs Agema's argument in substance not to support Mr Van Dijk's amendment, Mrs Dik-Faber and myself. She points out that it is important to ask kindly first to make a facility accessible, but have we not done so long enough? Isn't it time to say that friendly questions are over?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u71	I think that we should not resort to criminalisation. I spoke in my first term of office about what it was like when Mr Van Dijk became our colleague. At that time, so many adjustments had to be made. No one anticipated that. However, I also know that the Chamber is full of people who have not done so on purpose. That was ignorance. I understand that this is annoying. The government must indeed be accessible, but I do not think that the people with a shop or restaurant should be criminalized and brought to justice. I think we should just ask for it. If people don't, we go to the neighbors. Then we'll just go to someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u72	I can imagine that someone who wants to go to a restaurant, university building or any other building is getting tired of checking whether it's accessible. The idea of our amendment is precisely that it should be dealt with from the outset. It's not meant to go to court, it's meant to take care of things. It is intended to ensure that people with disabilities do not have to arrange this separately. I hope that Mrs Agema thinks that is important as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mrs. Voortman is a Member of Parliament. Laws lead to rules, court cases and case law. That is why she is making an amendment. I get the trouble and the irritation. I understand that it's very annoying if you can't get over a threshold or through a screen either physically or because you're hearing impaired. However, we should not make the people responsible for this inaccessibility into criminals. I think that's a bad thing. I don't think it should be regulated by law. I do not think it should lead to criminalisation of individuals. I think we should settle this in a friendly way and on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u74	I think Mrs Agema is making an endlessly naive speech. What does she care that it's gonna be okay? That's what she says. If you look at where we have come from over the past 20 years, and where we are now, hardly any real progress has been made. What does Mrs Agema mean that nothing needs to be arranged and that it will be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u75	I find the words "infinitely naive" really inappropriate. I had a scale three and a half years ago at my fifth neck vertebrae. I've got MS. I've been able to experience what it's like to have a big problem in your body since your fifth neck vertebrae. I have also experienced the thresholds that this creates. So I'm not boundlessly naive. It's what solution you see. I don't see a solution through the judge. I don't see it, but I understand the annoyance. I believe that as a society, the 2 million people with disabilities first and also everyone without disabilities, we must join forces together and achieve this in a friendly way. I know this is not settled from today to tomorrow, but we will have to look at it that way. We should not engage in criminalisation and legal proceedings. It doesn't solve anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u76	Every day, 2 million Dutch people, together with Mrs Agema and myself, face obstacles, which prevent them from participating in society, as everyone wants. In my opinion, putting your hands together is a matter of society so that everyone can just do their thing, whether you're in a wheelchair, have MS, be blind or deaf, or have any kind of limitation. You need to be able to participate, without having to call, plan or arrange in advance. You have to be able to assume that society is open to everyone. That's the hand job. You take care of that because it hasn't happened for 20 years, by law. That's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u77	I do not agree with Mr Van Dijk. I have been pleading in this house for nine years for rights to stay in nursing homes so that people can go outside, take a shower and have rights in the nursing home where they live. That's not settled in our country. There are houses that only shower on Sundays. Some people get hospitalized and never come out again. There are people who have been washed with an impregnated washcloth for months, when they actually want to take a shower. I fought for those rights for years and years. Eventually they ended up in the Wlz by this secretary of state. I'm grateful to him for that. However, it was Mr Van Dijk who personally removed the basic right of residence for the most vulnerable and most sick people in our country from the law, because he did not want a claim culture. And now he wants to. I understand his frustration and his bullshit, but he's not gonna accomplish it by forcing it through criminalizing people who are benevolent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u78	I do not understand Mrs Agema's speech. It has spent three weeks studying how it can justify being against the amendment. She'll come up with, "I'm messy." In doing so, she herself points out that this is actually not a good argument. But the substantive balance is also wrong. If you assume the right of residence for nursing homes and the fact that there must be certain rights, you do so by law. What is the difference, in essence, from the legal regulation of the accessibility of, for example, a catering establishment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u79	I can also ask Mr Van Gerven this question, because he was against the right of residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u80	We were in favour of people in a nursing home getting those things they need. We guarantee that right, but we have done it in a different way. However, Mrs Agema is trying to dodge my question. My question was: if you set a standard by law, how do you criminalize the one who has to implement that standard? What is there for a catering company, a library or any other criminal to ensure that accessibility is the norm and not the threshold? What's criminal about that? I don't understand. Mrs. Agema leaves people with disabilities in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u81	That's not true. That is also evident in my speech. I am sure that there are still images of the great debate of concern in which we were opposed to each other and Mr Van Gerven clearly indicated that he was opposed to the right of residence. That's one point. It's about right of residence like you have right of residence in prison. You don't live at home anymore and you're at the mercy of someone else. Can you still have basic right of residence? The second point concerns the word 'criminalisation'. If you go to court, you want a verdict. Someone wins or loses that trial. It's very common for people to call that "criminalizing." That's what I call it. That's a very normal word. We need to give space to individuals in our country and we need to call for them to be and become more accessible. That's much better than going to court. It's a little more friendly. Parties such as Mr Van Gerven are full of things like polarizing and I know what, but he is creating them now. I think we should be a much more friendly society for people who are willing to change their business. After all, they want more business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u82	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the oral and written answers and the response to the amendments. It is good that today, so soon after the recess, we can continue to deal with this important treaty and really help the people with disabilities in practice. That is also the impatience behind it in the Chamber. It was a disadvantage that we could not continue with the second term immediately after the first deadline, but it has the advantage that Mrs Dik-Faber can be present today. It has so often called for this legislation to be dealt with quickly that it should be pleased to be able to speak today, in the second term. Let me start with the pièce de résistance, I would almost say, but we only use Dutch here, so I say: with the most important remaining part of the discussion. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and others. in piece No. 36. But "c.s." stands for "cum suis." That's not really a good Dutch either. You should say: and others. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 36 I said in the first instance, and I say again, that we fully support its objective, namely that general accessibility should be the norm. In view of the previous questions and concerns that we had and the reaction of the cabinet, I have to say that the SGP Group cannot support this amendment in this way, not even with the adjustments that have been made. This is something I wanted to have in mind before I made a judgment, but it is very limited. Our main objection is that the amendment does not provide sufficient legal certainty. I think it is very important that everyone knows what they are doing, that companies and public institutions know what to do and that people with disabilities know what they are entitled to. We do not believe that legal certainty is sufficiently guaranteed by this general wording in such a broad area of education, housing, services and labour. I find that legally vulnerable. I also think this is vulnerable to the legislative process, because I also wonder how the Upper House, which is often even more critical on these points than the Lower House, will react to this. Aren't you running the risk that the entire legislation will be considerably delayed? Some explanatory words have been used, but I do not find them in the clear general text that is now in the text. There is a general duty of care for accessibility in all these areas, unless it is a disproportionate burden. With all the objections, you can say that there is an escape of disproportionate taxation, but that is the same thing. You can say it never hurts that way, but what does it offer for extra clarity? In addition to insufficient legal certainty, there is also a vital danger of huge judicial justice; that what is meant will have to be fought in court. I don't like that, especially when you say you support the objective. I began by saying that we are impatient because there is not enough progress. I don't want to leave it at that. I asked the question whether there are any possibilities for agreeing to it, based on this legal text. In my view, these possibilities are indeed there, for example, if you do not make a decision on them. Now you're actually saying that that standard is there, in paragraph 1, and that you can still lay down rules with General Measure of Management, but you can also say that there are rules, based on the idea that paragraph 1 is still too undetermined. It could also indicate what these rules should relate to, for example at the rate, which would gradually revert to the legal text. You can also specify which facilities you can specifically require. Another point is to clarify more clearly what is meant by the exception of the disproportionate tax. If the amendment were to be amended in this way, we would find it much more sympathetic. I'm just waiting for the discussion to see if that movement can be expected. If not, I will try to come up with a sub-amendment to this amendment. That is what I wanted to say on the most important point of discussion in this second term, namely the amendment. In the first period, the Secretary of State gave a positive response to the amendment to item No. 35. That is a technical amendment to an amendment tabled earlier by Mrs Bergkamp and myself in respect of item No. 19. It states that municipalities have an important role to play now that they are responsible for supporting adults and young people with disabilities, a condition or a chronic disease. Supporting work with a disability must be given concrete hands and feet, in conjunction with and in line with the planning obligations already in place. I have already said that this is to be achieved in cooperation with people with disabilities and the organisations representing them. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the positive assessment of this amendment. We have taken account of the suggestions for technical improvement. We have co-signed a motion by the Christian Union on foreign policy. I see I'm already in injury time, Mr. Chairman. I will therefore refer to it briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u83	That's good. Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u84	I will conclude with another, but important, topic, namely the protection of unborn life. If we want to work towards a society in which people with disabilities can participate fully, we must, in the opinion of the SGP Group, also take account of unborn life. The Secretary of State has already said that he sees an obligation to do so in the Treaty. There could also be a positive impetus for information and this aspect could be taken into account in the action plan. At the same time, we continue to have great difficulty with the interpretative statement in Article 10. In fact, it says that we have our legislation from the 1980s, and that is what we are doing. I do not want to open the debate on this, which is not the time and the subject is too comprehensive, but I would like to table a motion. It proposes that further consideration should also be given to this sensitive issue in the light of the legislation before us today. This motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child and on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also concern unborn life;]] [[Whereas in other countries such as the United Kingdom, this has led to a further discussion on the practice of abortion on grounds of disability;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether, in the light of these conventions and their application in other countries, there is a need to adapt policies or regulations on abortion for reasons of disability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33990-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the first-term answers. I would like to ask a number of follow-up questions, but I would like to clarify something before I do that. No matter how many attempts are being made within and outside this Chamber to paint another picture, the VVD is a strong supporter of an inclusive society. It is not for nothing that we consider equal treatment of each individual to be the core values of liberalism and of our party, whether it be people of a particular sex, with a certain sexual orientation or, as in this case, with people with disabilities. We do not therefore disagree on the right of people with disabilities to participate fully in society, but on the way in which this right must be respected. The VVD believes that the cabinet has taken a big step with the law that we are discussing here today. In my first term, therefore, I said that the UN Convention which was sent to the Chamber by the government can count on our agreement. With this treaty and with all kinds of laws in the area of care, education and support, with the Environmental Law, the Building Decree and many other laws, the framework conditions for inclusive society are laid down. However, you cannot regulate everything by law. Society also has a move to make. It is my firm belief that you can do and achieve a great deal if you put your hands together. The VVD pursues no other goal than my colleagues here, but has a different opinion on how you achieve it. The Chamber is not only a auditor, but also a co-legislator. This obliges us to monitor that laws that are going to apply to every Dutchman are proportionate and that they contribute to the goal that we have in mind. The legislation now before us provides a good balance between rights and obligations, the interests of various groups in society and the importance of emancipation and the rights of people with disabilities, all on the road to a society in which everyone can participate. The proposals put forward by my fellow Members in the form of amendments do have sympathetic aims which are worth pursuing, but the VVD is not convinced that this will require legal anchoring. Take the amendment which seeks to require the accessibility of voting rooms. That sounds nice, but dealing with this in such a rigid way means at the same time taking the risk that people who are badly on their feet will have to walk longer to a polling room that is farther away, and that only because it has to meet all the requirements. In such a case, the law misses its purpose. That is why I will not support that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u86	I am pleased that Mrs Van Ark is still addressing her concern that if this amendment was adopted, too few voting rooms would be included, which gives me the opportunity to refute that argument. The amendment explicitly states that the College must explain to the city council why 100% would not be feasible. That people should go too far because there are not enough accessible buildings could be a reason. This 100% could not be achieved because otherwise people would have to go too far, and that could be a good reason to settle for 80% or 90%. Does Mrs Van Ark take that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u87	I hear Mrs Voortman say a number of things. We believe that the municipality is the place where decisions of this kind should be taken. We have weighed this up and discussed it. After weighing up all the arguments, including Mrs Voortman's argument, we decided not to support this amendment. I think it would be a good idea to make that clear now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u88	This can indeed be discussed in the city council, but the current proposal of the cabinet states: at least 25%. So we're going from 25% to at least 25%. Isn't that very skinny?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u89	As far as I'm concerned, that's not enough. In my introduction, I asked myself whether we should anchor everything in the law in order to achieve our goal. I have seen the government's efforts in this area. I think it is sufficient for the time being and therefore I will not support this amendment. I shall come back to two specific questions that I have asked. I thank the government for its enlightening explanation of the obligation to make reasonable adjustments. I do have a further question about the answer to the questions about the assistance dog. In his reply, the Secretary of State refers to "help dogs" and "blind guide dogs." There is a discussion going on about whether the term "assistance dog" is better. Is it just a question of terminology or does the term "assistance dog" also have a legal meaning? And when it comes to terminology only, are the assistance dogs covered by the extension of the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of disability or chronic illness? If the amendment only has a symbolic purpose, my group is reluctant to do so, precisely for that reason of symbolism. This does not say anything about the importance of these dogs, but rather about the need for this amendment, from our point of view as legislator. I'd like another comment on this. I come to the amendment to item No. 36; the last time we discussed this, that was the amendment to item No. 17. It is harsh, but let me just say as it is: this is a technical and substantively bad amendment. After all, it imposes an obligation on entrepreneurs whose scope is unclear. It is unclear what entrepreneurs should adhere to. It is not clear how case law will develop. It is unclear to whom the "ban on discrimination" is addressed. That is why the VVD will vote against this amendment. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he shares the VVD's view that the adoption of this amendment leads to uncertainty. I would also like to hear whether he shares our fears that this will lead to an increase in legal proceedings for entrepreneurs. Is this true? The government agreement states that the Netherlands will ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, provided that the following obligations can be implemented gradually. I understand that the government is dissuading the amendment because it believes that the amendment goes against the government agreement. I share that view. That is why the VVD will vote against the amendment. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what the Cabinet will do with the law if the amendment is adopted in the Lower House. With this amendment in the law, we cannot support the implementing law. It is ill-imaginable that a cabinet should pass a law from the coalition agreement that is not supported by both coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mrs Van Ark says that the amendment tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and others. is contrary to the coalition agreement. We hadn't discussed that scenario. I hear Mrs Van Ark say that this is evident from the letter from the Secretary of State. However, I have not been able to read that in that letter. Can Mrs Van Ark indicate what passage she is referring to? It may not be decisive for us, but it is interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u91	I have indicated that the letter from the government in which it advises the amendment contains arguments showing that the amendment is not about graduality. That is the condition laid down in the coalition agreement. Hence my question to the Secretary of State and hence my interrupting debate with the author of the amendment. I want to know what that graduality is all about. That is why it was important for me to postpone the second deadline. If the graduality is limited to the explanatory statement and is not included in the legislative text, I regret to conclude that the amendment is contrary to the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u92	We're about to hear it from the Secretary of State, but I read in the Secretary of State's letter that the government has chosen a different route. That is the current proposal, and not so much accessibility as standard. Furthermore, the letter states that there are legal uncertainties about it. We can't see the legal consequences. I'll take those two aspects out of the letter. Where does the VVD state in the letter that the amendment is contrary to the coalition agreement, because it would not be gradual enough? That is also something that is literally stated in the explanatory statement to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u93	You can say a lot of things in an explanatory statement, but that's the same thing as shouting louder. That doesn't make your arguments any clearer either. The fact that a word has been included in the explanatory statement does not mean that it really is. The first paragraph of the amendment concerns a duty that begins. That is the factual new situation at the time the King signs his signature and the law appears in the Official Journal. This is not just a debate, it is a legislative debate. If we had a debate on the importance of inclusion and the importance of inclusive society, that explanatory statement could be a very good text in such a debate. But we're talking about a law here. This means that we are imposing obligations on society as a whole. That means it has to be very clear. The agreements are framed by the government agreement, to which the government has complied with the original law. We wholeheartedly support them. I also think that it is a very nice law and that it is a very big step, with a plan of action and a working method. I have concluded that this amendment is contrary to the coalition agreement and I also draw that conclusion from the cabinet letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u94	Then we witness the first strong political clash between the PvdA and the VVD in the new year 2016. The good news is that there has rarely been a collision over a coalition agreement that was concluded so long ago. This indicates that the parties have been holding out with each other for a long time. As I recall, the coalition chord was called "Striking Bridges." Would it still be possible to bridge the gap between the amendment as it stands and the VVD's and the SGP's desire to achieve greater legal certainty? I have made some suggestions for this in my contribution. How does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u95	There are indeed days between now and the vote. The implementation of the UN Convention is a celebration that, as far as I am concerned, we are allowed to celebrate. There is now a wonderful proposal for it in the Chamber. That proposal comes from a government of which the VVD is also part. I'm sorry that this way we're actually looking at how that party might turn out to be a damper. I think so. If you can't have a party, it's a bit of a damper. It is a pity that we have to do so here in this Chamber. On the other hand, we said yesterday: let us have the debates here. As far as I am concerned, the coalition agreement is clear. If either side says that this amendment does not comply with it, it is difficult to maintain that it does. Because it takes two to dance the tango.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u96	The party's not over yet, so maybe we can get better champagne. What is the position of Mrs Van Ark of the VVD Group that we should make a mandatory provision instead of a provision? In that case, the amendment of the law will only apply if there are actual detailed rules, in which the graduality and the exact provisions to be expected will be completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u97	Bridges come in many shapes and sizes, to stay in the imagery of Mr Van der Staaij. What I see is that the material that the bridge is made of, the parts of the coalition agreement, is very clear. The condition for the gradual implementation of the following obligations under the Treaty is for me to weigh an amendment. If an amendment is in there, I am very willing to add such a pendulum to the party. Otherwise, I think we should celebrate the fact that the cabinet has put forward a very nice proposal here. We should put that into practice first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mrs. Van Ark says a lot. Let me start with the positive. Of course, that's why we're having the party. The Netherlands is one of the last countries to ratify the Convention. Finally, after ten years of gradual debate, it is time for pace. The Government Agreement agreed that the Convention should be ratified, but that the obligations arising therefrom should be implemented gradually. That is quite literally the text contained in the explanatory statement of the amendment. That explanation is part of the legal history, as is what we are exchanging here, and is therefore part of the law. Following on from what Mrs Bergkamp said, I would like to know specifically on the basis of which passage Mrs Van Ark says: that is not entirely true. You can't do that. You cannot say "it is contrary to the coalition agreement" and then say "it feels that way"; then it must also be hardened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u99	Those to whom the prohibition of discrimination is addressed shall also ensure general accessibility for persons with disabilities or chronic illness, unless this imposes a disproportionate burden on them. That is a situation that arises overnight when the law comes into force. By inserting the word "conductivity" into the explanatory memorandum, this legal passage does not lead to any gradual progress. I asked Mr Van Dijk how he saw this. That obligation arises from one day to the next. There is a great deal of uncertainty for those to whom this ban is addressed. There is even uncertainty about the target group: who are "the ones to whom this ban is addressed"? The cabinet itself has opted for another method, which has the full agreement and support of the VVD Group. It is a working method with a plan of action whereby parties that matter and are actually committed to all kinds of results. It's not like we're going nowhere. I don't take the graduality out of it. I have not received sufficient answers to my question as to whether it is an objective or an obligation in various debates. Then I fall back on the graduality, also because we are conducting more than a policy debate from our legislative work here. We must balance the interests of all the groups in our country, including those of entrepreneurs, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u100	I assume that Mrs Van Ark also believes that the Netherlands should be accessible and that people should be able to take a bus and visit a restaurant or a website. Then it's about the way you choose to do it. It can be done through a plan of action, but it can also be done through a legal provision. In the end, it is this Chamber that makes a choice and says: we do it through a plan of action, the vagueness that is now present, or a better plan of action, or we choose a legal provision. That's a choice that lies with the Chamber, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u101	Let me say first of all, and I repeat it to Mrs Agema: if one does not take care of it, I would be the first to include anyone who says that that is incredibly bullshit and how stupid that is. It is true that we are only discussing the road to it. We are talking about this here in this Chamber, but there are two parties who have agreed on it within what frameworks they do things. As far as we are concerned, it is not in vain that the following obligations should be implemented gradually. One of the two parties that have jointly concluded a coalition agreement does not reflect the graduality of this agreement. Furthermore, Mr Van Dijk has been warmly invited to come forward with a proposal which is within the agreed framework. I really support that, but that ball lies with the person who wants to make a change, not with the person who keeps the agreement that was made at an earlier stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u102	That graduality is in the text, isn't it? I don't quite see what Mrs. Van Ark's problem is. I also think that if the VVD says: it does not fit in with the coalition agreement, it should be very clear, why not. That graduality is literally in it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u103	What happened is this. As a result of the debate, and I have said this to Mr Van Dijk earlier, the word 'conductivity' has been included in the explanatory statement. However, the amendment itself, the legal text that is being added, can be either A or B, but not something in between. That can't be gradual. The introduction of this term in the explanatory memorandum does not mean that the law itself has that graduality. The law comes into force from one moment to the next. Then whoever is subject to the prohibition must comply with it, regardless of what is stated in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u104	The explanation is correct to explain that it does not need to be done overnight! We all understand that this is not arranged with a snap of fingers. That explanatory statement is exactly what you're saying. What the VVD is saying here just doesn't add up. I think that the accusation that it is contrary to the coalition agreement is quite serious; Mrs Van Ark must make it clear. I haven't heard much of that so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u105	I have made several comments on this, and I have pointed out the lack of clarity. That is also my argument. I certainly don't say that lightly. I too think this is a big issue, but I think this is the place to say it. After all, it is a very important law, a law with potentially very serious consequences. If we do not know clearly what we entrust to people, then we must also take responsibility here as co-legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u106	I cannot escape the impression that the VVD Group is now using procedural and formal arguments against this amendment. I find that extremely regrettable. We have always exchanged views on previous legislative proposals that not only the precise provisions of the law are important, but also what is stated in the explanatory statement, what we are discussing here as MPs and what the Secretary of State will send us in writing. This is part of the legal history and will therefore always have an impact on the legal text itself. Surely the VVD Group can't deny that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u107	I wholeheartedly support the observation that this is formal and procedural. This is a legislative debate, which is formal and procedural. If an entrepreneur is faced with this law, it can look forward to all kinds of formal procedures. If at the moment we do not have a clear idea of what that influence is, when we do know that this influence is great, as the government states in its letter, then we have a task as co-legislator. This is not just a policy debate. What we are doing here, the words we are saying here, are formal and have a very big impact. I am very aware of my role as co-legislator. That is why I said at the beginning: that we all pursue the same goal does not mean that we agree on the road to it. It is precisely because it is so formal, precisely because it may mean that a shopkeeper is faced with fines if he has not properly adapted his shop, precisely because we are all concerned in this Chamber when a lot of shops are empty on a shopping street, and precisely because we are concerned about employment, we are now moving additional rules towards those same entrepreneurs. We can only do that if we know what we are doing. That clarity is not in this, and I am so formal and procedural that I take a debate on legislation seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u108	The word 'fine' does not appear in the amendment at all, let me correct it first. And indeed, procedures, legislation, that is what we are talking about here. Then I think we should talk about the right procedural arguments, and I note that the VVD is making a very one-sided story. It looks only at the three articles of the law, but then ignores the explanatory statement and ignores what we are exchanging here in the debate, which is always part of the overall legal process. If the issue I do not expect to cause problems directly on the first day, this will indeed be taken into account in the final assessment of a situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u109	It is precisely because the explanatory statement, the debate, the letters we have received, etc., are all part of the legal history that I have touched on this amendment in the debate. I have asked the petitioner whether it is an ambition or an obligation. I asked what the consequences of a target were. I asked what the financial consequences are; there is no clarity about this either. I tried to get that clarity, because I think it is important to consider those aspects. The story I'm putting out here today, I don't keep it lightly. I have not received sufficient answers to my questions to say whether it meets what I think a law should comply with, but also whether it complies with the frameworks we have laid down in the coalition agreement. The answer to that is no. I make that assessment here, and I thought it would be good and fair to give it to you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u110	Please continue. I think you're gonna have to finish up, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u111	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. We are opposed to this amendment, but we are very much in favour of the plan of action, which will bring the whole of society, entrepreneurs, citizens and organisations into line with our common goal. I'm rounding up. Those who listen carefully to the VVD see a common thread in our views on special groups in society. We always do not want groups to be included in society because we force people to do so. We want people to be part of our society because we see the qualities of every human being, whether they are women in the labour market, homosexuals in a football association or people with disabilities. These are different groups, but with the agreement that they do not always automatically have a place. That is our image of an inclusive society. The VVD Group believes that the treaty as it stands is right to the safeguards that should be laid down for this group in the law and at the same time to the strength of society itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u112	One question, Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u113	What will the VVD do when Mr Van Dijk and others' amendment is adopted next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u114	Then the VVD will vote against the Implementing Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u115	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs a half-hour suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me congratulate you on your new post from this place, also on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u118	I look forward to working together in the near future. I would like to thank Members for their input and the questions they have asked in the second term. It is clear that we are not just talking about the importance of ratifying the Convention. I have noted that everyone in the Chamber supports the ratification of the Treaty and I think that Mr Van Dijk and others have rightly mentioned it as an historic moment. We have been discussing the ratification of the Convention for some ten years now. Moreover, there are a number of very explainable and good reasons behind this, including a proper review of the existing legislation. I think it is very important that we make every effort to ensure that this ratification can be led by the two chambers of the States General after ten years of discussion. I note, on the basis of the input of the Chamber, that there are many questions about the steps that the Netherlands still has to take. I refer to the discussion on the implementation plan. I would point out that in the debate, in the first term and also now, after the approval of the assistance dogs, I have shown that I am very willing to cooperate with the parties...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u119	... to look at how we can make that implementation plan as concrete as possible, in which areas we are going to take further steps and according to what timeframe that will happen. I attach great importance to the views of the experience experts, the municipality and the business community. I say this again, because I think it is important that we not only adopt a law which regulates a number of rights, but also, above all, adopt a law which gives rise to the formation of this accessible society. I do not think there should be any discussion in this Chamber. The State will not ratify this treaty for nothing. As a contracting party, the State is responsible for its implementation. After the treaty has been ratified, one could say that there is an insuring role of the government in the implementation of the treaty. That is an important element. I noticed in the discussion how important it is to have a standard, regardless of whether it comes into the law. We have a standard and it is perfectly achieved by the ratification of the Convention. The treaty is not unstandard. It is good to point out explicitly here Article 9: "In order to enable persons with disabilities to live independently and participate fully in all aspects of life, the States Parties shall take appropriate measures to ensure access to the physical environment, to transport, information and communication, including information and communication technologies and systems, and to other facilities and services open to, or provided to, the public, in both urban and rural areas." The ratification of the Treaty is an important task for the government to ensure that it is anchored in society. The ratification of the Convention is anything but non-binding. We are steadily moving towards an inclusive society, in which everyone can participate on an equal footing. This means that the government is responsible for complying with the Convention and that new laws and regulations do not conflict with the Convention and, even more importantly, contribute to the inclusiveness of society. Maybe we should talk right now about the discussion on the relationship between the Van Dijk amendment. This was amendment No. 17 but is now amendment to item No. 36 p.m. and this law. Mr Van Dijk's amendment sets the standard in the law and also states that he must be reasonable, fair and not impose a disproportionate burden. It is added that it must be basic and simple. The explanatory statement states that the amendment aims to achieve gradual implementation of the Treaty obligations. In the cabinet, we have adjusted and weighed the pros and cons of this amendment. That's why I've been asking for some time to put it right. This has meant that we have found that we do not disagree on the purpose or even on the promotion of general accessibility. However, we do have questions about what this general standard in the law means. Where the government has chosen to ensure individual rights and gradually achieve accessibility through an implementation plan in consultation with the parties, the amendment regulates that standard in the law and then considers to what extent it can be reasonably and fairly achieved. In my view, therefore, there is not so much difference in substance between the amendment and the way in which the cabinet operates. I would like to make a few comments on this later. However, it has already been asked in the Chamber what it means, exactly what obligations we have, and how to describe this graduality, the difference between, on the one hand, a legal standard that has to be achieved gradually and, on the other hand, a right of an individual and gradual implementation through a plan of action. There is an essential difference. There may indeed be discussions about what it means for the case law, whether you rely on a legal standard or a practical standard. The government has said in the explanation that it attaches great importance to doing so by means of a practical standard. This does not raise the question of implementation, or at least to a lesser extent. It is very important to avoid these implementation questions through a shared approach, both on the ground and on timing, perhaps in order to avoid delays and legal discussions. A practical approach might work better than a legal standard in the light of the objectives of the Convention. My observation is that the goal is the same and that the gradual achievement is pursued by everyone, but that the approach differs. This approach does have consequences. Of course, it matters what you have to base yourself on. The law does indeed arise when the law is signed. I think a number of Members of the Chamber have rightly pointed this out. It is true that there is a chance that legal discussions will arise and that case law will arise, which will entail a different certainty or, as some say, uncertainty than an approach through the plan of action. That is why the government attaches great importance to the way it works. That is the reason why the amendment should be interpreted as it is. Mr Van der Staaij pointed out that the additions, which we very much appreciate, do not mean that we can come up with another explanation of the amendment. I've been watching the discussion a little bit. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij said that the party has not yet started and that it might be wise to examine together what the elements might be to build bridges. The House is, of course, concerned with its own amendments. I'm not going in there. For the government, it is important, I say in support of the explanation, that the element of graduality is firmly expressed. I think it is wise that this is also part of the discussion that emerged in this Chamber in order to create an AMvB. With that AMvB you can monitor the process, so that you can slow it down where it would go too fast, and where it would go too slowly something can stimulate. I think it is therefore necessary to have some time to look at what this AMvB should focus on. We're making a plan of action. You can then see if that comes from the ground and if the realization is on a good track. Where it's going too fast, you can brake, and where it's slow, you can gas. I can imagine that gradualness, an AMvB that can kick and slow down and some time to see where such an AMvB could focus are elements that the Chamber and the authors of the various amendments could still use until the vote, so that they can see if a bridge can be built. I would certainly appreciate it from the government's side if that could happen between the various proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u120	I see that there are several spokesmen on the Interrupt Microphone, but first I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk. He tabled the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u121	We strive for an accessible society. You can indeed choose between different paths that lead there. Do you choose the way through self-regulation and a plan of action? Or do you choose the way through a rule of law? I believe that the Secretary of State has noted this very well. It is up to the Court to consider this matter in the end. However, I have a more factual question. The Secretary of State also said that an AMvB could be added. However, as a result of the discussion we had before the recess, the possibility of drawing up an AMvB has been added. This allows gas to be given or braked. The Secretary of State said: I would highly recommend that. Of course, I listen to that very carefully. However, this warm recommendation has been taken over by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u122	That's right. That is what I believe is in Article 2b. A possibility to create an AMvB has been included. Now there's some kind of double blow. There is, on the one hand, a general standard which raises the objections raised by the government in its interpretation. What does that general norm mean? What kind of obligation does it lead to, exactly? What is the timing of that obligation? These objections have also been raised in the Chamber by some members. On the other hand, there is the AMvB. I could imagine that the expression of graduality, combined with an AMvB and the implementation plan, would lead to elements that could lead to the integration of the various views. In my opinion, the element of the AMvB in the amendment is valuable. I think it is also a valuable addition to the law. It is a matter of which combination such an AMvB could be added to the regulation, including the other elements I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u123	I need to land this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u124	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u125	The amendment now sets a standard for general accessibility. An AMvB may be drawn up for its implementation. The explanatory statement states that it can be done gradually. Reasonability, fairness and all such elements are mentioned in the article of law itself. Does the Secretary of State now want to link that AMvB with the plan of action? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u126	Yes. In the government's view, people with disabilities can derive rights from having access to the places where they want to stay, want to recreate or whatever. That's settled in the law of execution. Another discussion is on how to promote general accessibility. Mr Van Dijk's amendment states that this is promoted by setting a general legal standard, together with the possibility of an AMvB. That general legal standard raises a number of questions. What exactly does that mean? The standard will apply when the law comes into force. What does that mean for legal certainty? Is that sufficiently clear? This raises a number of questions in the Chamber. On the other hand, there is the method of implementation, in order to promote the direction of implementation. Everyone is also in favour of this method, and several motions have also been tabled on this subject. Suppose there is now a good implementation and on that basis we can conclude where it goes too slowly and where too quickly. On that basis, we could then come to such an AMvB that is more focused on that gradual achievement. In this way, I believe we have the elements on the table that have been widely discussed in this debate. These elements could possibly bring together the views expressed in the Chamber on this subject. It is, of course, up to the Chamber itself to decide. There is still time to vote. However, I would like to appeal to the spokesmen to see what is possible and what is not possible. I believe that this was also the result of the suggestions made by Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u127	That's right. Mrs Keijzer also said that she was actually looking for that. I have agreed with her that we will table a sub-amendment tomorrow. First of all, it states that this is not a decision, but that there must be an AMvB. Secondly, there is a legal definition of graduality. Thirdly, it states that the time when the law enters into force may be different for different provisions. I do not know if that is already in the legislation. I would like that to be looked at, so that the introduction of the whole law will not be delayed further if it takes a little more time. I'd like to name those elements right now. I would also ask the Secretary of State if a response from the cabinet could be forthcoming as soon as the legislative proposal has been tabled. After all, I do not want the process to be delayed much more than it already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u128	Mr Van der Staaij mentioned a number of interesting elements. I also mentioned them in my speech. If the eye of the cabinet is needed to bring the views together, it is very willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u129	Thank you, also for the technical assistance. However, I also mean that the cabinet gives its opinion to the Chamber, which is of course important in view of the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u130	We have little time left and we need to finish this debate. Mr Van Dijk was right to point this out. It is up to the Chamber to decide whether there will be any other amendments. I will quickly ensure that technical assistance is provided and that, where necessary, an assessment is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u131	I have listened very carefully to the Secretary of State, but I still do not understand what he has said about the linking of the approach plan with the AMvB. Would the Secretary of State like to explain that one more time? The amendment includes a standard. That standard does not mean that everything must be accessible immediately on day one, but that we will work gradually towards accessibility from day one. Will this standard apply immediately when the amendment is adopted, or should we wait until there is a plan of action and an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u132	In the government's view, on the one hand, we had the implementing law, which contained an individual right to access. On the other hand, we had the promotion of general accessibility through the implementation of the implementation plan. I conclude from the discussion that there are doubts as to whether this is not too non-committal and that there are doubts as to how access is further promoted. In that case, you can choose two ways. You can try to incorporate a legal standard into the law, as proposed in Mr Van Dijk's amendment. It can be said that although it is the legal standard, there are a number of limitations: it must be reasonable and fair, it must be gradual and so on. That is a certain way of thinking: a legal standard with a number of conditions. The disadvantage of this is that you get discussions about how exactly the legal standard should be interpreted. What does it mean for case law and for the certainty that entrepreneurs, for example, can experience in the implementation of the Convention? These are the disadvantages of this construction in the eyes of the cabinet. Another view is the following. The Cabinet shall draw up an implementation scheme for individuals and an implementation plan which will bring them closer to general accessibility. In addition, the Cabinet has the possibility to include an AMvB in the legislation, which allows the process to be steered if it is too fast or too slow. On the basis of the actual, practical implementation of the law, you have a stick behind the door to ensure that the treaty obligations are gradually fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u133	Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u134	I think the Secretary of State's conclusion is that he's not advising the amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u135	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u136	... but that he finds the element of the AMvB to steer the process a sympathetic part of the amendment. The first part of the amendment, the standard to be implemented fairly and fairly, therefore rejects the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u137	That's right. The cabinet's objections focus on the standard, because it concerns the question of how to ensure that there are fewer execution questions in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u138	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u139	It is quite right that a large number of speakers have pointed out that this development is in keeping with the awareness that it requires a very good dialogue between those involved in order to take the steps needed to improve accessibility. It calls for a firm and concrete agenda at local level, where the difference must be made for the people. That is why I very much appreciate having discussions with various experience experts, people with disabilities, in the run-up to the implementation plan. I'm definitely going to involve them in the further implementation of the law. Several groups have already been mentioned. I think it is very important to look at what needs to be firmly on the agenda for the coming period from the experience of people with disabilities. At national level, we can then see how this can be stimulated at local level. In this way, a practical approach is adopted at local and national level, which actually leads to the necessary improvements for people. I look forward to that process with a great deal of ambition. If we use this law to take the historic step towards ratifying that treaty, an important law will be created for people with disabilities. Above all, however, what it will mean for them in practice is important. That is why the cabinet attaches such great importance to a practical approach. There have been a number of questions that I would like to deal with first. Then I will give my explanation to the seventeen motions that have been tabled. Mr Van Gerven asked about the review by the College of Human Rights. The college has different tasks. One of them is to investigate whether a distinction is made in response to a complaint. In carrying out this task, the College of Human Rights may not review the rules in accordance with the Convention, but may issue an opinion. Mr Van Gerven asked: what are you doing with that opinion? It's an advice. It is not binding, but the College of Human Rights is an authoritative body. The government will therefore have to act on a reasoned basis. Mr Van Gerven further asked when the analysis of the Ministry of Security and Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be ready to ratify the optional complaint law protocol. I have already promised in my first term that I will present this to my colleagues. It's impossible for me to outline a timetable. Moreover, individual complaint law is a relatively new task for all the committees concerned. It is therefore difficult to foresee how complaints about socio-economic issues will be dealt with in member countries. That's actually the explanation why I can't indicate a time frame. As I said, I put this question to my colleagues. They will respond to this. Mr Van Gerven also asked whether the research of the University of Utrecht was involved in the analysis of the optional protocol. On behalf of OCW, the Human Rights Study and Information Centre at the University of Utrecht has carried out a study into the consequences of the complaint law. This investigation has been sent to the Chamber. It was limited to the policy area of education and covered another treaty. However, the findings of the report will be taken into account in the decision-making process on the ratification of the Complaints Protocol. Mr Van Gerven also made a number of comments on inclusive society and all the laws on care that have recently been adopted. It won't be strange for him that I don't share his vision. I believe that the decentralisations, in which we take more account of personal circumstances, offer an enormous opportunity for people in a vulnerable position. We do not have a general policy, but rather take much more account of the personal situation of people. Let us not continue this debate. We have done so extensively. I do not think we agree on this point. Mr Van Gerven also made a number of comments on the special assistance. He asked if the cabinet realizes that it can be humiliating. I realize that feeling. For my part, and certainly on behalf of the cabinet, I would like to say that special assistance in certain situations is a right and not a favour. People who have to call on special assistance should not feel humiliated when they invoke this right. This right does not exist for nothing, precisely in support of those who need support. Mr Van Gerven further asked about the role of the Ministry of the Interior in making voting rooms accessible. Home Affairs has drawn up a checklist of accessibility criteria for voting rooms. That includes the legal requirement of at least 25%. The criteria are about accessibility, accessibility, usability and communication. For each election, the checklist is brought to the attention of the municipalities, requesting that the criteria be taken into account when designating voting rooms. This is the subject of information. The final responsibility for the accessibility of the polling rooms lies with the College of Mayors and aldermen, as has also been pointed out by several MPs. That's responsible to the council. I also think it is right that this particular gremium should be considered, for example, between the number of voting rooms and their accessibility. I think that's the right place for that. Mr Van Gerven also asked how we are going to ensure that policy makers take into account people with disabilities and, above all, how we are going to ensure that accessibility is taken into account in public administration and in society. I have just tried to point out that raising awareness is one of the most important policies to ensure that blind spots in the area of accessibility can be addressed. The public authorities and the public administration must set a good example in this respect. For example, the accessibility of public buildings is regulated in the Building Decision 2012. It shall describe how many square metres the accessibility sector shall be the space which is independently usable for persons with disabilities. All information provided by public authorities via the Internet should be accessible. The public sector websites must comply with the web guidelines drawn up internationally. I am very impressed and the same is true of my colleagues, because the consequences of this treaty naturally also involve a task for the government to take the lead wherever possible. This concerns public communications, for example on websites, but also on the accessibility of public buildings. It must be absolutely clear that the government has an exemplary role to play. The government should regard this treaty as a task for itself to set a literal and figuratively good example. I come to Mrs Keijzer's questions. I think that her questions about my assessment of the amended amendment have now been dealt with in sufficient detail. Mrs Keijzer also asked how the European directive on accessibility relates to the ratification of the UN Convention, including the amendments tabled on that point. We are going to talk about this in detail. I believe that the Court has now received the sheet on this subject. There's a substantive and a legal component to it. The European Commission's directive uses the internal market as a basis. In fact, it is about an internal market in relation to the products of people with disabilities. That's another foundation. The government has indicated that it is wondering whether this is a good basis for a European directive. In this sense, the directive goes a little further than the UN Convention and the amendments, because the directive mainly uses internal market considerations to achieve a level playing field for products and services for people with disabilities. The Chamber has been able to read the comments made by the government. As a headline: the European directive goes a little further on a number of points, but the government is actually questioning whether the basis chosen in it is the right one. This view is also shared by more Member States. That will therefore give rise to the necessary discussion. Mrs Keijzer also asked when the plan of action would be implemented. As I have said, I would very much like to work with the designated parties and experience experts to ensure that specific accessibility objectives are set. This must be done on the basis of problems actually experienced by people. We will also see at national level how we can give the necessary impetus locally. This also explains the active involvement of the Association of Dutch Municipalities in this approach. We're already working on that, of course. That involvement is already there. I have good hopes that in the middle of this year I will be able to present a concrete plan of action to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u140	This will therefore be an elaboration of the plan of action implementing the UN Convention on Disabilities. That is being worked out, and the Secretary of State, as I have asked, is going to include very precisely what exactly is going to happen when. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u141	As I have tried to point out in the debate, the plan of action now before us actually describes the method of the plan of action. How do we work together with the parties to achieve concrete objectives? In what areas do they see? Which timelines should we consider? This is important for the cabinet, as this will lead to a gradual realization. So we can look together to see what's going to happen. To paraphrase Mr Van Dijk: it is not self-evident. He's absolutely right about that. This means that you should not only have this law, with a number of rights and a number of movements that you want to make in society. It's just not gonna happen on its own. This means that, in the government's view, there must be a plan of action, an elaboration of this document with an objective in a number of policy areas and the timetables used. Then I'll come in on the help and outside the voting booth. Outside the voting booth, all voters can be provided with the help they need, such as explanations on how to fill in the ballot. That help can be provided by a person of your choice. You can see, also internationally, that it becomes more difficult and exciting when that happens within the voting booth. We do not think it is the right way to demonstrate a mental disability, as some Members of Parliament have suggested. Mrs Keijzer suggested that this can be proved if a provision is made by the Wmo. That makes it very complicated in the voting booth, if someone who gets domestic help from the Wmo on that basis gets or doesn't get help in the voting booth. The government is indeed adopting a cautious approach. We want to avoid appearances. This means that we do not take people who, for whatever reason, cannot indicate what the problem is, literally and figuratively by hand and offer help in the voting booth. We do not think it is the right way to make the intellectual limitation provable. Not only does it depart from the principle set out in the letter of the Chamber that a voter casts his own vote, but it would also lead to bureaucracy in the polling office if you had to look at the limitations that a person has and whether or not you should offer help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u142	Still, it's weird. If you have a physical disability, someone can help you in a voting booth. If you have an intellectual disability, it is by definition impossible. It seems that the Secretary of State assumes that anyone with learning difficulties can be easily influenced. You have a lot of different degrees. The same applies to people with mental illness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u143	I very much agree with Mrs Bergkamp, but precisely because you cannot determine that, you cannot determine what extent of influence might occur. That's one of the problems. A person with a physical disability can help you get into the voting booth or close the door or curtain. Unfortunately, it's still often curtains, I think. Then there is de facto no influence. Finding out what form of restriction creates an influence is not a matter for those who sit in polling stations. That is not their competence, and we should not want it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u144	This is some kind of black and white image. It is not a question of asking for voting advice. Someone wants to know how it works in a voting booth. The Secretary of State indicates that the cabinet is very cautious about this, but I think this is very black and white. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to join us in thinking about getting this done anyway. It is black and white that people with physical disabilities can be helped and people with intellectual disabilities cannot, by definition, be helped at all. If you're suffering from stress disorder, you can't be helped in one of those booths. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u145	I tried to argue the following. If someone with a stress disorder is in a booth and asks who to vote for, then it's clear you can't do that. And it is unacceptable for him to say: tell me that on a certain list I am not going to call a number "to vote." It is complicated to have to make this type of choice in the polling station and to weigh it all down. I would add this to the fact that I did not receive a signal at the various elections that this is now a very serious problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u146	I am also very concerned about the whole discussion on this issue. I don't think it's a big problem either. Still, I'm being addressed by the same person on this. It is a young man with an intellectual disability who wants it very much, but does not manage to do it in the voting booth. And he knows very well what he wants. I agree with the Secretary of State that you shouldn't want people affected. We all share that. And yet, and yet, and yet, the Secretary of State cannot consider whether there is anything in the vg sector, which I think we are talking about in particular, on the basis of which the president of a polling office can determine by simple means whether someone has any intellectual disabilities? The President already has far-reaching powers. For example, he's allowed to evict people from the polling station.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u147	You will notice that I am very hesitant about this, because we would ask the president of the polling station to assess the extent to which there is an intellectual limitation that could lead to someone being helped. That requires an assessment of the situation and that goes a little far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u148	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u149	That's not what I mean. I can also see that you cannot ask a president of a polling station who has a completely different job in his daily life; it is only a volunteer to determine for a moment whether someone has an intellectual disability. I am thinking of an indication or something that has been recognised in the vg sector. The interest organisation Each (in) could perhaps be very helpful to the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State not check whether there is anything that makes it easy for a president of a polling station to establish that it is someone with a restriction who can be helped in the voting booth?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u150	I keep having hesitations, because with that you give people a stamp or someone's limitation is such that they may or may not be helped. That raises all kinds of questions in the sense of: why, how do we come to such a thing? It's a problem that I haven't seen yet that it's really very big. I'm sticking to my hesitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u151	Your last interruption, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u152	That's right. I think we had two. I am devoting my last interruption to this subject. It's okay in Belgium and France. I wonder why it is allowed in those countries. The Secretary of State says it's not a big deal. Research shows that 7% of people are unable to vote. I think that is quite a high percentage when it comes to democracy. By the way, I'm not saying it in my head: I think it's 7%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u153	Then I think you're forgetting the possibility of an authorization. That can always be done: everyone can vote by means of an authorisation. Then you'll have help outside the voting booth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u154	Something weird is happening. The Secretary of State refers to an authorization, as if intimidation is not possible, but is it not a matter of people voting themselves? I call once again on the Secretary of State to consider between now and next week's vote what adjustments to my amendment are needed so that he can embrace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u155	You're assuming this hasn't happened yet, but I've been thinking very extensively with you. See what discussions have taken place around elections, such as discussions on whether elections had gone well. This always raises the question of the extent to which there might have been within the voting room or the impression might have been given. I think that the Home Secretary would like to monitor this very closely so that this does not happen. This has led to the cabinet's position. Be assured that I will continue to think along with you if those possibilities exist. Mrs Dik-Faber asked me to discuss with the Secretary of State I and M the accessibility of bus transport and public transport services. Yeah, I want to do that. Mrs GroenLinks asked another question about all voting rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u156	You mean Mrs. Voortman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u157	Did I say "Mrs. GroenLinks"? Can you tell me how much respect I have for her, Mr. President? The prominent MP and prominent member of GroenLinks, Mrs Voortman, has asked why we cannot arrange for all voting rooms to be accessible, sometimes with simple adjustments. We do have a slightly different assessment of the answer to the question of whether the percentage of 100 has significant consequences. The UNG also points this out. Exact amounts are indeed not mentioned by the UNG; this would require further investigation. So it's still a trade-off. Mrs Voortman has also asked where this consideration is being made. I think it's good that it's made at local level. I also think that the 25% is not a minimum for nothing. That percentage is low, but at the same time I think it is a good thing that consideration is made at local level. What happens if the percentage has to be 100? Are we going to have so few polling stations that accessibility will be called into question again? That wouldn't be good. I agree. I also thought that we said that this balance could be made at local level. Then the choice can be made at local level which combination is best locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u158	We would then like to see, in principle, all voting rooms accessible. If that is not possible, there can always be a derogation from it, but it has to be explained why that cannot be done. We have also added the 'comply or explain' paragraph very emphatically. If there were too few polling stations, that should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u159	Perhaps this is a good example of something that can be arranged in the implementation plan: stimulate local plans to make the polling rooms as much as possible and fully accessible. Then you leave to the local level at what rate and to what extent that is achieved. We can take that point very well into account in the implementation plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u160	The cabinet's proposal does not say "as much as possible," but "at least 25%." I'm talking about as much as I can, that is, 100%. That's "as much as possible." If you can't, explain why not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u161	Perhaps it would be a good idea to include this point explicitly in the implementation plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mr Van Dijk, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u163	Is this my last interruption? No, I don't see the clerk looking very strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u164	This is the second one, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u165	It is an important subject, because it may also be a symbol. Here it starts again with setting a standard, namely that of "at least." The UN Convention is a human rights treaty and voting is a civil right. If we then start to bargain about whether 25% of the population is at least sufficient, we will not be able to get there. Then it starts with setting the standard. Everyone should be able to vote in a voting room. I think it's very practical, too. You take a map of your municipality and you see which locations are accessible. If there are not enough, then it is a good thing that there is an amendment from me with others to promote that accessibility. But it does start with setting a standard so that people can exercise their civil rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u166	Here too, we are very much in agreement on the objective we want to achieve, but here is a practical question: what consideration do you make when elections are to be held? Let us take the example of March next year, when we have such a thing. Then you face the question of how many polling rooms are accessible and what it means for the number of polling rooms and the accessibility of the polling rooms if we have to make more polling rooms accessible. That is a legitimate consideration, so that as many people as possible can vote with disabilities. That consideration is very reasonable, but, of course, you should aim to ensure that all voting rooms are accessible in general. At least you have to make sure there's at least a certain percentage. You should also see at what rate you can make them all accessible. I would almost say that this is exactly the approach advocated by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u167	That is exactly the approach that my party is opposed to. If you don't start asking where you want to come from, the road to it is also very free of obligation. Then it's just a matter of planning an approach. You first have to set the standard with each other, and that is that you just need to be able to vote and that society needs to be accessible. The road to it may be gradual and reasonable and "comply or explain," but you first start by saying what we as a modern society want to get out of. That's accessibility for all people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u168	We differ zero percent on that. In the end, it's about what happens in practice. If we were to say that we have the 100% standard, but that it cannot be achieved, there will not be much difference in practice from the approach in which we aim to achieve a minimum of 25% and that we will grow to 100% through an implementation plan. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that it may be a good illustration that both approaches do not differ so much and that we may be able to bridge that gap. Mrs Bergkamp asked whether I recognise that travelling by train for people with disabilities is still complicated and what concrete steps can be taken to make public transport accessible. Yeah, I recognize that. Travelling by train for people with disabilities is not as easy as for people without disabilities. In a European perspective, the Netherlands has its national approach and its ambitious objective of self-accessibility at the forefront. The aim of Dutch public transport is to make this transport accessible gradually and for 100% independently. Indeed, this involves huge investments. More than EUR 660 million will be spent on railway stations alone until 2030. New trains purchased have been made accessible independently. At bus, tram and metro, major steps forward have also been taken in recent years. Half of the bus stops have been adapted and almost 70% of the journeys can be made accessible by bus. Almost a quarter of a billion was spent on adjustments to improve bus stops. But admitted, it's still not as easy as it is for people without disabilities. If it is not possible for people with disabilities to use ordinary public transport, we will arrange separate transport. That is indeed a next best solution, but it is necessary. The transport of people with disabilities is regulated at local level by the municipality and at upper regional level by Valys, as is well known. I think it is a good thing to enter into agreements on punctuality on the part of the carrier. Delays are never excluded, but even if the next is best, you need to make it as accessible and accessible as possible. Mrs Bergkamp also asked whether the problem of assistance dogs and taxis would be resolved if the Bergkamp/Keijzer amendment had been adopted. Yes, a taxi driver is then obliged to allow an assistance dog. Again, a taxi driver may refuse to do so only if the admission of an assistance dog is a disproportionate burden. We can hardly imagine that this situation will arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u169	This situation occurs at the assembly line, just in the city centre of The Hague, here on the corner, by Muslim men saying that a dog is haram and that's why it doesn't come in. What's the penalty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u170	We're going to introduce this treaty. You asked if this is something that results from what we write in this law. My answer to that is yes. I cannot guarantee that there are no hiccups in the execution because people do not want or can keep to it. Of course, there are other things that need to be done. Maybe you'll take to force that this doesn't happen again another taxi, as you pointed out in that example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u171	I don't think that's so strong. I am going to vote for this amendment with complete conviction. We know a dog is a different story after all. I asked the Secretary of State about the sanction. It is an amendment that is likely to be adopted. It'll be incorporated into the law, so it'll include a sanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u172	These signals may give rise to further measures, e.g. towards the taxi company. There may be conversations. The municipality can say in the permit policy that it has an impact on the permit if it occurs again. There is a range of possibilities to ensure the implementation of the Convention. I note that this sets a standard to ensure that there is access for assistance dogs. Mrs Agema asked about the cost of ratifying the Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u173	I have one short question, Mr President. Is it also the case that a taxi driver who refuses someone with an assistance dog is punishable by discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u174	I should study that more closely. I'm not gonna make a statement about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u175	And then you're going to inform the Chamber about that before the votes, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u176	If Mrs Keijzer appreciates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u177	She nods yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u178	Yes. Mrs Agema asked for a cost picture of the ratification of the Treaty. It has been discussed extensively in the context of the Convention. In drawing up all the legislative proposals, the Bureau carried out a financial and economic examination of the costs and benefits and, more specifically, the compliance costs of the extension of the various laws in the field of goods and services. On the basis of this study, it has been established that ex ante, in advance, is not possible to assess the costs and social impacts. This applies both to the advantages and to the disadvantages. On the other hand, there are no signs that this would lead to unacceptable effects. This is one of the reasons why the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal states that two years after the entry into force of the law, it will be considered whether or not this adoption has been justified. If that is the case, we will include it in the cabinet's programme on burden burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u179	I thank the Secretary of State for the answer, but I didn't ask that. The cost picture of the treaty was well known: 0.5 billion to 5.5 billion. It was, I mean, something in that bandwidth. The Secretary of State was very clear just now: a quarter of a billion dollars to make public transport accessible. It seems to me that you can split that up in more areas. My question, however, was about the cost of the amendments. We always think that's very normal. I asked the Secretary of State in the first term and in the second period to take account of the amendments tabled by Members of Parliament, because I believe that we should treat everyone equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u180	I can imagine that Mrs Agema is asking that question, which is a bit of a difficulty in determining the costs and benefits of all these measures. The point is a little bit that you can't tell in general. This leads to changes in practice, which can be very diverse in nature. There are things that actually cost nothing at all, like putting down a shelf. Well, that's gonna cost a shelf. However, there are also costs associated with adapting a building. Of course, that's more expensive. In new buildings, that's different. The same is true of the amendments. The same analysis can therefore be applied to the amendments. The costs are therefore very dependent on the impact in practice. So it's only later that you can see what meaning this has. I can imagine, moreover, that this is a difficult consequence. We all see that. That is why we have gone so far as to deal with the legislative proposal itself. The reasoning behind the legislative proposal therefore also applies to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u181	Mrs. Agema, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u182	I think the Secretary of State is wrong to go along with not treating him equally. Over the years I've seen the craziest cost tags on the table from all kinds of very smart calculators, at VWS, at Finance, you name it. If a quarter of the polling stations are now accessible, the good-looking heads must really be able to calculate what it costs, for example, to make 100% of the polling stations accessible. I think the Secretary of State doesn't want that and that he wants separate treatment, and I think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u183	I can imagine these comments, but even in making the polling stations accessible, it will be a simple slippery slope at one polling station and a staircase lift at the other polling station and at another polling station there will be a question as to whether voting should still take place in the same building. That means you can't properly calculate in advance what it's going to cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u184	Secretary of State, how are you doing answering the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u185	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Ark specifically asked whether the term "assistance dog" has a protected or legal meaning. That is not the case; this term has no specific legal meaning. It's a general term for dogs that help people in their daily lives. I have now come to the interpretation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u186	Indeed, I asked that question in relation to the amendment on assistance dogs. Is this a special case of something already included in the law or is the assistance dog, the help dog and the guide dog already covered by the legislation proposed by the government? In that case, it would only be about making this category visible. That was actually the background to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u187	This is a general, non-legal term for dogs that support people in their daily lives. So it's not a category.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u188	I am referring to the following: is this category implicit in the amendment of this law and does the amendment make this category explicit in that case? You could say that this is symbolic legislation; that's what I called it, a little unkind. Or does the amendment also add some substance to the legal status of people using an assistance dog? If I have to vote in favour or against of this amendment, I think that is very important in my deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u189	You should ask the proposers, but I think they indicated when submitting their amendment that the legislation already regulated accessibility as such, including for people using dogs. They further indicated that they aim to specify the cases of people with an assistance dog. So if you ask if this had already been arranged, my answer is: yes, but the proposers have asked for such a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u190	This is important to me, also because of my speech on legislation. I would therefore like to ask whether I can be told before the vote whether this changes the legal position. I am concerned with the simple question as to whether there is a difference in the legal position of people with a help dog who are refused or not. I would very much like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u191	In view of your input and considerations, I can imagine that you would like to know that before the vote. So I'll do this. I'll move on to the motions. In the first motion, in part No. 37, the government is asked to send a review and review of all existing legislation and lower legislation to the Chamber. In our view, we have done so very comprehensively. We have indicated this in the explanatory statement. The adoption law and the implementing law set out in the article-by-article part of the explanatory memorandum by article what legislation or policy has been in the Netherlands in relevant areas. The legislation also contains provisions to ensure that the lower legislation complies with the obligations under the Convention. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 38 The government is asked to sign the optional protocol soon. I said in the debate that the ratification of the optional protocol is being considered in conjunction with two other complaints legal protocols. We can all see that this is a difficult process. Colleagues are still considering this. We cannot yet indicate a timetable for this. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. However, I have indicated that colleagues will inform the Chamber further on this matter. In the motion in part No. 39 the government is asked to include concrete objectives and a timetable in the plan of action. We have discussed this in great detail in the debate. I have made a number of commitments on this point. I consider this motion to be a policy support and leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion in part No. 40 The government is asked to encourage access to public sector information for people with disabilities. This was also the subject of an exchange of arguments in this debate. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is preparing legislation on this matter. He also made a covenant on accessibility with the government's suppliers. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 41 the government is invited to consult with the national umbrella of the VACs. This is on the premises of my colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst. I would like to respond to this motion in consultation with the Minister for WR. Moreover, the voluntary advisory committees are already looking at the accessibility and adaptability of housing. The Court will be informed of the outcome of this consultation before the summer recess. That is why I leave the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 42 The government is asked to draw up a plan of action for the Caribbean Netherlands on the basis of the results of the inventory. We believe that this motion supports the policy and leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion in part No. 43 the government is invited to include people with disabilities as part of the dialogue with partner countries. This is also part of the regular contacts the Foreign Minister has. My view is that this motion is a policy support, with the remark that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will inform the Chamber more about how that could be done. In the motion in part No. 44 the government is asked to examine the extent to which people with disabilities have representative or administrative functions and the obstacles they face. In the end, I have no objection to this motion, although I do have a bit of a question as to how we are going to investigate it. I ask the Chamber to give me time to clarify that. With that remark, I have no objection to the motion and leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 45 the government is invited to make the debates in the Second and First Chambers followable for people who are deaf or hearing impaired. I tend to ask the President-in-Office to consult with the government on this, because I am not sure that the Chamber itself wants to do so. I assume that this will be the case if the Chamber makes a motion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. Could we agree to observe the right forms for a moment and come back with a letter after I have consulted the Bureau of the Chamber? Maybe it's okay to hold the motion until the consultation has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u192	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u193	Then I'll hold the motion. I'm curious when the letter will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u194	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (33990, 33992, No. 45). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u195	In the motion in part No. 46 the government is asked to take an exemplary role and to take measures to fulfil this role, including with regard to employment participation and (digital) accessibility. We believe that this motion supports the policy. We leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 47 the government is invited, in addition to existing policies, to draw up a plan of approach to accessible public transport together with the public transport sector and experience experts. I would, of course, like to discuss this with Mr van I and Mr M. There is already a plan for accessible public transport. I can say that my colleague from I and M is prepared to give further information to the Chamber. My suggestion would be that I should ask colleagues from I and M to send a letter to the Chamber on this matter. I therefore ask the author to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u196	I am prepared to do so, but I had just asked when the letter would come as a result of the previous motion I had tabled. I would also like to know what that is about with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u197	In the first quarter. Is that what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u198	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u199	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (33990, 33992, No. 47). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u200	In the motion in part No. 48 the government is asked to ensure the involvement of experience experts in national policy, starting with the implementation of the UN Convention. That is a very important and relevant point. Involvement is in place, including in the spirit of the UN Convention. We see the motion as supporting policy and we leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion in part No. 49 the government is invited to invest responsibility for the implementation of the UN Convention with the Minister for the Interior. Although I am to a large extent tempted to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber, I would, in the end, like to advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u201	What is the reason to discourage the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u202	There is already a coordinator of human rights in the Interior. That is the Minister of the Interior at ministerial level. The National Human Rights Action Plan is his responsibility. A specific responsibility, which has already been established in consultation with the Chamber, rests with the Secretary of State of VWS. We do not see any reason to change the distribution of responsibility in this respect. In the motion in part No. 51 The government is asked to pay attention to the importance of assistance dogs in the campaign. That's very important. With the remark that I would like to do so with the experience experts themselves, I leave the assessment of this motion to the Chamber. In the Bergkamp motion in part No. 51 the government is invited to make an effort to break the taboo on the sexuality experience and to consult with a number of organisations to this end. I promised in my letter that I would come up with a plan in mid-2016. I would like to draw up this in consultation with the organisations mentioned by the applicant. So I go in consultation with them. The motion is policy support, and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the Berkkamp/Voortman motion in part No. 16 the Government is invited to examine the resources needed by the Human Rights College. There is no reason for us to assume that we need more resources than we have already agreed with the Human Rights College. I don't think it's right to ask "what do you need?" Just to put it that way. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion. In the Van der Staaij/Dik-Faber motion to item No. 53 the government is invited to examine whether there is any reason to change the policy on abortion for reasons of disability. I think it would be wise to do so on its own merits if there is reason to talk about legislation and regulations on abortion and termination of pregnancy, and not to re-examine this in the light of the Treaty. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u203	If the Otwin Van Dijk amendment is adopted, the UN Convention will change significantly. The Secretary of State is against the adoption of the amendment. My question to him is what he's going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u204	I shall, of course, discuss this in the Cabinet, taking into account all the arguments that have been exchanged in this Chamber, including the motives of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u205	That's a very clever answer from the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u206	I think that the aid dog in the public gallery that is barking now agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u207	I am glad that this is confirmed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u208	Does the Secretary of State go to the First Chamber, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u209	Let us establish where we stand in this debate. A number of amendments have been tabled on the eve of the vote. It has been found that bridges could also be built, which still needs to be investigated. I have shown the willingness to provide hand-out services where the Chamber wishes. I'm not answering what-if questions. There is reason to have good conversations, and we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-9.u210	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions and amendments that have been tabled.
