ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u1	The government's gonna answer. We had the first term of office earlier today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are speaking today on the occasion of the failure of TSN. In the margins of the debate and its agreements, the statements of the Central Appeals Council have been added. A number of great words have been said in this morning's debate and this afternoon's debate. I would like to try to include the nuance and the proportion in this debate. We are talking about a serious bankruptcy of a large home care organisation with many employees. It's important to see what happened there. I will try to show that we have pulled everything out of the closet and pulled everything out to ensure that care continuity can be secured, that as many jobs are preserved as possible, and that, where possible, working conditions also remain intact. Yesterday we also received a ruling from the Central Appeals Board. That statement, I hope and certainly expect, brings to an end a great deal of discussion about how to look at the position of domestic aid in the Wmo. I think we could have a nuanced and proportionate opinion on both points. I'll start with the bankruptcy of TSN. First of all, it is, of course, important to note that a large number of employees have suffered from this in recent months and have been in uncertainty in the run-up to and after the bankruptcy of TSN. It was an exciting, annoying and just nasty period for many clients, but especially for employees, who were insecure and sometimes still uncertain about their job. What have we done together with municipalities and providers in the past period? First of all, we have ensured that the continuity of assistance for clients is regulated as much as possible on time. I think that is very important. This is also in line with the agreements we have made in this Chamber: all those who need help receive this help despite the bankruptcy of the largest provider in the Netherlands. This has required considerable efforts. A large number of employees now have a job with another provider. That is good, but that in itself creates uncertainty. However, it is also simply a good achievement by the providers and the municipalities that have managed to achieve this. I also congratulate the curators, who have also made an important contribution to this result. A lot of appointments have been made. Grosso modo............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Where this did not appear to be or threaten to be the case, immediate action was taken and actions were taken. The municipalities have indicated to the curators and to me that for all people who received help from TSN, it is arranged that they remain assured of help. A great deal of work remains to be done to ensure this continuity. To a large extent, this work is done by former TSN home helpers. The debate has already mentioned that it is known nationally that almost 60% of active home-help workers have a new job with a provider, for the most part while maintaining their previous pay and working conditions. These agreements are made by the curators with the municipalities in the context of the acquisition. There are a number of examples of this. The agreements made vary from Amersfoort, Berkelland, Zaanstad, Rotterdam and Utrecht. For the remaining 40% of the active home help staff, local arrangements have been made without the intervention of the curators. This means that the curators cannot indicate exactly what percentage the job remains, because in those municipalities the municipalities and the clients have been given the direction to opt for a new provider. Following these developments, the department has asked these 81 municipalities about the nature of these agreements. On the basis of this information, I estimate that a substantial part of that group has also been given a new job. This varies from 50% to 80%, so that comes on top of the 60% of home help that has just been mentioned. There are several causes for this major and serious bankruptcy. Everyone can have their own judgment on that. Mrs. Leijten called it "the champion wage dump." Others have talked about a takeover strategy that no longer fully worked. Others have said that it is also due to less money for domestic aid; that too has undoubtedly played a role. I think it is important that we have at least managed to get everything out of the closet to ensure the continuity of care, to maintain as much employment as possible, and where this could be done, I shall come back to this later on to leave the working conditions intact as much as possible. For those who unexpectedly lose their job, the UWV has made additional preparations in the framework of the measures for a start-up to new work. In the course of the debate, the question was asked: how did it happen and what was the direction? Then came the reproach that nothing had been done. I would like to try to indicate that I do not think that is the case. I would remind you that on 22 April 2015, a number of large home care organisations asked for direction from The Hague, in my words, because they felt that in some respects there was too low a rate. I spoke about this the same evening with those home care organisations and a number of municipalities. We agreed at that time that we would do two things: investigate how the legal framework works in practice, and are there obstacles that cause it? Bringing together performance models and examples. I informed the Chamber about this in the letter to the Chamber of 28 April on the future of household care. I have also informed the Chamber about tariff developments. I found that in some respects, depending on how you look at it, the rates are indeed sometimes too low. This has led us to instruct the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment to come up with a code of conduct, a code of conduct for the market. The CNV and the FNV are also invited to do so. They have also contributed to this. In the summer, that code was completed. Municipalities, suppliers and the CNV sign their contracts under the interest of good quality and decent working conditions. At the same time, we have agreed with municipalities, the FNV and the CNV on the future of household care. What perspective do we have to offer? We can, of course, be very concerned about the current situation and the consequences of this, too, but we also need to think about how we would like it in the future and how we are going to move from the present situation to the future. We have been able to agree on a new perspective for home support, on regular jobs and on decent working conditions. In line with these agreements, we have extended the conditions for the household aid payment so that the funds can be used more widely and effectively and thus also be used for, for example, the acute problems of TSN. These agreements have helped to ensure that many of TSN's employees have been able to keep their jobs. In the meantime, the municipalities and the Labour Foundation, in which the trade unions are represented, have established a WMO chamber to further shape the perspective, the long-term development. For example, the question of whether you should go to more home guidance situations in the labour market instead of the different stalls of domestic help, guidance and support is considered. Smart combinations are made in different places in the country. I have to say that the crisis surrounding the large cleaning company TSN has also led to a discussion about principles such as 'local organisation', 'greater attention to craftsmanship', 'greater attention to self-management' and 'the primacy of care professionals', as well as about, if possible, less overhead, more innovation, a real price and good working conditions. It's incredibly worthless when a major provider like TSN goes bankrupt. Maybe it's even more worthless for all the clients, employees and employees involved. At the same time, in our efforts to minimise the impact, we have also managed to reflect and agree on the cultural change needed to look at home care in a different way. Let me be hopeful and reduce it to the right proportions: in that sense I also consider the problem of TSN to be a turning point. It is a turning point, as Mrs van de VVD said, to home care with less large-scale thinking and more small-scale organisations, with more attention to public entrepreneurship that fits with the social challenge of today, with fewer management layers and account managers and with less overhead costs. It is a turning point to "more back to the base," with more attention to the professional, as was rightly said. Sometimes this will be shaped in a care co-operation.I will come back to this later but in any case the work will be organized closer to the people and made smaller. This will also break the negative spiral. With this argument I hope I have indicated that, as far as I am concerned, the bankruptcy of TSN involved two orders. There was a mandate to ensure that as much work as possible is maintained and, if possible, working conditions. But there was also the task of thinking about how to prevent this happening in the future. Because working with less money has consequences. The fact that we have to work in a different way does indeed have consequences. It also means that we need to think about the future of home care. That's what we're gonna have to do with each other. In that sense, it is not appropriate to use the example of TSN to say: look how bad it all is. It also offers an opportunity to think about the question: how can we overcome this crisis around TSN and use it to think about how we want to organise home care in the future? I see, with municipalities and unions, that there is every willingness to do so. It doesn't happen overnight or with a fingernip, but we will have to work on this steadily over the coming period. Municipalities are responsible for responsible care and support and for purchasing them, to which I come back, social partners make agreements on decent working conditions without race to the bottom and individual institutions are responsible for management and personnel policy in cooperation with the works council: just decent work for decent jobs. And yes, I have a responsibility to look at whether the laws and regulations also fulfil that responsibility, to ensure a level playing field, to properly implement this and to ensure that the law is properly implemented by municipalities and by social partners when it comes to their own working conditions. That almost automatically brings us...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u3	Mr President, I would really like to explain to the people who are following this debate why we are sitting. That's because we haven't had so many interruptions. There's a lot of bullshit being used by the Secretary of State, but I'm saving my interruptions on other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u4	I have not heard a question from Mrs Leijten, to which I must reply, Mr President. In line with TSN, there is, of course, the discussion about the context. How do we deal with, on the one hand, the need and desire of this Chamber to give municipalities as much freedom of policy as possible to shape the full support of people without taking a risk-regulation reflex from The Hague? That is a little balancing, because on the one hand we want to give the municipalities a lot of freedom. A number of motions have even been adopted, which I very much support, which should enable the municipalities to implement this integrated policy, not only in the area of the WMO but also in the area of the Participation Act and the Youth Act. At the same time, we must ensure that the principles of the law are respected, that municipalities are called upon if necessary and that we can intervene if we feel that it is not done in accordance with the law. This almost automatically brings me to the judgment of the Central Appeals Board. I said yesterday that I am pleased with that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u5	This is a point of order, Mr President, otherwise I will lose one of my two interruptions. Was this the complete story about TSN's bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u6	As far as TSN is concerned, but not as far as the rulings of the General Board of Appeal and the further direction are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u7	...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u8	A large number of questions have been asked about the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal, which, of course, to some extent touch upon this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u9	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. 'Cause if this was the whole block of "Rates and Bankruptcy..." No, the Secretary of State says. So the block "Prices and Code Responsible Market Behavior" is still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u10	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u11	Well, let's go. Then I shall sit down again, Mr President, to see what else is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u12	Relax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u13	Indeed, if we listen to each other more, we will have a good debate together on how we can assess the situation and look to the future. A number of political groups have asked questions about the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal. I said yesterday that I am pleased with that statement. Because, in all the discussions we have had with each other on the Wmo and on what policy freedom municipalities should have, was a very large part of the Chamber not of the opinion that the closer organisation of home support and taking more account of personal circumstances is the crucial element in the Wmo? We would offer customization and it is necessary for that customization to take account of those personal circumstances. The municipalities took charge of the implementation of the law. During the 2015 transition year, they had to take incredibly many things into account, for example the desire to continue to provide continuity of care, but also the desire to carry out innovation and deliver more customization. How'd that go? Since the introduction of the law, I have regularly informed the aldermen about judgments and case law that were under way in the course of the transition year. The first example is the ruling on Dantumadeel that the municipality had to provide for transitional rights and conduct careful investigation. Following that ruling, I informed the municipalities and many municipalities have adapted their policies and taken further steps. After that, several judgments were followed, e.g. those of the Gelderland court. He said maid care and cleaning is under the law. I've informed the aldermen all about that. Next, the court in Breda agreed with the municipality of Oosterhout in January 2016. As a result, the situation arose that one court, the Gelderland court, said it was part of it while another court, namely the one in Breda, said it was not. The Central Board of Appeal has now made the final decision. I'm happy about that. The Central Board of Appeal states that no point of reference has been found, not even with the legislator, that domestic aid would not be part of the new law. That seems to me to be an extremely important statement which leaves nothing to be desired in terms of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u14	In the new Wmo, Article 4 has expired, the article that in the old Wmo described what municipalities had to do. Since Article 4 has expired, many municipalities have seen this as an opportunity to drop household care. Can the Secretary of State follow that reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u15	Perhaps it would be a good idea to remind Mrs Leijten of why we have decided to rephrase this. If we want municipalities to make much more and different arrangements and take action, we must not say what three measures are being taken by the Empire. I am referring to domestic aid, daily spending and guidance. Then we must give the municipalities the opportunity to offer other forms of care and support in addition to these three forms. In the fight against loneliness, the municipalities will come to other interventions as under the old law. That was done very carefully at the time. We did not say to the congregations: these are the three provisions we give you. We just gave them the width and the space. Insofar as there would still be discussion as to whether the household aid is part of this, we now have a ruling from the highest court stating that there is no indication that there is a different view in the Wmo 2015 than in the Wmo 2007. How clear do you want it to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u16	The uncertainty is created by one person, and it is standing there. That's the Secretary of State. He got an article out of the law. That's why all the municipalities thought: we get 40% less money so we're gonna cancel. That ambiguity was not removed by him, even after parliamentary questions from the SP and many other groups in the Chamber. He did not intervene when congregations said, "If it has fallen, we shall let it fall completely. No, he sent people to the judge. And now he is pleased that the judge has interpreted his law, which he himself has amended. I really think that's a little ball-ball. It makes me sick. It led to two municipalities, Schagen and Hollands Kroon, on 1 May. We've said we're gonna let it go. And what does the Secretary of State do? Nothing. He's pleased with a judge's ruling interpreting his law that he himself amended. He's not doing anything in Schagen and Hollands Kroon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u17	Mrs Leijten has just said that all the municipalities have said: we are going to delete the domestic aid. That's just not true, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u18	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u19	I just heard you say that. Some municipalities have said that they were going to shape it in a different way; a way in which I had doubts, and I have also informed the congregations. That has led to a number of trials. One court said it could be done, and the other court said it couldn't be done. That is also the case law in the Netherlands; that happens. It also happens that municipalities sometimes have a slightly different view of the application of the law than the Empire. That's okay, too. At the same time, I have said once again that, in my view, domestic aid is simply a matter of law and I have referred to a number of judgments. I have even written in a letter to the Chamber that if a ruling were to be made that domestic aid did not belong to it, we would have to change the law on that point. That's not necessary, because the Supreme Court has now said it's just a part of it. There is no indication whatsoever that, according to the legislator's intention, domestic aid is not part of this. I can assume that Mrs Leijten is also pleased with this statement, let us confine it to the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u20	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u21	I see this statement as a tap on the Secretary of State's nose. We already knew on the eve of the entry into force of the law that there would be lawsuits. We asked the Chamber: we do not allow the elderly to go to court. Then the Secretary of State said, "If you have to, you have to." This did not happen with the old Wmo, because it clearly stated that this is a task of the municipalities. It'll happen in the new Wmo. That's not a weather phenomenon, that's because Van Rijn changed the law. Now that there's a good verdict, which shouldn't have been needed, I'm telling the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State must take the next step. In other words, he revived Article 4 of the old Wmo, which he dropped in the transition to the new Wmo. Otherwise there will be municipalities like Schagen and Hollands Kroon and we will all say that we believe that it is not good, but we are abandoning the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u22	In the meantime, the municipality of Schagen has indicated that it must amend its decision in the light of this ruling. The municipality of Hollands Kroon has also announced that it will discuss the consequences of this ruling. Both lectures will meet on Tuesday and the Chamber will be sure to follow this very closely. More importantly, if the Empire decentralises a task with a number of assignments to the municipalities, the municipalities that will fill in in different ways. For this there are many different forms, for example a general provision with customisation if necessary. The judge said that you can, but then you have to be able to prove that this has been done carefully. You can't be satisfied with a standard appointment. That seems to me to be a wise statement. There are municipalities that have decided that domestic aid is limited to jargon and that domestic aid II is fully provided. The judge warned against this, because in such cases the municipality must also ensure that tailor-made work is done; the people must not be denied tailor-made work. Both in terms of: is domestic aid included, yes or no, and in terms of the application of the provision, the judge has said that it is part of it and that if it is applied, it must be done carefully on the basis of consultation with the citizens. I just think that's very good. I can show with various letters that I have once again informed both the Chamber and the aldermen. This may be considered differently, there have also been legal proceedings and sometimes local judges have ruled differently. We must also respect that, but now there is a statement from the Central Appeals Council, and that seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u23	The Central Appeals Council has made a clear statement, which is ready to go. We have had several debates on this subject in which we have asked the Secretary of State to prevent people from going to court. I think we are all pleased that there is now a ruling. However, the question to the Secretary of State is: how to proceed? I believe that, after this statement, it should no longer be possible for municipalities to think: we do not offer customization, we do not carry out proper research, such a kitchen table is nothing. I think it's important to look to the future. What will the Secretary of State do now? I have said my contribution that I believe that the Secretary of State should take action if municipalities break the law, which has become even clearer after this ruling. I like to get a reflection on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u24	The short answer to that remark is: yes, of course. I shall be abounding to the congregations, because I assume they are following this ruling closely and draw attention to the consequences of this ruling. I will remind the municipalities to which the ruling refers specifically. That could even be referred to as the first sport of the escalation ladder: a ruling has been made, congregation you stick to the law and you want to inform me if that will be the case. If a municipality does not wish to do so or otherwise takes measures contrary to these statements, then indeed the escalation ladder, which will also be applied by me, will apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u25	I'm glad the Secretary of State actually indicates that sending a letter is the start of the escalation ladder. If there is still a deviation, this could lead to further sanctions. I think that's important. For example, older people and others using domestic help no longer have to go to court. That is the purpose of all of us. In practice, however, you can see that the kitchen table conversations are sometimes really of a lousy quality. Older people often do not dare to indicate that they need more help. In such a kitchen table conversation there is often no request, which results in people getting too little domestic help. What can we do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u26	A few things. Firstly, we are working with municipalities to give real impetus to the quality of the kitchen table discussions. I very much agree with Mrs Bergkamp. The administration of the municipality is essential in the kitchen table discussions. We should not go to the large-basin society, where you can only get care if you have a big mouth and you don't when you're confused or you're not used to it. Therefore, municipalities should also provide customer support, ensure that the caregiver can be there and ensure that they can have good conversations themselves. By the way, the UNG very much agrees with that. Together with the VNG we are working on getting this even better with all kinds of training and training. Once again, I very much agree with Mrs Bergkamp. If you want to deliver customization, the essence is that this is done on the basis of good conversations, by people who can conduct those conversations with life wisdom and empathy. If necessary, they must also support the client and the caregiver in order to be able to have those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u27	The Secretary of State mentioned the escalation ladder, which eventually resulted in giving a clue to a municipality. I hope it doesn't come to that, but it will require the Secretary of State to be more precise today. In the letter he sent this morning, he writes that the judge has said that there must be an independent inquiry into customization. Is that also the content of the letter that the Secretary of State is going to send to the municipalities? That is far too thin, as far as I am concerned. There is much more in that statement, namely that you cannot suffice to say to someone that he gets a clean and liveable house. Namely, that you cannot let the care institution that is eventually going to provide the care determine how many hours of care it is. Namely, that you write down exactly what someone is entitled to. And last but not least, before I forget that point: that you don't provide household care when you refer someone to a cleaning company. Is the Secretary of State going to write down all these judgments exactly and ask municipalities to change their policies? Otherwise, given the high discounts, municipalities might be forced to organise it differently. People have to go back to court. We all agree on this, and I have heard the Secretary of State say this: we do not want to have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u28	Not only will all these statements go to the municipalities; they are already properly written down and will all go to the municipalities as such. This means, among other things, that the municipality should look again at the decisions on clients that are still subject to appeal or appeal procedures and that are not in line with the Central Appeals Board. Clients who have been rejected on the basis of previous decisions must be informed by the municipalities that the policy has changed. They will have to make their changed policies public, including in their congregation. So that's what I'll do. I am also counting on this discussion to take place in the city council. Of course, all municipal councils have the primary task of checking the College of B and W if it would not want to follow these statements, which is not the intention of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u29	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. In doing so, a letter from the Secretary of State helps enormously, in which he once clearly explains what can and cannot be done. So I would just like to say a full yes to the question I have just asked. I'd like to put another case to the Secretary of State right away. The municipality of Utrecht is one of the municipalities on which the Central Board of Appeal has said: you cannot put everyone at an hour and a half. This municipality has now sent a letter in which it gives everyone an hour and a half per week by default. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this is not the tailor-made approach that we all find necessary in the context of the WMO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u30	That decision of the municipality of Utrecht was taken before the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal. It means that that ruling of the Central Board of Appeal should also be a reason for the municipality of Utrecht to change the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u31	Is the Secretary of State going to check that out and inform us about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u32	I have already told you that I will inform all the municipalities about the statements made by the Central Board of Appeal and that I will draw the attention of the municipalities in particular to those statements. This will then be provided with a letter from my side, in which I will indeed express exactly what Mrs Keijzer wants, namely what the consequences of these statements are for the policy of the municipalities. Of course I am very willing to inform the Chamber of that letter. I would then like to turn to a number of points relating to the tariff debate. On the one hand, we want to offer the municipalities as much freedom of policy as possible to ensure that they are able to buy in good care. We discussed earlier the question of what should be the balance between municipal policy freedom on the one hand and a real cost on the other. That real cost cannot be determined nationally because that cost varies from institution to institution. What we do not want is that the procurement process leads to such a lower pricing that you are not, as it were, able to handle the normal cost elements, such as a collective agreement and a normal business operation, or that you only have to realize your business operations on the basis of people who have just been hired. So we do not want to intervene in the management of the healthcare providers. We also do not want to intervene in the choices that municipalities can make. We do want a purchase to take place in such a way that it can take place on the basis of a real price. That's also in the Code of Responsible Market Behavior. We are also in the process of translating this into an AMvB in which, as far as I am concerned, we will also find the elements of the real cost that are determined by the municipality and the city council. Unlike Mrs Keijzer's assumption in the debate, this does not stop. I intend to bring that AMvB into proceedings very quickly and I hope that it can be put before the Chamber in June. It can therefore assess whether this AMvB meets all the requirements that exist about the rates. A number of Members have asked about the maintenance of working conditions. We've discussed it before. The tricky thing about this subject is that it is not possible to cut it with scissors, because different situations are conceivable. There are, however, a number of safeguards in the laws and regulations. That's how we have safeguards in the Civil Code. The Business Transfer Act regulates this in the area of the maintenance of working conditions in the event of the takeover of the staff. The WMO contains the obligation of municipalities to ensure that, if the work is taken over, as many staff as possible will be taken over. Furthermore, I mention the Work and Security Act: where there is subsequent employership, the transition takes place while maintaining working conditions. In addition, there are provisions in the relevant collective agreements in which collective bargaining parties have agreed on what should happen if the case is taken over. At the time, we said in the debate that it would not be good to regulate once and for all, as far as possible, that new providers should take over all employees with the same working conditions. In some cases it would not be in the interests of the staff either. In a situation of bankruptcy, you will probably not find any provider willing to negotiate takeover agreements if this leads to such a cost structure that such a provider will get into trouble. You actually get more bankruptcies, which can be at the expense of employment. That is why we agreed at the time to leave that commitment at the College of B and W, ensuring that when there is a transition from work, as much as possible is looked at in consultation with the healthcare providers. I am talking about care continuity, maintaining the couples as much as possible and, it may be, maintaining the working conditions as much as possible. I believe that this is also in line with the motion tabled by Mr Van Dijk on this point and, in my view, by GroenLinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u33	The SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u34	Sorry, the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u35	We did indeed have that debate at the time when we discussed the WMO, but at the same time we said that we do not think it would be desirable to then create situations in which people can choose between less pay or less dismissal. We can now see that, in practice, it does lead to these kinds of situations. That is why I would like to say: should we not lay down in the law that people should be taken over while maintaining their working conditions? We do the same for other sectors. I often mention the example of bus drivers. Why doesn't that happen for home carers and bus drivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u36	Because there is a difference. With a transition from one bus company to another, nothing changes in the package of services. Nothing changes about the clientele either. And the clients can't choose either. This means that everyone must continue to use the same facility. I am going to put it simply: then, as it were, only the colour of the bus changes. When there is a transition from one provider to another, different situations may arise. A contract may have been concluded stating what is being done with the take-over of personnel. For example, this could have been agreed in the collective agreement. Staff may go to different providers. It may be that clients can indicate whether or not they want to keep their caregiver. This situation is therefore quite different from one case to another. Mrs Voortman suggested that a new provider should always take over everyone with the same conditions of employment in the event of bankruptcy. Suppose there is a provider with a very expensive overhead and if one is forced to take that very expensive overhead when taking over work, then no provider will be prepared to do so. This would be at the expense of employment. That doesn't really help people. What we need to do now, and we have tried to do so, is to ensure that the person purchasing care and consulting with the providers also takes into account the continuity of care, the maintenance of employment and the savings of working conditions as much as possible. I can very well imagine that it is incredibly acidic, horrible and worthless if someone who keeps his job does not get into the right scale. That's really annoying. I imagine people are angry, very sad and disappointed about that, too. Sometimes there is a situation where the maintenance of employment can lead to not everyone getting the exact working conditions that they had in the past. That is the balance between maintaining employment and maintaining working conditions. Those two can't always go together. I believe that setting up an obligation to maintain working conditions in the event of bankruptcy will lead to the absence of a willingness to take over staff in advance in the event of such bankruptcies. In the end, people are worse off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u37	I'm not talking about overhead here. I'm talking about people who need care and people who work in care. I'm talking about people who say they've fallen 15% in pay. You can't take that off with "that's acid"? That couldn't have been the intention of the law, could it? I think it is very logical that we admit that this was not the intention of the law and that we are going to do something about it to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u38	We don't want any of that. Mrs Voortman asked the question: should you not arrange that, in the event of bankruptcy, all staff must always be taken over while maintaining working conditions? However, that is different in the case of bankruptcy, because then there is resignation and the re-enlistment of people. You can't arrange for one-on-one staff to be taken over. And if you wanted to settle it, there wouldn't be a lot of providers willing to do that. I believe that the method we have now, which ensures continuity of care and the maintenance of couples as far as possible and attempts are being made to keep working conditions as intact as possible, is the best result. I very much agree with everyone that you only get sad and angry at the moment you say: now I can keep my job, but I go backwards in pay. That's just very sad and worthless. I agree. In some cases, it is fortunate that someone keeps his job. But I can imagine you're just gonna get mad about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u39	I think it's great that we have a Secretary of State who can imagine a lot, but I'd rather have a Secretary of State who does something too. Now let's get this by the head. There are two municipalities in this country that said on 1 May that they no longer provide domestic care. That's Schagen and Hollands Kroon. All the employees were fired there. It is not that the Secretary of State does not know that, because they have taken action up to The Hague. The employees are fired by now. Are they being rehired in accordance with the old conditions? The old work is fully restored by the ruling of the Central Appeals Board. The indication needs to be resurrected. Does the Secretary of State now insist that all those ladies look back at their work and their decent working conditions or are they the child of the account because the Secretary of State has looked away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u40	If there is a bankruptcy, you must consult with a new provider about taking over the work. It also deals with the question of whether he can possibly take over people and the conditions of employment. That therefore depends on the situation with the new provider. In a number of cases you can see that work has not been taken over while maintaining staff, but that the work is done by the employees of the new institution. You can do that, too. It's very different from one situation to another. Sometimes even contractual arrangements are made that in the event of bankruptcy the work automatically passes to the second provider. You can't say that in general. However, in the case of TSN, continuity of care has been ensured. In addition, it has been ensured that people can opt for the same torque service as much as possible. When negotiating with new providers, you should try to ensure that this can meet the same working conditions as far as possible. This has been achieved in a large number of cases, but not in all cases. I find that very sad too, but it just doesn't work out in all cases. Several providers with their own staff also have a role in the takeover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u41	This is an answer to a question I did not ask. In Schagen and in Hollands Kroon there have been redundancies because the municipality no longer did the work. Now, nineteen days after this decision, the indications are resurrected because of the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal, but the people are on the street. The Secretary of State may find this very regrettable, but he did not stop those municipalities from doing so. What's gonna do about it? How does he ensure that these municipalities take back the people who are on the streets in accordance with the old working conditions? Work's back. There's no new assignment. There's no bankruptcy. What will the Secretary of State do now? If the Secretary of State has so much sense of it and finds it so annoying, he'll set it on fire in Schagen and in Holland's Crown.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u42	I don't want to repeat myself, but this is another case. There is a bankruptcy of TSN which means that you have to negotiate with new providers whether staff can be taken over and, if so, on what terms. The case referred to by Mrs Leijten concerns Schagen's policy on domestic aid. That may need to be adjusted now. I do not know whether this will lead to additional employment. Maybe existing providers are going to deliver more or other providers will be called in. That could mean something to the people who don't have a job anymore. I sincerely hope so, but we cannot do that at the central level. We can ensure that as much work as possible is preserved. As far as I am concerned, if there is work to be added, the people who lost their jobs must be primarily looked at. That makes sense to me, too. With the aldermen I am speaking, I do not see the attitude of 'let it all go', as Mrs Leijten also assumes. I come across very responsible aldermen who are doing their utmost to ensure continuity, to maintain the couples and, if possible, to maintain working conditions. I haven't met an alderman who didn't want to. However, it means that it must be invented from one situation to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u43	Mrs Leijten, final and brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u44	A third of the aldermen have chosen to maintain the couples and guarantee the conditions of employment. However, I did not ask a question about TSN. The Secretary of State is apparently so pre-programmed that he can only answer questions about TSN. I asked him about the situation in those two municipalities. He actually thinks that these municipalities have policies that he doesn't want. He feels supported by the judge, but the job is gone and the people are fired. Is the Secretary of State going to make sure this is taken care of again? The Secretary of State's conclusion is actually: "No, I don't. I'll explain how the law works. If it works, it's because of my good law. If the law doesn't work, we're lucky to have a judge who interprets him well. If there's any layoffs, I'm really sorry, and that's it. Oh, no, I've also made my austerity assignment." What a failure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u45	It is a pity that you feel that way, Mrs Leijten. We have, of course, had this debate on domestic aid many times before. Let us also look at the future, in which we will face an increasing demand for care. We are faced with a doubling of the number of older people, who are likely to be vulnerable to a certain extent, and who need care and support in the home situation. Then I do not think it is unreasonable that we should look at which people could take it or pay it for themselves and which people are unable to do so. That indeed leads us to try to do it with less money, to see if we can keep it in the future as we have it now. That is also a really reasonable goal, which, as far as I am concerned, is aimed at maintaining what we have achieved in the Netherlands, namely that we offer support in the home situation, which we need to do much more in the future, in the future. This is also in the interest of the quality of care in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u46	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u47	No. I've heard you three times, Mrs. Leijten. The Secretary of State is going to go on and perhaps get into finalizing spheres. I've really given you the floor three times. Your interruption was in threes, and we're actually doing it in half, hence. The Secretary of State continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u48	Mrs Leijten and Mrs Agema have said that I am only paraphrasing the fact that the SCP study clearly shows that people have no network at all and that the assumptions about the reforms are not correct. I have a different picture of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u49	The Secretary of State paraphrases. That's what he's been doing for the second time now. The first time he said that I said that all the municipalities have abolished household care. Fortunately, they didn't all do that, but they did a lot and the Secretary of State didn't do anything about it. I didn't say anyone had a network. I said that the Secretary of State had no proof of his policy and that he put everyone who warned of the consequences of his policy away as scarers, but that all the time he scared everyone with the remark that it would be too expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u50	Very good. That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u51	I really believe that I have heard Mrs Leijten and Mrs Agema say that the SCP report now shows that the assumptions about self-reliance were not correct and that this would make a number of assumptions behind the policy wrong. I have heard you say that, Mrs Leijten. Now let's see what the SCP report says. That says that people who use the Wmo do not have that network in many cases. That's what the Wmo's for! In previous reports, the SCP says that the older one does not exist, that we are dealing with about 25% of the vulnerable elderly, that about 25% of the elderly are very vital and that in between there is a very large group that is sometimes vulnerable and sometimes not or sometimes becomes vulnerable. The Wmo, with that customization for the support at home, is precisely aimed at seeing which people can receive it themselves or pay for it themselves, so that we, even for the longer term, have enough facilities and resources to maintain a good supply for people who do not have a network, who are very vulnerable and who are not self-reliant in the Netherlands. That's what we all want, at least I do. This means that, on the basis of the SCP's conclusion that the people who use the WMO are in many cases vulnerable and do not have a network, it is perhaps a bit much to ask for to note that the law does what it is intended to do. Isn't that why we made the Wmo? Isn't that why we want to go to customization? Isn't that why we're looking at personal circumstances? If we did not do that, we would be making the mistake of providing the same care for everyone regardless of the personal vulnerability. Then we'd really be pulling on the wrong side of the rope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u52	However, I would like to talk about the rates. Why are we standing here talking about bankruptcy of health care institutions? That's because they pay below cost. The Secretary of State just said, "We've learned from that." Did we learn from that? Apeldoorn, Groesbeek and Heumen are three municipalities that, according to my information, pay even under the €20 for the HH1, the simple household help. The Secretary of State says he's working on general rules, but they start on 1 January 2017. What does the Secretary of State mean in all these situations? Does the Secretary of State say we've learned? And does he say that there is no longer a contract below cost and that therefore no health care institutions are going bankrupt and no more people are being fired?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u53	We've talked about this before. Mrs Keijzer keeps saying: you shouldn't buy under "cost." The point is that "that cost" may vary from one institution to another. To take the most exciting example, with excuse for the fact that I quote TSN again: with working conditions scale 15, the cost of TSN was €27 and of Family help €23. That's the cost of that institution. There is another cost because one was the overhead larger and there were many more management layers. With the other there were no management layers, there was much less overhead and there was much more emphasis on the provision of care. So the cost is lower. What I want is for municipalities, using the AMvB, as an additional tool, to be able to define for their own environment what real cost elements are, so that the minimum in which they can regulate that procurement can be determined by each municipality. If you didn't, municipalities would be in a position to go through a tendering procedure, with all the bells and bells. If there is someone who offers €3 below the cost price, the municipality is obliged to accept it. With the AMvB in hand, I aim to give the municipality an instrument, in order to ensure that a real cost is set with the city council, based on a number of cost elements. I have good hope that I will be able to put that AMvB in the front page in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u54	The Secretary of State uses a lot of words. He talks about a cost of €27 at TSN and €23 at Familiezorg/Buurtzorg. In the Responsible Market Behaviour Home Support Code, which this State Secretary has also signed, this €27 is the average cost that fits function scale 5. It is not without reason that I mention a number of municipalities that are even below the €20. The Responsible Market Behaviour Code signed by this State Secretary precisely calculates with all kinds of bandwidths how a cost price is reasonably achieved. If the Secretary of State maintains this line, he will immediately send a General Measure of Board to the Chamber which is a completely empty shell. Because in what way is he going to check his law, Article 2.6.6, which states that if you contract, you have to do so in accordance with salaries, collective agreements and working conditions? How is he ever gonna check to see if it actually happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u55	Now Mrs Keijzer is confusing things: contracting in accordance with collective agreements and working conditions. That's just what the law says, but that doesn't mean anything about the cost. A collective agreement consists of several scales, sometimes high and sometimes low. Depending on your staff, the cost per institution is different. We want municipalities to have an instrument in their hands, not just to say: the lowest bidder wins. That will be the tenderer who has nothing to do with permanent jobs and who only uses the collective agreement for someone who entered yesterday. He won't work with firm forces who've been working for him for a long time. With this instrument you can ensure that institutions that have permanent staff who did not arrive yesterday and who do not all have flex contracts are eligible for such a tender and that not only the lowest price wins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u56	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u57	This is my second interruption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u58	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I recommend that everyone who sits here should google the Code of Responsible Market Behavior at home. If you read it, you can see that the amounts I'm calling now are 22.46 versus 27€, average amounts, calculated after all kinds of different parts of the cost price have been taken into account. There are municipalities that pay €20. By the way, it is good to know that the people working in home care receive between €9 and €13. It's a good thing we all realize that, because you're talking about salaries. The Secretary of State now says: I am doing well, I am going to prevent bankruptcy because I am sending a General Measure of Board to the Chamber to ensure that there is a reasonable contract. I call that a "fair economy" myself. However, the Secretary of State is not prepared to then examine what rates are actually agreed in practice and whether these rates correspond to those average amounts. If you say one thing, but you don't investigate the other, you don't have anything, do you? I'm asking a very practical question. If €20 per hour is paid to a health care institution, can such an institution then come out in the longer term? Or is that going to lead to bankruptcy? Let me make it this concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u60	With permission, I really don't understand any of this. Bankruptcies can have very different causes. For example, bankruptcy can be caused by a much too large overhead or a much too expensive building. Bankruptcy doesn't have to have anything to do with the staff's salary. In fact, these things can even affect the staff so much that it affects them. Here's what we want. Suppose, we could make an agreement with an AMvB that municipalities have the possibility to set a real cost based on a number of cost elements derived from that Market Behaviour Code. In this way, there will be some kind of soil in the market. In this situation, it is said that this is the real cost. So you stop the arrival of cowboys in the market saying: what do I have to do with it, I just choose the lowest price and I see. That is precisely what we are preventing from doing. So I think Mrs Keijzer should be happy about that. But perhaps it is best to test Mrs Keijzer's happiness at the time that the hanging procedure starts. It will then be able to see whether the AMvB, which is partly based on that Code of Conduct responsible for the market, offers exactly what I think we are both aiming for, namely a real price for decent working conditions. It is true that it is necessary to place a kind of soil on the market, which must be determined by the municipality. This should prevent the arrival of cowboys and facilitate decent working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u61	May I reply with one more sentence, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u62	One short sentence, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u63	In the end, it is important to look at what happens in practice. As long as the Secretary of State doesn't want to look at that, that rule may be good, but eventually you've got nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u64	Clear. Mrs Agema has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just got a tap from the Secretary of State. Maybe he already missed me on the interrupting microphone. It was about the dogma of self-reliance, one of the basic principles of that Wmo 2015. It is also one of the basic principles by which the Secretary of State has already cut back 280 million on domestic aid alone this year; we must not forget that. My question is: is the Secretary of State sticking to that tap he just handed out? Can he repeat it, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u66	I never intend to hand out any tap. I try to stick to the facts and use the right arguments. Here's what I said. The SCP writes that people who use a provision of the Wmo are relatively vulnerable and often do not have a social network. I said: that's right, because with this Wmo we aim to offer tailor-made work, especially for those who are not self-reliant. In her contribution, Mrs Bergkamp said: we must, of course, arrange it in the Netherlands in such a way that there is always help and support for people who have no network and no support, and who are not self-reliant. The Wmo aims to be able to deliver customized work. If there's no help and support, we need to arrange for it to come. However, if people can take care of the problems themselves, it is reasonable to ask to what extent this can be done. There is still a lot of water to flow through the Rhine, and I'm sure it's not all going well yet. The point of this approach is a very important one. However, I believe that it is an essential step to ensure that care is closer to the people and that we take more account of their personal circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u67	Do you know what the essence of that report from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau is? This is not about all those people who already care, and who take it away from them. No, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau pierced the next dogma yesterday. 38% of the people with three or more problems that they cannot solve themselves have had no help in these problems. I'd like to give that to the Secretary of State. So it is not about those who lose their care, but about those who have not had that care at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u68	I'm gonna give it a try. Maybe we share the following view. Let's take a look at the big picture of decentralisation. With Mrs Agema, I am concerned about the following. If we want to do more customization in the home situation, it's not just about the people who report for the Wmo and whether or not they get in touch with the municipality and are offered a facility. It is true that it is people who are not so empowered to apply for that provision, who are not self-reliant and for whom the municipality has an active duty to support and trace them much more than ever. An older man said to me a while back: I was 80 years old and someone from the municipality came by to ask me if I have any reason to get support. I hadn't seen that before. A municipality that is pre-emptive, actively tries to track people down and investigates whether there are still vulnerable elderly people who are not at all in the picture but need support, I find a good municipality. That is the policy we are pursuing. As far as I am concerned, the Wmo is going to develop in such a way that a provision is not only provided on request, which is of course also good, but that the municipality is also actively tracking down those people who are lonely or need help, but do not ask for it. I'd love that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u69	It is very handsome that the Secretary of State is turning it around again, very keenly thought, but in fact this year he is cutting back EUR 280 million on domestic aid, while 40% of the old people say she hasn't even got it. This cut is going to be hundreds of millions. It amounts to EUR 800 million in domestic aid. The people who are not now in the picture do not form the category that the Secretary of State's law is suddenly going to track down. These are people who are not in the picture and do not stay in the picture. The municipalities are not going to track these people down, because they already have 280 million less to spend this year, and that amount is hugely increased by this Secretary of State. That is why I said: the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau pierced the dogmas of the Secretary of State yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u70	I disagree with Mrs. Agema. We have also said to each other that the way in which we would like to organise support at home should not be based on an indication far away, which is supposedly good for everyone but does not take into account personal circumstances and personal possibilities. By doubling the number of elderly people in the Netherlands, we have to take into account that we need to provide much more help and support, including in the home situation. It is then very reasonable to consider whether we can ask people who can take care of themselves or pay for it, and to ask those who cannot do so, who are not self-reliant, to provide support and help. That is a good way to provide good support and help towards the future: people who can do it themselves, we ask them to do it and people who can't do it, we offer help and support. This is a forward-looking policy which makes it better possible to deliver more customization than we have been used to so far. It is true that the cover still has to take place incredibly. The municipalities have been given many tasks. We have asked the municipalities in the first year to ensure continuity of care. The innovation that needs to be made seems to me to be a good starting point: taking more account of personal circumstances, asking people to provide help and support themselves where they can and help them where they can't. I now come to a few specific questions that have been asked, apart from the point of the SCP investigation. Mrs Leijten asked how the Secretary of State deals with new bankruptcies. TSN is a special case in itself, because it was a national provider in many municipalities. We needed direction and coordination, which we were able to offer together with the VNG and the curators. This does not mean that if there were other bankruptcies, we would not interfere. These are often local and regional. I always care about continuity of care and support. This has been incorporated into the law and we will adhere to congregations. It's not an abstract concept. Where necessary, it is an active attitude aimed at maintaining the care where necessary in the interests of clients and patients. I repeat: I did not speak to an alderman, with all the difficulties that sometimes exist, who did not include this as a guiding principle in the policy. I would once again like to congratulate all the aldermen who have brought this about. Mrs Leijten asked whether the budgets of the municipalities should not be earmarked. I have a few comments to make. One. It's rather early to make a judgment already. I believe it was 139 out of 390 municipalities. This gives an initial picture of a transition year in which a lot of transitional measures had to be taken and there was not yet a clear picture of how it would go. Two. We are moving from a historical cost model to an objective cost model in which the budgets will hopefully be even better tailored to the need for care in a municipality. Three. On the contrary, Mr Van Dijk pointed out that we have deliberately created a budget that has been missed. We have said that municipalities should also have the opportunity not to reason from the same pots as the Empire, but to make an integral policy. In the discussion on ear tags at the time, the Court pointed out that it resulted in so much additional accountability burden that this would not be good for the care euros. I assume that municipalities are highly motivated to ensure that good care and support is provided in the future. We should not draw too far-reaching conclusions on the basis of a signal regarding a limited part of the total decentralisation budget. The CDA has asked whether there has not been too rapid decentralisation. With regard to the first steps on decentralisation and reform, much has been done. I would like to point that out. A healthcare agreement 2013 has been concluded with a large number of mitigations. A total of 100 million has been allocated to the sector plans. A total of 270 million has been allocated to the household aid scheme. We just mentioned the Code of Responsible Market Behaviour and the shared vision of the future of home care: the package of 4 December with the municipalities. Sectoral plans have been made, together with Social Affairs, to ensure that we can handle employment developments a little bit. It seems to me that at some point you naturally cross over and shape the decentralisation and thereby make the municipalities responsible. I would point out that with both the transitional measures taken and the additional budgets made available, there has been de facto no shock-by-step transition, but a gradual change, especially in the transitional year 2015. There is enough reason, moreover, not to pass our conclusions on that year of transition. I believe that Mrs Keijzer's questions on progress on the AMvB have been answered. The same applies to the tariff limits that we want to build in under the same AMvB. Mrs Keijzer pointed out that CNV is working on a number of pilots in Berkelland. She asked: is the Secretary of State involved? I can see from her response that I'm misinterpreting her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u71	To be precise: the CNV is working on a number of pilots and I understand that also aldermen themselves, for example in Berkelland, are doing similar things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u72	Both with CNV and with Berkelland we have contact to find out how we can stimulate and also facilitate this. We are also doing this in order to learn from it: can this be rolled out further? The experiences that municipalities now gain, I will combine and make available to other municipalities together with the VNG. I think that Mrs Keijzer's questions about the consequences of the ruling and the letter to the municipalities have just been answered. The same applies to the questions raised by Mrs Voortman concerning the maintenance of working conditions and job retention. In addition, Mrs Voortman raised the question of how the household aid payment is not being used properly. I wouldn't put it that way myself. In the beginning, we have earmarked the supplement for a very specific purpose: to promote employment, if necessary, by increasing the demand for domestic aid, with which we could develop personal services, so to speak, in the Netherlands. There's a personal contribution to that. Gradually, the minimum own contribution has been reduced to €5 per hour. So it's no longer about €10 an hour. In the light of the agreements we made with the unions on 4 December, we agreed with the municipalities to further relax the conditions. This makes it easier for municipalities to look at the question of "what do we need in regular household help?" On the other hand, the question "how can we slowly but surely develop the market for personal services?'. In fact, we have further eased the freedom of use of domestic aid so that municipalities could make even more generous use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u73	Does the Secretary of State consider that the household aid allowance is effective and successful, knowing that 125 million 1,400 places of formation were created in 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u74	It's not as planned yet. With a limited part of the budget, I believe that 30% of the budget has been used up, 4 000 jobs have now been created. If 100% of the budget is used up, we might be close to the 12,000 jobs. I wouldn't let that go at the moment. I think it is important to have answered the questions of municipalities and aldermen. They indicated that they thought the household aid allowance was a good tool, but that they wanted to have more space during the transitional period not only to focus on household aid payments, people's contributions and the market for personal services. They said that they were also very busy shaping regular domestic aid, making other arrangements and moving towards the precise application of domestic aid in the long term. So I have good hope that the effectiveness of the instrument will be increased in the coming period by the freedom now provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u75	This means that for 1,400 FTEs €87,000 per FTE went to the municipality, but the Secretary of State does not think that is a problem. The ruling of the Central Board of Appeal also shows that it has become extremely messy and misty. You have the housekeeping as a tailor-made facility. You have the household help as a general provision. You've got the household help under the HHT, the household help allowance. Then there's the reference to cleaning companies. Does the Secretary of State not make it possible for municipalities to find out exactly what can and cannot be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u76	We give the municipalities relatively much freedom. We have agreed on this with the municipalities and the trade unions, because in the end we want to get a little rid of the old amenities stalls that mean "there is domestic aid," "there is daily spending" and "there is guidance." We say: shouldn't you even think about how home support should take shape and shouldn't you be creating new functions on that basis? For example, the trade union is considering the question: should we still have a collective agreement for the VVT and a collective agreement for other matters, or should we also look at the social domain, and should this also have consequences for collective agreements? In my view, this is a sensible balance to be struck between the two sides of industry. Local authorities also need to think about certain issues. There are municipalities that say: by respecting existing contacts, we have ensured continuity of care, but we want to consult with the providers to see if we should not create entirely different functions, such as home guidance and developing a wider range of services for people who want to stay at home. That seems very sensible to me. We need to give some space away from the old amenities and municipalities to ensure that they can develop new functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u77	The report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that the implementation of the Wmo is actually a black box and that it is therefore difficult for city council members to see what concerns it is and for whom. I have therefore asked what the Secretary of State will do to better organise the monitoring of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u78	When I read that, I set out what we are all measuring and monitoring around the execution of the Wmo. I predict that we will have another discussion with each other on whether we should get a little more coherence in all the measurements and measurement points we are about to get. We have the agreement on the evaluation. We've got the SCP monitor. We have the calculations from the Central Planning Bureau. We have the monitor of the VNG, which also deals with a number of issues in the social domain, and we have the Iv3 data that gives a numerical indication of how much has been spent in the social domain. I think we have ample insight into developments in the social domain. I also agree with Mrs Voortman that we want to keep an eye on this. We have agreed with the municipalities that we are now distributing all budgets on the basis of historical costs and that we are moving slowly towards the need model. Municipalities have a great interest in periodically looking at how the social domain develops: do shifts occur between the area of long-term care and the Wmo and between the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act? Municipalities and I have an interest in keeping a close eye on that. In the current situation, this is still complicated because it is a transition year and an old historical approach. That's all still growing. We're gonna have too many more than too few measuring points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u79	That just makes it more complicated. The city council members have already indicated that it is very difficult for them to control, but in the meantime it is constantly said here that the city council should do so. It seems logical to me that at this level we should ensure that city council members are able to do their job properly. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what responsibility he sees for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u80	I think that is a valid point. The question is whether the city council will be able to exercise proper democratic control over what is happening in the municipality. This is a very important point. I'm talking to the Department of the Interior to see how the whole social domain is developing. We have asked the Social Domain Transition Committee to shed light on this. We are now creating all kinds of measuring points to see what is happening, but ultimately it has to shift more to the instruments that the city council has to assess what the college's policy is and what its results are. So Mrs Voortman has a point. I am very willing to work together with the Ministry of the Interior to ensure that the provision of information to municipal councils gets much more hands and feet so that more democratic control can take place there. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Voortman asked how we are structuralally ensuring that we learn from the implementation of the Wmo and whether we are constantly improving it. The Chamber received my letter about the progress of the Wmo. I have mentioned a number of actions that need to be taken at this very point. The most important approach at the moment is that we are gradually seeing all kinds of implementation practices of the Wmo. Municipalities have to exchange them among themselves. Slowly but surely an implementation practice with best practices will grow. Now there is a thousand flowers blooming, and that is also part of this phase. I also think there will be a phase where it is clear what does, what doesn't and what might work. The VNG takes a very active stance in this regard. In the May progress report I gave a number of examples of this. Every quarter we bring results together and see if we can bring them further to the congregations. Mrs Bergkamp asked how many municipalities subscribe to the code and adhere to the principles. Since August 2015, 90 municipalities have subscribed to the code. This is an active attitude of these municipalities; it does not mean that other municipalities do not comply with the code. I want all municipalities to adhere to the code of responsible market behaviour and to have decent tariffs. That is one of the reasons why I am translating the code into national regulations with the AMvB we talked about. Mrs Bergkamp asked about the care cooperatives, as did Mrs Schut. I think this is a promising and very interesting development. With care cooperatives, without a lot of management above it, professionals are taking matters into their own hands, who, as it were, can offer a number of services to clients in their own direction. That's very interesting. Inventories show that the number of health cooperatives is growing sharply. I think that is a positive development. The initiators can set up a care cooperative through the notary. This is happening quite quickly, as long as the requirements of the Civil Code are met. A motion has indeed been adopted to further develop citizens' initiatives in the long-term care system. As part of the implementation of that motion, an inventory is now being made by Vilans and Movisie. It looks at the citizens' initiatives that provide care and services in the Wlz, the Health Insurance Act and the Wmo. On this basis, I would like to draw up an agenda with the municipalities to identify the bottlenecks that arise and which of them we need to resolve at national level and where an additional step by the municipalities is needed to welcome these initiatives. I will, of course, keep you informed about the progress of that investigation in the progress reports. Mrs Bergkamp asked about the danger that I paraphrase too much what I want with the alpha helpers. We're not gonna ban the alpha helpers. The use of alpha aids comes from a conscious and well-informed choice of the client and the care provider. In creating public funds by municipalities, however, regular work and decent working conditions must be chosen. So if there is total freedom of choice between both the client and the healthcare provider, we keep the alpha help intact via the pgb. However, if the municipality provides the facilities, we ask the municipality not to, because with public money you should create regular jobs. I expect that the proposal on alpha aid can be discussed with the partners in the very short term. It will then undoubtedly be discussed in your Chamber. Mrs Schut urged me that the statements of the Central Board of Appeal...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u81	Mrs Bergkamp would like to comment on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u82	I think my "block" is over now, but I do have some questions. So thank you for the opportunity for my second interruption. I have another question about working conditions and industrial relations. The Secretary of State states that the Code of Responsible Market Behaviour will soon be translated into a General Measure of Governance. In practice, however, this code is not already being complied with by all parties. We have discussed this with the CNV, which has set up a hotline, and we are getting signals that organisations are looking for the boundaries and edges of contracts. They want maximum flexibility and minimum security. Then you can start translating that code into a General Measure of Governance, but if it is not maintained already, there is a problem underneath it. Does the Secretary of State see this problem as well? How are we going to maintain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u83	I cannot judge and bring home the specific points made by Mrs Bergkamp in her speech at the moment. It is a good thing that these points are being pointed out. I also sometimes hear some of them, perhaps it is the same signals that municipalities make agreements on the acquisition of staff and working conditions and that the healthcare provider does not want to comply fully with these agreements. The city has to say: I made this appointment with you, so you have to stick to it. We need to keep a close eye on that. When municipalities agree on the acquisition of staff or on the conditions of employment, these agreements must, of course, be respected. I will contact the CNV to see if those signals give rise to further action. Mrs Schut has actually made the same point. How do we ensure that these statements by the Central Board of Appeal are translated? How do we ensure that they are not only notified, but that municipalities are also informed that they must comply and that measures are taken where necessary? I have already mentioned this in my answer to Mrs Keijzer's questions. I'll make sure there's a letter to the lectures. I will also make sure that this letter comes to the knowledge of the municipal councils. Then we can take the first step right away. I say this also in relation to Mrs Voortman's question. The city council must primarily supervise the implementation of the Wmo by the college. If municipalities do not change their policies, although this is indicated, I will, of course, take further measures, in accordance with the escalation ladder. I think I have answered her questions about domestic aid and the household aid allowance sufficiently. Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union asked what I am doing to improve cooperation between municipalities and insurers in practice, and to further stimulate innovation from, for example, citizens' initiatives and health associations, but also wider ones. Yesterday, I held administrative consultations with the VNG and with Health Insurance companies in the Netherlands in order to identify with each other the issues on which cooperation between municipalities and health insurance companies should be given further impetus. We have identified a number of themes, ranging from prevention 18-18+ to how we deal with the border debate. We are going to indicate where we stand, what cooperation is already going on and where grace should be helped. We will work that out with the insurers in the coming period. Both parties note that since the introduction of the WMO and the decentralisations there have been much more contacts between municipalities and insurers, not only at the administrative level, but also at the level of the workplace and the directors. In the Jongerius Council, the directors and purchasers of the insurers sit together with the social policy directors of the municipalities. These issues have also been raised. You can see that there are a lot of initiatives going on. It is also a bit in the phase in which a thousand flowers bloom. We have agreed administratively to follow that, to pick up the net and to invest it with agreements that may also need to be made at national level. I voted in favour of this. I share Mrs Dik-Faber's view that cooperation on this issue could be strengthened and improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u84	It's good to hear there's some administrative consultation going on. Work is being carried out at municipal level on the renewal of care and functions. The aldermen will work together with healthcare organisations to better serve the citizens. At local level, contact with health insurers is still very difficult. How do we ensure that the good will there is at the administrative level to make agreements is also translated into the local level? I'm getting signals from the local level about that. I believe that the administrative lines are short and that there are good conversations, but they really run into walls locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u85	I got those signals, too. As you can see, the developments there are positive. We should not think about all kinds of consultation at local level by nine insurers and 390 municipalities. It is important, however, to provide scope, sometimes in the financial sense, for the procurement policies of health insurers and municipalities, for general practitioners, district nurses and people in the social district team. We need very good agreements on the link between social policy and the insurance domain. There should be no administrative consultation circus, but they should assume their responsibilities so that there is room in the contract policy of healthcare buyers and in the arrangements with the care providers. I can hear those signals, too. It is an explicit point of attention. We will certainly take this with us when we work on these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u87	Mr. Chairman. The innovation funds are intended to give municipalities the room to improve the funds for the household aid allowance or to allocate it to the broad purpose of home support. They're there for everyone who has a good plan. The municipalities are free to spend them and to further shape or develop these new functions. One municipality does this by making an arrangement, the other by making a plan with the providers. In the reports that are regularly made on progress with the Wmo, I undertake to explicitly address the question of how that process is going to proceed. I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that the ombud function at local or regional level has or can have significant added value. It is not for nothing that several municipalities choose to do this. It is an accessible function to stay in conversation with the municipalities and to get the right support. It'll save time and money for the client and for the city. There is a handout from the Ministry of the Interior on how municipalities can organise this function. Activities are being undertaken together with client organisations and the VNG. I do agree with Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van Dijk that it is a local, municipal choice to organise an ombud function. I am prepared to share with the VNG the good experiences that have been gained in a number of places, because you can now see it growing slowly, once again, and to insist that the knowledge and skills in this area be brought to the attention of its members. Mr Van Dijk said that the new movement is very important for the next phase, to remove smaller suppliers, fewer burdens and obstacles. I agree. As you know, I am thinking about how we can tackle the administrative burden and remove barriers widely, not only in the context of the WMO, but also in the context of the Long-Term Care Act. I hope to present a letter to the Chamber before the summer recess, if that is possible in the coming month, setting out my plans for it. This will show how we are going to further remove the regulatory burden and the administrative burden. We must think very practically about scrapings, which we will have with professionals and supervisors. Measures can also be envisaged in the context of national regulation, which may contain obstacles that we need to bring to light. This means that I would like to inform the Chamber as soon as possible. I have good hope that Mr Van Dijk's question will be answered as to how we can develop it further. Mr Van Dijk's question on the Central Board of Appeal has already, I believe, been answered in a general way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u88	It is of course important to reduce administrative burdens, but my question was also about the new initiatives in this whole operation. For example, you saw that the Family Help Foundation wanted to take over contracts. A number of municipalities are afraid of this and wonder what can and what cannot be done. Enschede's been sued. The same applies to the initiative of the twelve home helpers in Apeldoorn, who themselves set up a cooperative. The municipality has said: boys, we immediately conclude a contract with them. However, there may also be municipalities that are wondering whether all this can be done and how complicated it is. So my question is not just about removing the existing administrative burden. In particular, I would like to ask how we can ensure that the initiatives we all welcome are given a place in the whole. Will the Secretary of State take a look at that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u89	Sure. I tried to indicate this earlier by pointing out the research that Vilans and Movisie are doing: what initiatives are there and what bottlenecks are there; what are the bottlenecks at national level and, above all, what can the bottlenecks be at local level? I am thinking here, for example, of bottlenecks in the buying-in of care. I want to use the results of this research to find out what obstacles the initiators themselves experience, how I can solve them at national level or why the municipalities have to solve them at local level. Perhaps on a number of points, too, I should lend a hand to the grace. Then I will answer Mr Van Dijk's question on procurement round 2017. As I said, I expect to be able to send the proposal on the AMvB to the Chamber by the end of this month. Then this can have a maximum effect on the new purchasing round. I also note that the discussion on the AMvB alone leads every municipality to think about what that will mean for next year's procurement. I come to Mr Krol's remarks. I think we have discussed enough what I will do to encourage municipalities to take note of the statements made by the Central Board of Appeal and what I will do to encourage municipalities to act accordingly. His question as to whether I am prepared to take active control and coordinate as a result of the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal is therefore a positive response. I will take a number of actions on that. So I will inform the Chamber about the letters I'm going to send at that point. Mr Krol specifically asked what is being done for those who no longer have a job because of the bankruptcy of TSN. First of all, of course, the regular instruments apply. In addition, the UWV ensures that people receive early benefits. For all the help, the UWV held information meetings. Employees are informed about this process and they can also be informed and advised by telephone. That's a customary service by the UWV. In addition, however, there are additional opportunities for a start to new work, to help people get to work. I refer to personal services, training vouchers and the bridge WW. On 15 April the UWV started a more personalised service. It will be further developed in the coming period. That is what we start with in long-term care. I am also talking to the CNV about the development of the plans aimed at additional efforts for care workers over 45 years of age who have become unemployed or threatened to become unemployed. In coordination with Social Affairs and the UWV we will examine how we can also guide older workers to work as effectively as possible and perhaps with some special attention. I have agreed to this with the CNV and expect to receive an application in the near future. I thought I'd answered all the questions at this stage as well as I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u90	I had asked why the Secretary of State did not carry out the motion to properly investigate the behaviour of the TSN summit prior to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u91	That's what we've been talking about. I've also answered parliamentary questions about it. I have indicated that the parties concerned are, as it were, the first move. Following the debate in the Chamber and the motion, I contacted FNV and CNV. They have informed me to look into their legal possibilities to see if this can still be discussed. By the way, I have also put the question to the curators. It is a regular part of a curator's work to find out how things could have gotten this far and whether they are based on behaviours that need to be addressed. These parties are primarily involved. I await the views of this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u92	I see that there is a need for a second term. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u93	Mr. Chairman. We're dealing with a government that puts people in solitude and uncertainty. The government initially thought to cut 75% and ultimately 40% on household care. That leads to everyone being re-approved. These retests lead to a lot of stress. The Central Appeals Board has now ruled. As far as I'm concerned, there's work to be done. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Central Board of Appeal ruled that municipalities should provide household care to those who need it;]] [[noting that the Central Board of Appeal considers that the claim to household care granted under the old Wmo continues to apply, even after 1 January 2015, and may only be adjusted after a review of that claim;]] [[Asks the government to arrange for all people to relive the indication until they have had a proper re-examination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u94	The College's ruling should therefore also be followed that it is an objective assessment without financial frameworks. That is also part of the ruling. I'm filing the next motion now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Central Board of Appeal ruled that household care falls within the scope of the Wmo 2015;]] [[noting that, in the transition to Wmo 2015, the article in charge of household care (Article 4) lapsed;]] [[having noted that many municipalities translated the expiry of Article 4 into the removal of household care;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up as soon as possible a law incorporating domestic care as a caretaker,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u95	With this we make the work of many lawyers redundant and people no longer have to go to court if the municipality makes a pot of it. I'm filing my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noted that almost all municipalities have money left on their healthcare and support budgets;]] [[considers that care money should go to care and that it should be avoided that these surpluses flow to general resources;]] [[calls on the government, as soon as possible, to legislate to ensure that the funds received by municipalities are earmarked and until that time to ensure that care money goes to care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u96	We're not doing it here for the Secretary of State and not for municipalities, but for Saskia and Mrs Van E. You weren't there, but I quoted them in my first term. The latter is 99 years old and is awake from the fact that she gets a re-examination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u97	I have a question about the motion calling on the Secretary of State to amend the law. I find that confusing, because the SP also indicates that the Central Appeals Board has given a ruling. And the SP is happy about that, I think. The ruling is that the law is correct, but that implementation in a number of areas has been interpreted differently by some municipalities. I believe that we agree that the ruling will put an end to any ambiguity. Then why would you have to change the law again? This verdict is here now. She is clear about the interpretation: household help is covered by the Wmo. There's gotta be customization. There must be objective, independent investigation. What else does the SP want to do with a legislative change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u98	This law, which I am referring to as the Secretary of State, with the support of Mrs Bergkamp, has led to a lack of clarity. That law has led to the abolition of a lot of domestic care. I just have to see that all those municipalities are going to re-enter them. And I have to see that the Secretary of State is going to enforce that. That is why I would like a law that simply states that domestic care is part of the law, as is day-to-day spending and care support. That can be fine, because that was Article 4 in the old law and we can just fix it. So the Secretary of State can do that very simply; he does not have to go through a lengthy legislative process for that at all. That puts an end to all ambiguity and therefore does not need to lead to any discussion. The Secretary of State has always said: I think it is, but I leave it to the judge to find out. Now, the judge has said that the law is not really sufficiently clear, he has declared that it belongs in it and he believes that the law should be repaired.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u99	Well, I guess I'm gonna have to start reacting a little harder to the SP. The SP ends with a speech about a lady who is in uncertainty and worried. Mrs Leijten's remark that the law needs to be amended because there would still be a great deal of uncertainty, does not create a great deal of unrest? There's a judge's ruling now. I find the frame the SP chooses very interesting: it is the law. And that while there is a statement that clearly indicates that it is not the wording of the law, but the interpretation of it by a number of municipalities. I sincerely believe that people are worried. If Mrs Leijten is so concerned, I would ask her to take this into account in her speech. You turn it around when you ask for a change to the law because there is uncertainty. I think it's an interesting frame, but I don't think it's nice to the people who it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u100	Now the law says that people have a right to a clean and liveable home. That has become Article 4. It's a different description than the one in the previous law. The judge now says that there is a direct line from the previous one to the current one and that it simply needs to be amended to be completely clear. I would like to point out, by the way, that I did not leave people in uncertainty. I didn't make it look like TSN fell over, people lost their jobs, and 3 billion is being cut back on the most vulnerable in our society. These were the D66, the VVD, the Party of Labour, the Christian Union and the SGP groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u101	There's something else about T.S.N. Mrs Leijten herself asked questions about the management of the organisation. If she says that the people who are responsible for the Wmo are also responsible for the layoffs at TSN, that is very contradictory. I think it is important to have said this, including for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u102	It's noted. In short, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u103	I'd like to respond to that. In 2012 a law was passed in the First Chamber that arranged for a basic rate to be introduced. That, with the support of the same parties I mentioned, has not been taken over in the new Wmo. This had led to the fact that TSN could not have tendered below the tariffs, so that it had not gone bankrupt. So we had already arranged this, but through D66, the VVD, the Labour Party, the Christian Union and the SGP we are now with this debris bin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u104	Mr. Chairman. Everything I want to say is in the next three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the household aid allowance does not meet the objective;]] [[Invites the Government to inform the municipalities no longer to impose conditions on the HHT funds other than that they are spent on household care under the Wmo 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since December 2015 FNV, CNV, VNG and the VWS Ministry have been working on a pilot for a sustainable future for home support;]] [[noting that the approach consists of three pillars under which the pillar retains regular employment as an employed person under decent working conditions;]] [[calls on the government, from the perspective of the Wmo 2015, to inform the House of Representatives of the current state of affairs before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-154]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u105	Then the final motion. It is very precise about what the Secretary of State will write to the municipalities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Secretary of State of VWS is system responsible for the Wmo 2015;]] [[Considering that on 18 May 2016 the Central Appeal Council issued a number of statements on the interpretation of the 2015 WMO on household assistance and its implementation in practice;]] [[Whereas, in any case, it is now established that household care including the provision of clean bed linen and clean clothes is covered by the 2015 Wmo;]] [[Whereas it is now up to municipalities to adapt and implement their policies in accordance with the law;]] [[calls on the Government to appeal to the relevant municipalities to adapt their policies in accordance with the rulings of the Central Appeals Board, namely that:]] [[the municipal decision must be based on objective criteria and on sound, independent (not determined by the health care institution providing the assistance);]] [[the decision should be clear on the specific amount of care provided to citizens;]] [[the reference of the applicant to a full-rate cleaning service is not social support as a general provision as referred to in the Wmo;]] [[if the research results in the provision of tailor-made solutions in the specific case, standard solutions cannot be sufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to closely monitor these changes in accordance with its legal powers and to inform the Second Chamber before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u106	Mr. Chairman. I have a question, two motions and a few comments. That one question is somewhat in line with Mrs Keijzer's last motion. I assume that municipalities will also simply implement the law. I don't think that's too shocking. I'm actually curious as to how it's going to be to inform the people who are involved in this. I am not just talking about the people who have won a lawsuit, because of course this also affects other people. Maybe the Secretary of State can answer that. Is it intended that municipalities will inform their clients individually about this? I like to hear that. Then two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the event of the bankruptcy of home care provider TSN, a large proportion of its employees have been made redundant or for worse conditions of employment have entered into service with another provider;]] [[considers that a wage decline of up to 15% is not in line with the intention of the Social Support Act 2015;]] [[considers that the position of home care workers in the event of bankruptcy and the transition from care to another healthcare provider should be better safeguarded and that maintaining working conditions should be a starting point;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that home care workers are taken over in the event of a transition from care to another healthcare provider while maintaining social and collective bargaining rights and, if necessary, to ensure this through a legislative amendment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2015, municipalities may have retained EUR 360 million of the resources for the implementation of the Social Support Act;]] [[having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular the Treaty on European Union, and in particular the Treaty on the Functioning of the European ……]] [[considers that the resources for the social domain should be preserved;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the availability of resources left over by municipalities for the social domain,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-157]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u107	Finally. Closer to more customization and more direction for people, those were indeed once the goals of decentralisation. And yes, that would lead to cost savings, that was also widely shared. But the effects of the final decision-making process have been that austerity has come first and that they have already been re-booked in advance and are too heavy. There was not enough time for municipalities to prepare everything properly, so even after introduction they did not know exactly what they were up to. We believe that this has also played a role in the bankruptcy of TSN. Not only, but also. I regret that the Secretary of State still does not acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u108	Mr. Chairman. With yesterday's statements by the Central Board of Appeal, the Wmo 2015 house of cards collapsed, and that has not yet reached everyone in this room. In the first installment, I kept my gunpowder dry. That's because there's something wrong with the whole story, if you compare the reaction of the Secretary of State to the statements this morning with previous letters he sent last year. I didn't want to discuss that here. I would like the next few weeks to look at it as well and then come back to it in written questions. So I was a little quiet, but that doesn't mean I'm gonna accept the way things are going and the Secretary of State's response to those statements. It means I'll come back to it a lot later and probably a lot bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u109	Mr. Chairman. About the judgments of the Central Board of Appeal: let these be the start of a period in which people, clients who want to use domestic help because they need it, no longer have to go to court. I would like to hear a confirmation from the Secretary of State that the fact that he is now sending letters to the municipalities can be seen as a first step according to the escalation ladder. I would also like a feedback on this in the progress report. Then I'll come to the kitchen table conversations. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has indicated that the quality of this should be improved, but I do have some doubts about that. D66 has said that before. My question to the Secretary of State is when he wants to send the rules of the ANBO to the municipalities. He announced in the letter that he would, but I understand that those rules have not yet been sent. What happens to the kitchen table conversations that have been made over the phone? We all know that sometimes people have come to someone's house, but sometimes it has also happened very quickly on the phone. What does the ruling of the Central Appeals Board mean? I also have a question about the Central Board of Appeal. I think Mrs. Voortman said the same thing. We've been talking about the municipalities all along, but how do clients know what their rights are? I think this is very important. It may also be possible for civil society organisations to play a role in this. I'm filing a motion on the kitchen table calls. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the kitchen tables are an important moment to establish the correct indication for support;]] [[Whereas partners at the kitchen table are sometimes reluctant to make the request for aid known;]] [[considers that the kitchen table conversation should not be a discouragement conversation, but should contribute to an objective picture of the care required;]] [[calls on the government to make an active effort, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to increase the quality of the kitchen table discussions before the summer of 2016 in order to ensure their quality, and to inform the Chamber in September 2016 or in a progress report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u110	Mr. Chairman. In this debate, we have concluded that domestic helpers do not have an easy time. Much has changed in healthcare and these changes have created a lot of uncertainty among healthcare providers and clients. We have called on the Secretary of State to take action to remove that uncertainty from people, so that municipalities that do not want to provide customization will do so now. In response, the Secretary of State said that he was going to talk to municipalities, that he was going to send them a letter and that he was going to address them as a first step in the escalation ladder on their task. They really need to deliver tailor-made solutions so that people who get care at home can stay home for as long as possible. That's what we're all about. Now that the Central Appeals Board has given its ruling, that has made it clear. We therefore assume that municipalities will provide tailor-made services. We are going to have a separate debate on this in the Chamber shortly. First of all, we want to see what the State Secretary's talks with the municipalities mean and how this translates into a letter before we support any further measures. What we want is that you can stay independent as long as possible close, in your own environment. Let us not forget that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u111	I call Mr Otwin van Dijk. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm skipping Mrs. Dik-Faber. I saw you startled, Mr Van Dijk. That's good, too, because then you'll be right on your feet. I call Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u112	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the procedures for appeal and appeal to municipalities' decisions under the WMO are long-term and not transparent, and that the citizens who need care and support should spend as little energy as possible on complex legal procedures;]] [[Whereas care ombudsmen and women can provide political and procedural advice to municipalities on regulation;]] [[Whereas in the meantime there are municipalities which have set up an impartial and independent ombud function within the framework of the Wmo, but have not yet provided it for all municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways of strengthening the expertise of local ombudsmen and women in order to increase their capacity to act and strengthen the position of aid seekers within the social domain;]] [[calls on the Government also to promote, while maintaining municipal responsibility, the establishment of a healthcare ombudsman function at municipal or regional level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u113	There is no time limit in the motion, but I can imagine that this will come to the Chamber together with the AMvB. This also applies to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the procedures for appeal and appeal to municipalities' decisions under the WMO are long-term and not transparent, and that the citizens who need care and support should spend as little energy as possible on complex legal procedures;]] [[Whereas Article 9:14 of the General Administrative Law provides that the examination and advice of complaints by the administrative body may be entrusted to a person or committee and that Article 7:13 provides for the possibility of an external advisory committee for the examination of objections;]] [[having regard to the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal,]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[examine the possibility of establishing a national advisory committee as referred to in Article 7:13 Awb, to which all municipalities should submit their citizens' objections for advice before deciding on a citizen's objection to a decision on the Wmo 2015;]] [[examine the possibility that such a committee, in addition to advising the municipality in the individual objection cases, should also report aggregated to the municipal councils (on local implementation practice) and to the government (on the national image) on its findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u114	I couldn't bring the law in so quickly. Is this about the committees that mayor and aldermen advise on filed objections? There are 395 municipalities with 395 advisory committees. I've been on such a committee myself. At least once a month you have a full agenda. Does the group of the Christian Union have a good idea of what it is doing? I think it's a big deal. In short, what is the fraction of the Christian Union at stake? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u115	I see at the moment that there is an incredible amount of time, money, energy and frustration involved in legal proceedings, and I want to avoid that. I am aware that municipalities have the power to set up an advisory committee. I wonder whether that is sufficient, given the ruling of the Central Appeals Board. I ask the Secretary of State to examine the desirability and possibility of a national committee. I want to keep so many people from going to court. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u116	Mr. Chairman. Although much can be noticed about the acquisition policy and the strategy of the organization TSN... the reason for this debate... is for the people who hit this a personal drama. You're just gonna be home help and wonder if you still have your job, and if you need any help, you're gonna wonder if you're gonna get it. Over the last few months, many stakeholders, municipalities, home helpers themselves, organisations and the Secretary of State have worked very hard on solutions. Although these solutions may not have brought anything for all employees, I think it is a good thing that in the short term all those who need help could keep them. Still, three things had to be done. That is what has been discussed in this debate. First of all, of course, that is yesterday's decision by the Central Appeals Board. He says once again that maid service is part of the Wmo. In my view, this debate has brought about one thing: we all think so, and we have instructed the Secretary of State to address municipalities. He has promised to deploy the escalator ladder, as it is called in jargon. We are counting on him to do so and that the municipalities that have passed the review here have not yet brought their policies into line with what should be done. The second thing to do is to pay a fair price. For honest work, you should also get a fair wage. I understand the General Measure of Management is coming to the Chamber next month. In the municipal councils, we really need to talk about the fact that it is not just a price tender, but also about quality and continuity of care. They're at least as important, if not more important. Finally, a number of new initiatives have emerged from the misery of TSN. I call the Family Help Foundation of Jos de Blok. I am thinking of the regional providers who have taken over people and the care cooperatives in Apeldoorn. They start in more places. I really hope that I have put a question to the Secretary of State on this, which he has answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u117	Mrs Keijzer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u118	I have one question. I actually hear Mr Van Dijk say the same thing as Mrs Schut said on behalf of the VVD. He also speaks warm words like "you will only work in home care or be dependent on care." Does the PvdA also feel responsible, as a banner of that policy and as the political party that has been at the root of all these reforms that have led to these situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u119	The moment you change with each other, you're responsible. Not only for legislation, but also for implementation. Mrs Keijzer is quite right about that. That is why I told the Secretary of State that there are still a number of actions to be taken. Point out the municipalities that have not brought their policies into line with the purpose of the law. You have to. That's what the judge said. Make room for new, small-scale care initiatives and also ensure that a fair price is paid: fair pay for fair work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u120	Very good. Thank you. The closure of the Chamber is carried out by Mr Krol of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u121	Mr President, should I say'municipality'? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State will hopefully do his best to ensure that from now on all municipalities act in the spirit of the statements of the Central Board of Appeal. I heard him about a letter and, if necessary, actions along the escalator ladder. In that sense, he is actively directing. However, 50PLUS wants to prevent it from coming to this point again and wants the verdict to be clearly recorded. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the judgments of the Central Board of Appeal concerning the Wmo and domestic aid may have a major impact on municipalities, clients, employees and health care organisations;]] [[Whereas the need for these statements has demonstrated that the WMO is open to multiple interpretations;]] [[Whereas this has led to additional uncertainty, legal inequality and legal proceedings;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the Wmo can be clarified in line with the rulings of the Central Appeals Board and to take the initiative to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u122	By the way, I have heard the Secretary of State compliment municipalities and aldermen. However, I have not heard any compliments from him to the carers and the carers, but I may have missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u123	That is the second and final term of the Chamber. Is the Secretary of State already able to answer? Or should I suspend for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u124	Mr. Chairman. Some questions have been asked which I will try to answer before I come to the interpretation of the motions. Mrs Voortman said that the objective of decentralisation was "customisation." I agree with her very much and I would like to add that tailor-made work is and remains the objective. Why do I say that? Let us also remember that we introduced the decentralisations and reforms on 1 January 2015. We have asked the municipalities to ensure continuity of care. They had to take over a lot of tasks. That battle for more customization, of course, also takes time. Earlier on in the debates on the Wmo, we also said to each other that the crystallisation of the whole movement that has been set in motion will take time. Let's be a little careful to assume that, after the first year of transition, everything is going as it should be. We must continue to hunt, we must continue to make things better and we must continue to learn, but let us also give the process some time so that municipalities can develop their policies further. I would also like to confirm to Mrs Bergkamp that the letter can be regarded as a first step on the escalation ladder. Let me look at the exact nature of the ANBO rules, which we have indeed made available to the VNG to develop training and training modules for Wmo consultants for the kitchen tables. But perhaps I can take them with me, aboundingly, in the letter that I will send to the congregations about the statements of the Central Board of Appeal. Let me now turn to her question on the telephone of the kitchen tables. It seems to me that, if you need to talk and tune in on the support, you can't take that off on the phone. At least that is not possible in all cases. Suppose nothing changes, then you can agree that nothing changes. In those cases, it also makes sense. However, a kitchen table in which care is assigned for the first time and where consultation with carers is required will not normally be possible by telephone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u125	Of course, I fully share that conclusion. If you can't make it through a phone call, it has to be different. However, the question is, also looking at the statement, what this means for the people who have only received superficial telephone maintenance, which is then called a kitchen table conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u126	However, I think it is appropriate that municipalities in which an objection procedure is conducted should inform clients that they will review the assumptions of the municipality that are now being overtaken by the rulings of the Central Board of Appeal. This also applies to clients who have previously been rejected under this policy. They should be informed of the fact that the case will be reviewed. I'll take that as well in the letter I send to the congregations. I think those were the questions. I shall now turn to the motions for resolutions. Mrs Leijten has tabled three motions. Before I deal with it, perhaps I should say that I have tried to keep an eye on nuance and proportionality in the debate. Of course, we don't have to agree. Mrs Leijten says, however, that we are dealing with a government that plunges people into loneliness. I'm really out of line with that. We are all trying to create good and appropriate facilities, not only for now, but also for the future. It is not good to speak in these terms, because I believe that this will increase uncertainty. We may differ on the targets and the instruments, but let's not talk about a government that would put people in solitude. In any case, I would like to make it clear that I am not going to make that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u127	The Secretary of State can do that. He's been doing that since 2012. He has also said since 2012 that 40% of those who now have household care do not need it. That brings people into uncertainty, and that is a policy that I have kept far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u128	Fine. The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u129	We will not agree on that. In fact, I would like to say that the remaining targets for domestic aid are now about 25%, after all the measures we have taken in this respect. I come to Mrs Leijten's first motion. 151. It asks the government to arrange for all people to relive the indication until they have had a proper re-examination. On the basis of the statements, not all indications can resurrect, because sometimes there has been care. There would be no legal basis for it either. I just said that I expect municipalities to approach clients again and talk to them if they want to. That's what I'll take in my letter. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In the Leijten motion on part No. 152 the government is asked to make a law incorporating domestic care as a care task. I must say that I very much agree with Mrs Bergkamp's analysis on this point. The security does not increase by changing the law, while the highest court has said that it is not necessary because it is perfectly clear in the law. I agree with Mrs Bergkamp who said that such a change of law would actually only increase uncertainty, regardless of problems with the legislative process itself. For this reason, I advise against this motion. In the Leijten motion on part No. 153 the government is invited to arrange for funds to be earmarked. This has been discussed extensively. At the time, we deliberately chose not to hear them, also on the advice of the Court of Auditors and in view of the administrative burden that this would entail. Moreover, an administrative agreement has been made with the municipalities on how these resources would be retained further in the social domain. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 154 belongs to Mrs Keijzer. It invites the government to inform the municipalities no longer to impose conditions on HHT funds other than that they are spent on domestic care. With the agreements of 4 December, I think those conditions have already been abandoned. However, resources should contribute to regular jobs, decent working conditions and good solutions to acute problems. However, I would like to respond to Mrs Keijzer by considering this motion as a policy support. So I'll leave the vote to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u130	Does the condition of the own contribution therefore lapse?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u131	No, because we have agreed with the municipalities that this own contribution will be reduced from €10 to €5. We would like to maintain that. Mrs Keijzer mentioned the conditions for granting the HHT. The motion in part No. 155 is also Mrs Keijzer's. In it, the government is asked to inform the Dutch Parliament of the current state of affairs from the perspective of the Wmo 2015 for the summer recess. This is about job retention. I'd be happy to admit this. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 156 asks Mrs Keijzer the government to inform the municipalities as precisely as possible about the rulings of the Central Appeals Board. That's what I'm saying. Those statements are all listed. I am also asked to closely monitor these changes, in accordance with my legal powers, and to inform the House of Representatives before the summer recess. In view of what has been said in the debate and the commitments I have made, I consider this motion to support policy. I will indeed inform the aldermen about this. I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman on part No. 157.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u132	The judgment on the motion in part No. So 156 leaves you to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u133	Yes. I was talking about the motion in part No. 157. I'm just looking. I have tried to make it clear in the debate that there are a number of safeguards and various arrangements which seek to ensure employment and working conditions, a little depending on the situation. I have already indicated that regulation in a generic sense is not always in the interests of the employee, because this can also lead to takeover problems. I admit that I will inform the Chamber further by letter about the legal possibilities that already exist, not only in the Wmo but also in various other laws. I will also agree with the Ministry of Social Affairs and then consider whether there is any reason to maintain the motion in this way. I would like to tempt Mrs Voortman with the commitment of this letter, in which I list the legal possibilities to see if there are any gaps in it, to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u134	Those gaps are there! There are now people who are falling enormously in pay, not only in bankruptcy situations, but also in other situations. I don't want to hear if those gaps are there, but how we're gonna do something about that. If that's discussed in the letter, I'd be happy to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u135	That is a step too far for me at this stage. I have tried to argue in the debate that if you want to regulate in a generic sense that it should always be taken over, it would be too heavy for those who have to take over and could lead to the employment of those concerned not being promoted by it. There are several safeguards that are already there. The question is whether they are sufficient. I think it's good to see what's already been arranged. I can imagine that Mrs Voortman will still find that there are gaps and that there must be something else. I hope that if we put all the different laws and regulations together and argue in which cases the safeguards work and do not, we will also be able to have a substantive debate on what is still needed. I propose that Mrs Voortman should continue the motion on the basis of the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u136	I'm talking about situations where the work is still there. People can keep doing the same work. If the Secretary of State wants to include in the letter how he wants to deal with the situation in which people are falling enormously, while the work is still there, I'd be happy to keep her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u137	I do not want to anticipate the conclusions. Mrs Voortman says that the conclusion for her is already clear: if there is the same work, the working conditions will remain completely intact. The problem with bankruptcy is that people are in a dismissal situation and the new provider has to make a new decision. If you were to arrange for a new provider to have to take over with all the conditions of employment, this would not promote the employment and the willingness of the parties to take over. The horse is stretched behind the cart. This does not mean that I am prepared to look at what is regulated in the laws and how we can encourage them to work as well as possible for the benefit of workers and workers, so that, if there is a transition to work, we can do the best we can to ensure that there is work and that the working conditions remain as intact as possible. There are several possibilities for this, but I am not going to make a commitment that this will require further legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u138	I am not saying in the motion that there should be a legislative change by definition. I say "if necessary." I'm gonna have to put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u139	I'd rather not dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u140	We all note that she's just gonna be in the mood. Then what is the verdict of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u141	Then I'd like to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u142	I didn't expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u143	I've done my best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u144	Then the motion to part No. 158.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u145	In the motion in part No. 158 The government is asked to promote the availability of the resources left by municipalities for the social domain. I would point out that, at the time, when discussing whether it should be a separate scheme or an integration allowance was said, also on the advice of the Court of Auditors, to opt for the integration allowance. At the same time, the administrative agreement between the government and the UNG has been made that the resources for the social domain are preserved as far as possible. I see this motion as supporting policy and leave it to the Chamber. I'll come to the motion in part No. 159 by Mrs Bergkamp. In it we are asked to promote that the kitchen table conversations receive a quality impulse. We will soon be discussing progress reports, including the improvement agenda of the VNG with client organisations. I'd like to promise the Chamber that I will continue to inform her. Ms Bergkamp asked to inform the Chamber in September 2016. I'd like to do that. I consider this motion to support policy and I leave it to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 160 is asked to set up the care ombud function. Let me try to see if we can get a little closer together. I am prepared to explore how the expertise of local ombudsmen can be strengthened and their impact increased, for example by facilitating a nationwide coverage network of healthcare ombudsmen. I'd like to send a letter to the Chamber before the summer recess. The motion goes a little further. It says: to promote the establishment of a healthcare ombudsman function at municipal or regional level. That's a step too far. I would like to look with the municipalities that have an ombud function to see what bottlenecks they are encountering and to promote the establishment of a national network. Then we can consider whether further measures are necessary. I would like to ask Mrs Dik-Faber if she is prepared to hold her motion pending that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u146	The motion states explicitly "with the maintenance of municipal responsibility." We cannot, of course, assume the responsibility of the municipalities from the Empire. It is the municipalities that are responsible for setting up the ombud function, but we can see how we can promote this and so on. That's requested in the motion. I don't think there's a difference of opinion between the Secretary of State and me. If there is one word left that gives us any clarity, I would be happy to amend my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u147	If I may point out the motion in such a way that I am asked to examine with the municipalities, on the basis of their experience with the Ombudsman, how we can strengthen this function and see if further action is needed, then I leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u148	That's what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u149	Then it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u150	The motion in part No. 161 is about the national advisory committee. I have reservations about that, for a number of reasons. One reason is the point made by Mrs Keijzer on this point: should we set up a committee at national level which may have a lot to do? Under the direction of Home Affairs, Professor Scheltema has been instructed to investigate how the objection procedures in relation to the procedures in the General Administrative Law Act can be simplified and simplified even further. I imagine we're waiting for this investigation. Depending on that investigation, I'd like to dissuade this motion. Perhaps Mrs Dik-Faber would like to continue her motion after my promise that I will speak to the Chamber about this once the results of Mr Scheltema's investigation are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u151	I don't know the investigation. I'm very interested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u152	It's running.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u153	Yeah, the ongoing investigation. I'll wait for the results and hold the motion in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u154	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (23235), No. 161). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u155	I'll come to the motion in part No. 162, in which Mr Krol asks how the law can be further clarified in line with the rulings of the Central Appeals Board. In the debate, it has been discussed extensively that the Central Appeals Board considers that there is no reason to assume that domestic aid does not belong to Wmo. There is therefore no need for a change of law, and for that reason I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u156	On the occasion of the motion in part No. 157. The Secretary of State does not want to anticipate any action being taken. I do not want the Secretary of State to get ahead of the fact that no action is being taken. If he tells us in his letter what it is exactly legal and what arrangements there are, but does not yet anticipate that nothing has to happen by definition, then I would like to accept his offer and continue my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u157	I appreciate that. That's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u158	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (23235), No. 157). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u159	My motion doesn't ask to change the law at all. It says, and this is the result of the fact that this is subject to more interpretations, or the Secretary of State wants to see if he can further clarify what is in the law for those concerned. There's a need for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u160	But I would like to refer to the ruling of the Central Appeals Board. There is no reason or reason to believe that the law is unclear on this very point. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to consider whether this should be done further. We have just had this debate in response to Mrs Bergkamp's comment. So I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-15.u161	I thank the Secretary of State. The motions will be put to the vote on Tuesday.
