ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party, often shoulder to shoulder with the unions and a number of parties here in the Chamber, fights for a decent labour market. A labour market where people are not seen as a necessary cost item on which you cut as much as possible but as the largest capital of a company in which you invest. That's not an easy fight, but it has to be fought. Fortunately, we regularly succeed in getting laws in place. For example, with the Wet approach to bogus constructions we tackle the underpayment of foreign colleagues and repression of "too expensive" Dutch construction workers and truck drivers. We do this by condemning abuses, for example when municipalities allow welfare recipients to fold paper flowers in a cold factory hall for years, without any perspective. That happened in the Achterhoek. It's stopped now. We also do it as employers using Poland constructions and Cyprus routes, now banned by the court, and when PostNL treats its parcel delivery workers as legally free self-employed without staff. This weekend, the announcement came that they're just getting another permanent contract. The next thing we want to do is abuse internships and work experience places. During your education or study it is often difficult to find an internship place, once you have your diploma in you can choose nowadays. Why? Because there's a construction where employers think that while you're just doing work, they can ship you off with a tip or a book receipt. FNV Jong has opened a hotline for this. The TV program The Monitor paid attention to it. I called on the Minister on motion to deal with this abuse through a plan of action. Last week, the Minister responded by letter to my motion. A number of first steps were announced. I ask the Secretary of State what the Minister is going to do. The letter is full of activities, but I do not see an action plan in it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kerstens has put forward a number of points which the Minister and I recognize as a substitute for the Minister, in the sense that, of course, it cannot be that an intern does the same as a permanent worker in the company or that the internship is used as a kind of trial period. In this case, at least the statutory minimum wage should be considered. This also applies to the work experience site. It is a good thing that the youth organisations of three parties, GroenLinks, the SP and the Labour Party, as well as FNV Jong, are calling in and watching this closely. If there is abuse of traineeships, it is a good thing that this is being reported and put forward. The Minister sent a plan of action to the Chamber on 12 April last, so very recently. Three lines of action have been set out. Mr. Kerstens asked for that. Firstly, that is the strengthening of information provision and the information position, so that young people really indicate where this occurs. I would point out that they can do so anonymously. If employers offer them an internship where they could actually just earn the legal minimum wage, they can report it anonymously. Secondly, there is the risk-based maintenance. All reports are carefully considered. There's got to be enough information in there. Thirdly, there is the promotion of consciousness. The Minister is also in conclave with educational organisations and other organisations, such as employers' organisations, to further enhance awareness. The Minister has already promised to inform the Budgetary Office of the progress of these activities. He will then assess the need for additional activities to further reduce the abuse of traineeships.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u3	The Secretary of State already referred to it: last Friday in the Volkskrant there was a written piece of the youth organisations of the Party of Labour, the SP and GroenLinks, as well as of FNV Jong in which they gave a so-called wake-up call and called on employers to deal decently with employees because that is what they are. It was also an appeal to us, to politics. In that piece they put their finger on the sore spot when it comes to tackling this abuse. The young people in question are often in no position to protest: for you ten others after all. Maybe that so-called internship or work experience place, if you keep your mouth shut, might eventually lead to a real job with a real salary; maybe, someday. That's the way it is, of course. It is an illusion to assume that this abuse can be dealt with by reminding young people of their rights, however important that is, of course, in itself. I just heard the Secretary of State suggest the possibility of an anonymous complaint. I am happy with that in itself, although I can imagine that it is then a cold trick for the employer to trace that anonymous complaint back to the young person who is in an internship or work experience place. So I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State for something extra. Is she prepared, together with the Minister, to ask the writers of the document in the newspaper for that too, and I have also pointed out once again that internships are part of an education, that internships are on the agenda before anyone gets a diploma, and that once that diploma is in, a real job with a real salary is in place? That's part of that decent labour market I just started with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u4	In short, as Mr Kerstens does, I can stress once again that traineeships must be in the context of training. An internship on the workplace is additional. The learning aspect must be central. It's not about productive work for which you should be able to get at least a minimum wage. There should also be good guidance. It's part of an internship at home. In that respect, I very much agree with Mr Kerstens. He also asks me to see what else can be done. In this respect, I would say that the Minister intends to forward the progress of all activities to the Chamber before the budgetary procedure. On this basis, he will assess whether additional activities are needed. I assume that the Minister will do so in close consultation with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u5	It is good to hear that the Minister is coming back to us again to establish that real action plan with us. At least he already knows what I'm gonna bring up. Internships are part of an education, and if you have a degree, you have a job and you're paid for it. The Minister indicated that he would reduce this for budgetary treatment. However, the Secretary of State knows as well as I do, as the rest of the Chamber, that this is not until the end of the year. Can you speed it up a little bit? Can we speed things up a little bit? After all, the problem is big enough for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u6	Sure. The plan of action was sent last week. We need to get to work on that first. I know the Minister well enough to know that if he can send things to the Chamber sooner, he will certainly not let that happen. I am very happy that FNV Jong has set up a hotline. They also want to pass the reports on to the inspection of SZW. I think that's excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u7	The letter from Minister Asscher shows that twelve investigations have been carried out. Ten studies show that there was no problem with the work experience site. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that FNV Jong, but also the socialist youth organisations, are thereby distorting the extent to which this problem arises? Is the Secretary of State prepared to include in the letter that has just been promised that 61% of the work experience spots have led to a real job? Then the success of the work experience spots is included in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u8	We were just talking about internships. You have internships and work experience spots. I think we should keep the apple and the pear apart for a while. For the internships the hotline seems excellent to me. If internships are wrongly used under the motto "stage" when they are actually jobs, then that is not possible. That's very good when the finger is put in the sore spot. So I really want to separate those two things. Mrs Lucas is right in the sense that work experience spots can often lead to a real job. However, if there are abuses, then you just have to deal with them. There are abuses around some of the internships, so they're being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time.
