ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday we saw Alberto Stegeman in the program Undercover in the Netherlands. Without any problems, he entered the military base in Oirschot. He could drive around among the military vehicles. No one to talk to him. To the extent of disaster, he also drove out with an army jeep full of Defense equipment. Not a cock that crowd at it. Security's as leaky as a basket. This is not only embarrassing for the defense, it is also dangerous, because next time it is not Alberto Stegeman who walks in but someone with evil intentions, like a terrorist. Now the Secretary of Defense has already said that she is going to tighten up control, but we have heard that before. In 2008 Stegeman did exactly the same. Then he invaded Woensdrecht Air Base. At that time too, there was a substantial level of threat due to terrorism. Even then, we were promised better health. Hence my next questions. Does the government acknowledge that Alberto Stegeman's action shows that barracks security is failing? Does she share the view that this is dangerous because of the threat of terror? How is it going to prevent a repetition? The security of the military is now at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for the questions he has put. Yesterday, following the broadcast, the Minister of Defence sent a letter to the Chamber announcing a number of measures. The security of the barracks and, in particular, the controls at the gate have now been strengthened. This is particularly true of the army. For the Air Force and the Navy there was already a personal security, in the form of a man or a woman at the gate of each location. That has now been introduced for the army as well. In this letter, the Minister also announced that she would examine the structural measures needed to prevent similar incidents in the future. She will inform the Chamber of the results of that investigation. It's hundreds of locations. She wants to do that research very carefully, of course, but she will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. As the Minister said in her letter yesterday, it is obviously unacceptable that this could have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u4	I took a look back at what was done in 2008. Then the then Minister of Defence Van Middelkoop said: unacceptable, this really cannot be done, we are going to take action. Well, there's been enhanced security for four months, and then it's been lifted. There would also be a plan of action. And now today in 2016 we're just standing here again. What's the government doing to make sure we're not back here next year and Stegeman entered another barracks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u5	As I just said, the Secretary of Defense will investigate all locations. It'll take a while. This aims to assess whether the existing system, a tiered system of security categories, is functioning adequately. There is, of course, a constant and continuous review of the risks that might arise and whether they should be adapted to them. As a result of this investigation, the Minister will look at it again and inform the Chamber whether, in addition to the measures she took yesterday, additional measures are needed. Again, it is a continuous process of risk assessment based on a layered system with different security categories.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u6	"We're gonna see all that" and "it's a continuous process." The Minister can already do two very concrete things today, especially in the areas of dangerous matters, such as weapons. I think that manning at the entrance wasn't there, if you've seen the broadcast... and barriers. They stay open for a long time, so Stegeman could just drive after another car. Have those two cases been arrested?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr Van Dijk is beating the nail on the head. These are exactly the two measures taken by the Secretary of Defense yesterday. In the Air Force and the Navy it was already so, but also in the Army there is now a man or a woman at the gate. It is also checked at all locations if the barrier goes down fast enough. That was, of course, a problem, as we have all seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u8	Can I therefore assume that we will no longer see that Alberto Stegeman or someone with an evil mind enters into an army base in the future? Can the Minister promise us that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u9	As I said, security measures have been taken, depending on the object and the activities of that object. The Minister is conducting further investigation at all locations. That's a lot of them. As a result, it will send a further letter to the Chamber, in which it will, if necessary, announce additional measures in addition to the measures it took yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr Van Dijk already referred to it: 2008. I was at that debate. I remember the broadcast. This minister is now unlucky enough to have her back here if there is a major problem with the Defense Department, but there is nothing this minister can do about it. She represents the cabinet. At that time, the Minister of Defence announced that structural measures would be taken; precisely the reassuring words that this Minister now utters. The feeling that prevails on this side of the Chamber is reflected in the question of how serious these promises are now, if there have apparently been all kinds of system errors in recent years. My question to the Minister is as follows. Have the cuts of recent years been responsible for the fact that the security of these locations is as it is? Has the outsourcing of security services played a role in this? My second question is whether the problem of the passes, which, as the broadcast showed, are still present in large numbers and wandering around, including those who are not competent to do so, is being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr Knops, it really has to be short and with one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u12	It is an important subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u13	Sure. All topics are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u14	The Secretary of Defense will undoubtedly return to the passes in the reporting of that investigation. Of course, this is part of the domain of security. I will also pass on the question put by Mr Knops. The security, both of the men and women in the barracks and of the equipment, is of course at the top. The DOD has a system that allows them to estimate the risks. I can imagine that this is always up to date, but we have now seen that there has been a possibility of improvement. That's what the Minister did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u15	D66, like many Dutch people, has been surprised to learn of the broadcast. In addition to the questions asked, I am particularly interested in how it is possible that on 9 February 2009 a communiqué was issued by the Defence Department, stating that additional security measures are no longer necessary because the internal security authority's investigation has shown that it is in order. Is the Minister prepared to share that investigation with the Chamber and explain how the situation could have arisen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u16	I have made it clear that there will be a new investigation. The Minister will review all locations based on risk management. I think the results of a full investigation in 2016, as the Minister suggests, are more relevant than taking back to 2009.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u17	I do not entirely agree with the Minister. We can learn from the reason why someone decided in 2009 that it's better. Otherwise, I'll try another way. My second comment and question concern the following. The letter, which actually covers only three paragraphs, refers twice to the fact that a investigative journalist did so. We're surprised at that. Why doesn't the D.O.D. even invite people to check on security once in a while? The suggestion that the investigative journalist is the one who has been wrong, I find a wrong suggestion. But perhaps I have understood it more than it is intended to be, despite the fact that two of the three paragraphs are devoted to this point. I'd like a response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u18	I did not read in the letter that the suggestion was made to which Mrs Belhaj refers. It's unacceptable that it could have happened, period. That is also the view expressed by the Minister of Defence here. I told you it shouldn't have happened like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u19	There is an enormous threat of terror. We're at war with ISIS. The fact that our military sites, aircraft bases and so on are not adequately secured is, of course, completely ridiculous and unacceptable. I've received complaints from, among other things, Eindhoven Air Force Base. That air base is not the least or least, but military there say: our air base is guarded by two unarmed civilians and not by military. Can the Minister respond to this and ensure that the situation is changed, so to speak, tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u20	I myself am not in a position to confirm the report received by Mr Bontes. I would like to pass on Mr Bontes' comment to the Minister of Defence for observation. The research will undoubtedly also involve Eindhoven Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u21	I would like to ask a second question. Security in various military fields and aircraft bases has been outsourced. The fact that there are two unarmed citizens on the Eindhoven Air Base may have to do with outsourcing or contracting security to third parties. That, in my opinion, has to do with the huge cuts that the Defense Department has been going through lately. That's the kind of thing you're gonna do. Does the Minister see the link between the cuts that have been made by the Defense Department in recent years and the poor security of military sites?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr Knops asked the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-5.u23	I was just about to say I'm repeating myself a little bit. Sorry about that. As I said, DOD is setting up security based on a risk assessment. There are four categories, and I am sure Mr Bontes knows this with his record. Depending on that assessment, security will be ensured. Again, what happened is not acceptable. That's why the Secretary of Defense is announcing an investigation. I repeat to Mr Bontes that Eindhoven Airport will undoubtedly be involved in that investigation.
