ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Van Klaveren. He is supported in trade-K in the defence of this bill by Mr Zwart, Professor of Human Rights, and Mr Driessen and Mr Roos, staff of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group. Welcome! I would also like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice, who is present as an advisor to the Chamber when dealing with this initiative proposal. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The legislative proposal will continue to be dealt with at a later stage in consultation with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u2	Madam President. Today we are discussing Mr Van Klaveren's proposal on the extension of freedom of expression. Making a bill is always a big deal. This is also a politically sensitive issue and a legal minefield. I would therefore like to congratulate him on his commitment to come forward with a concrete proposal on this difficult subject. I certainly assume that this will at least lead to a nice debate. Talking about freedom of expression always demands a special balancing art. On the one hand, freedom of expression is a great asset, an important fundamental right. It is the right to stand on long toes, a protective shield to express views that go against the spirit of time and against the prevailing beliefs. You need to be able to say clearly what it says. It is extremely worrying that this freedom should be restricted too far. That is why there is always reason to be particularly alert. On the other hand, that freedom is not absolute, not unlimited. There are not only legal limits; there is also the moral standard that one should not hurt another unnecessarily and that you acknowledge and respect the dignity of every fellow human being, whoever he or she is. It is extremely worrying for peaceful coexistence if that freedom is stretched too far. The distinction between expressing an opinion and inciting violence can be flimsy. It is therefore extremely worrying if this freedom is stretched too far. A good balance between freedom and responsibility is needed. There is also another reason for balancing today: just recently, the debate on this subject has flared up as a result of the criminal case on the statements made by Mr Wilders. Precisely because this case is still concretely under the jurisdiction of the court, the appeal has been announced. And for another reason, it is a question of balancing: too much use of criminal law can be counterproductive. It is particularly important to have a good debate on this in case of unpleasant words. If people feel hurt, they should not walk straight to the police, but be resilient themselves and enter into a compelling conversation. So please don't make too much use of the judge in the debate on unpleasant statements. But too little use of criminal law, the absolute absence of the judge as a border guard, can mean that there is further deterioration and that there is insufficient counter-pressure against language that undermines the security of others in society. What does colleague Van Klaveren want? He removes three criminal offences: gang vetting, inciting hatred and inciting discrimination. I must say that this is a rugged intervention, which immediately raises extremely critical questions in the SGP, also looking back at the origin of those provisions. The collective termination of Article 137c of the Code of Criminal Law was introduced precisely in the 1930s with the aim of combating anti-Semitism. That nasty words to Jews in the civilized West could just sneak in and turn into horrible acts, then history showed terrifyingly intrusively. Even today, anti-Semitism is, unfortunately, getting stronger again as a dangerous poison. Is it not extremely unfortunate to delete this article with the blunt axe? What legal possibilities do the petitioner still have to contend with Holocausttontkening? Then the removal of inciting hatred. Is this not in the way, for example, of combating hate speech of radical imams? We've been talking about that a lot in the past few years. That is also an issue in the political view of the initiator, isn't it? Doesn't his proposal give less opportunities to put an end to radical Islam? Now his counter-argument could be that precisely these kinds of provisions stand in the way of solid Islam criticism. I would like to ask whether the 2009 Supreme Court's so-called 'Swell Judgment' shows that even harsh criticism of opinions that live in a group falls outside the scope of the penal law. I would like to hear from the author what he thinks are the concrete consequences if this proposal were to be adopted. Does this mean that almost anything is possible, can be said and published, including around, for example, the Holocaust or anti-Semitism? I'm coming to blasphemy. We had a debate a while ago in which the specific article that criminalized blasphemy was deleted with reference to Article 137c. At the time, this was considered to be a double case, because it was possible to take action on the basis of Article 137c, among other things. What protection will there be if this article is abolished? As one of the objectives of freedom of expression, the author describes the need to keep the public debate open and promote it. Does he have the impression that this debate cannot take place at this time? On the contrary, I see a lot of debate on many issues and I also see a lot to be said. Is the impression really that we have to fear that we are constantly getting the criminal lawman after us if we do some careless expressions? What could be said in future, on the basis of this bill, which cannot now be said? Does the same breach of the social debate not apply to the other criminal provisions? Can he indicate why the criminality of single insult, sedition, defamation or slander is maintained? What is his basic view of how far freedom of expression, regardless of treaty obligations, should go? Moreover, the author himself writes that the judge will be guided by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Will something change in practice if the European Court of Human Rights maintains the same line? Those were a large number of critical questions to the author. I have already indicated that we do not welcome this proposal in this way. Does this mean that everything that is applied in practice is fine and that we do not have to talk about it? No, it's not that. Indeed, the initiator has a point when he says that there is sometimes uncertainty in judicial practice and that there are considerable differences of interpretation in the interpretation and application of the provisions. The Council of State also points this out. That is why I ask the initiator whether he has considered proposing concrete clarifications rather than the rigid deletion. My question to the Minister is how he looks at this. I would also like to invite the Minister for Security and Justice to reflect once again on the application of these anti-discrimination provisions in practice. I would like to ask four specific questions in this connection. First of all... A new ground in the articles we are discussing today is 'physical, mental or intellectual disability'. You shouldn't offend that group, either. I must confess that I myself have been at the cradle of restricting this freedom of expression and the extension of these articles of law. It is in fact the drafting of the motion adopted by Mr Rouvoet and myself in the debate on the budget for the year 2000. As a result, this land has become part of the articles we are discussing today. Now that I saw the whole field again, I was wondering what application was given in practice. In the history of law, calls for children with disabilities not to be born were also included in the scope of the penal law. Is this also taken seriously in practice? If someone calls for girls to be aborted, they would rightly be strongly opposed. We also do this in foreign policy. But why is it considered acceptable to argue that children with Down syndrome, for example, should not be born. Isn't that equally inciting discrimination? Second. How is it prevented that the application of this article is strongly influenced by social activism or fear of disorder? Concretely: Christians can be said a lot; there seems to be almost no limit to insulting statements. Criticism of Islam, however, is much more sensitive: on the one hand, from the threat of violent reactions, on the other hand, because Muslims are seen as an endangered group. Isn't this easy to measure with different sizes, which doesn't suit our rule of law? Third. In applying this provision, it seems to make a strong difference whether a group of persons is considered to be an endangered group or a threatening group. I refer again to the example of statements about Islam. But isn't it also a political judgment how that is determined? Do you, for example, see critical statements about gay marriage from the perspective of vulnerable homosexuals or from the perspective of the right to express a different view of marriage from a deeply rooted religious belief? For practice, it all matters. How is randomness to be avoided? How is the choice now made? That's what I'm asking the Minister. Fourth. This concerns the politicians. When it comes to the freedom of expression of politicians, I regularly taste two lines that easily conflict with each other. On the one hand, that is the role of example: politicians must pay even more attention to their words than other citizens. On the other hand, the line is that they need to be able to say much more, precisely in order not to compromise their controlling role. For this reason, Article 71 of the Constitution also states that members of parliament cannot be prosecuted for their statements in parliamentary debates. I would also like to hear a reflection from the Minister on this point. I'll close up and sum up. Freedom of speech is a great asset. We are in favour of a solid debate, in which there is no political correctness, but where there is a strong cross between swords on all kinds of issues. However, unnecessary harm should never be the intention. The golden rule given by Jesus is: treat others as you wish them to treat you. I still think that is a wonderful starting point. Needless to say, there's no way to defend it in that light. The tone must be set by the affection of love towards fellow human beings. Love your neighbor as yourself! If it is right, it marks our action, no matter how firm our views may or may not be. So, you're gonna tell me what it's all about? Yes. But I will end with a beautiful Bible verse: "If it is possible, as much is in you, keep peace with all people."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by joining Mr Van der Staaij's compliments to the author, Mr Van Klaveren, for coming up with this legislative initiative. I wish him and his troops, Mr Driessen, Mr Roos and Professor Zwart, every success in dealing with this bill. Freedom of expression is an undisputed, important fundamental right enshrined in our Constitution. Although the Constitution does not establish a hierarchy between the different fundamental rights, it may not be the most important for many, but it is such a fundamental fundamental right that it also affects our democratic system. In fact, freedom of expression is conditional on having an open democracy. It is only when the differences between the different views can be exchanged unhindered that a genuine debate can take place on the way in which a society should be organized and on the choices to be made. In any case, this leads the VVD Group to use the principle that freedom of expression should be reduced as little as possible. A number of exceptions are now possible; they are also laid down in the Code of Criminal Law. Article 137d punishes inciting discrimination and hatred. This is, in the opinion of the VVD Group, a justified restriction, but more restrictions are laid down in the law and more restrictions in the Code of Criminal Law. We must not forget that criminal law is the ultimate medium by which the government can influence and sanction the behaviour of citizens and thus influence them. The Code of Criminal Law contains examples of restrictions on freedom of expression which, in the opinion of the VVD, are no longer permitted, as they constitute an unnecessary restriction on freedom of expression. This was true, for example, of malicious blasphemy; that limitation has therefore disappeared from the Code of Criminal Law. For this reason, the VVD Group will support D66's initiative to remove majesty desecration from the Code of Criminal Law. In addition, we have taken the initiative to stop insulting a friendly head of state in the Code of Criminal Law as a restriction on freedom of expression. Article 137c criminalises group termination and thereby restricts freedom of expression. In this limitation, the VVD Group finds arguments for doing something about it. The main reason for this is that the individual is the starting point of liberalism. The individual takes chances and the individual takes responsibility. The individual must be given the opportunity to seize opportunities and to achieve the full realization of talents and abilities. The individual must be enabled to take responsibility. One could argue that Article 137c reduces the individual from state level to just a member of a group. This leads the VVD Group to at least understand this part of Mr Van Klaver's proposal to do something about it. However, before my group can take a final position, it still has a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u4	My progressive-liberal party also divides society into individuals, but sometimes the choice to belong or not belong to a group is not the individual. Sometimes it's genetically determined and sometimes you don't have a choice and you're forced on an identity. To what extent does the VVD intend to continue to expose the individual to insults and discrimination if that choice is limited?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr Pechtold is of course right when he says that you can belong to a group voluntarily or involuntarily. If you're offended, and that's ultimately an individual choice, there's still plenty of opportunities to stand up to. I refer to Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Law. If you feel individually offended, there is the way of civil law based on article 162, Book 6, tort. If 137c Code of Criminal Law were to be deleted, this does not mean that there are no means to stand up to insults. The point is that, in the opinion of the VVD, the provision by the public authorities of additional provisions against insulting a group is not in line with the principle that Mr Pechtold and I, and his and my party share.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u6	The VVD can see something positive in it to delete that one article. Then it represents something and it is also an extension. However, you refer to another article, which says that it gives the same protection. So it's de facto not gonna change anything. For years I have been following the VVD somewhat critically in the area of freedom of expression. Denying the Holocaust had to be possible, according to the leader, now Prime Minister, Rutte. I think we should be very careful. There are two articles that are more or less the same. If you delete one, but you don't intend to change anything about the practice, I wonder what we're actually doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u7	There is a fundamental difference between feeling offended as an individual and taking legal action on it. I have merely stated that this can now be done through a number of articles, both from the Criminal Code and from the Civil Code. I do not want to say that this should be put overboard. It is only intended to reassure Mr Pechtold. So when someone is offended, he is not without instruments to stand up to. However, the principle that you can defend yourself as a member of a group with a complaint through criminal law is contrary to the principle of individualism. I do not quite understand what the uncertainty is for Mr Pechtold if he shares that same point of departure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u8	I haven't answered my question yet. What difference will the movement of the VVD towards Van Klaveren's proposal make de facto in practice? Let me focus. Then why does it have to be out of criminal law? I have just heard that it can still lead to the same effect. Then Van Klaveren is offered an empty cap of the VVD. Or is this a serious attempt to move freedom of speech in a direction that I say: "ho!"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u9	It's up to you to decide if you're offended. The border where someone feels offended is different. It is different for everyone, so it is determined individually. The strange thing is that Article 137c assumes that an entire group may be offended. Even more remarkable is that an individual will have to file a complaint for insulting a group. That's hard to reconcile. If you assume the individual and you assume that feeling offended is an individual choice, I don't find it strange that there are legal means to argue against it. I find it less obvious that there is still a provision in the Code of Criminal Law, the most serious means available to the government, that you may feel offended as an individual for a group. I would like to take away Mr Pechtold's concern that nothing can be done about it if individuals feel individually offended. However, it is at odds that, if a group is offended, you still have to complain individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u10	It may be that that individual feels forced into that group and therefore experiences the insult. It is about that interaction, about the individual who feels restrained in his freedom, because in general, because of the stereotyping of the group, he is discriminated against or offended or whatever. That relationship is so important. It is the inability of the individual to get under the stamp that the insulter, the hate-songer or anyone else is aiming at at that moment. So that individual must defend himself against it because at that very moment it no longer has the freedom to behave as an individual among that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u11	I can only observe that this is a form of collectivist thinking that may make the difference between the liberalism that Mr Pechtold's party puts into practice and what the VVD puts into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr Taverne's statement is that an insult in a manner of speaking is an individual choice. Article 137c is deleted. That means that denying the Holocaust is now allowed by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u13	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u14	That's true. I have, of course, checked the case law. Denying the Holocaust is punished on the basis of Article 137c, because it insults the group of Jews. It's not inciting hatred, it's not inciting violence, it's a group swearing. That is why it is always punishable in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u15	I have also taken the figures of the prosecution and the case-law into account. Anti-Semitism and Holocausttontkening are often prosecuted through article 137c in conjunction with 137d. It is often done under Article 137c because it is much easier to prove. However, it is a mistake by Mr Buma that these things could be done in the Netherlands. It is also precisely the reason why the VVD sees arguments for the deletion of Article 137c, but not for the deletion of Article 137d, precisely because the VVD believes that anti-Semitism should be able to be vigorously combated through criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u16	It's not like that. I've got the verdict for me. Someone built the site that says the Holocaust was never there, and then it's explained. There's a full report coming in. The D.A.'s office is bringing that case and saying it's group swearing, spreading hate and inciting violence. Eventually, they'll be convicted of gang termination. So it's okay, unless there's something extra going on that makes it not only a group swearing, but also inciting hatred. So I'm gonna let you do this later. Mr Taverne is afraid to say it, but he is. I would like the Minister, and indeed his as a minister and a lawyer and not a political one, to answer my question as to what is happening with Article 137c. The judgment was delivered on 12 December 2004 by the Den Bosch court. Only 137c... This person may build this site from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u17	No, that's not true. Once again, this is an incorrect presentation by Mr Buma. I'm a little offended by that, too. I will not deny that there is persecution and conviction on the basis of Article 137c. That's pretty weedy, because that article is here now. That does not mean that Article 137d cannot still be prosecuted and sentenced, as is often the case in two cases. It is therefore far too short to say that, by looking at arguments for the deletion of Article 137c, anti-Semitism could take place freely in the Netherlands. On the contrary, anti-Semitism must be combated. People who deny the Holocaust are not only likely mentally ill or need help in other ways, but can still be dealt with in the Netherlands. And it has to stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u18	Let me give you another example of what Article 137c was, not 137d. Again, 137d is much less common. "I have a thousand cuub of gas ready for all Likudniks and as far as I'm concerned all Zionist pigs are locked up in death camps." The VVD may not want it, but it's gonna be okay. Come out for it. And another thing, the last thing I'd like to hear the answer to from the VVD. I'm not making it up, and it's also why I'm so incredibly against this law. How is the expression of neo-Naziism combated in the Netherlands? You may not go to a synagogue on Saturdays in the Netherlands, but certainly not on Saturdays with a swastika flag or in neonaziuniform. That's group defense. I'll let you do that later. Then the Jews will have to argue with neo-Nazis to decide who is ultimately right in the free debate. Mr Taverne may now shake no, but we can now ban demonstrations that threaten to wave neo-Nazi flags, because it is group termination. It's not an individual insult, because no individual Jew is offended by a Nazi flag. It's not hate-sowing either. It's Article 137c. Mr Taverne really makes anti-Semitism much easier, like homo-hate, hatred of disabilities and hatred of other colored people, because almost everything gets the condemnation "confession."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. Buma is a lawyer. For that reason, I am all the more surprised what he is posturing here. All the examples he cites are, in my firm belief, equally punishable on the basis of Article 137d. The fact that it may not have been applied for in some cases, or at least that it was not in the charge, does not mean that it would not be punishable under Article 137d. It does something with the burden of proof. The example in which people are offended is just as much a situation in which it might be more likely to opt for group termination, not because Article 266 of the Criminal Code could not be used. I make it clear that the VVD wants to continue to fight anti-Semitism with strength. The VVD believes that you should not be able to deny the Holocaust. The VVD still wants to leave the government the means to combat all these types of behaviour through criminal law. However, the VVD also believes that freedom of expression should be reduced as little as possible and that the restrictions imposed on it through criminal law should be limited. In any case, Article 137d and Article 137e provide sufficient scope to combat the expressions in Mr Buma's examples. I find it a dubious proposition to claim that the VVD would find this type of behavior admissible. I'm throwing that far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u20	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u21	I have not debated with Mr Taverne before, but I appreciate that if I read a ruling from a judge, I will not be told that I am just making up some ideas. Freedom of expression is broad and hate-sowing is not readily accepted. I mentioned the example of the site with the Holocausttontkening. The D.A.'s office has said that this is hate and inciting violence. Mr. Taverne is not the judge. The judge reads our law. In our law, he already reads "happily" but "holocausttontkening" is not allowed. If we mean to say that it is actually allowed until it becomes hate-sowing, that is what we have to say. Then Mr Taverne should not say that the Holocausttontkening is not allowed. Yeah, well, it's only gonna be a criminal offence if it gets worse. Then something must be added, like the circumstances. The VVD is okay with this. I want the Minister's answer that the Holocaust is denied if it is no more than that, that there are Nazi flags running around when it is no more than that and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u22	Fortunately, Mr Buma does not decide what the VVD thinks. The VVD believes that Holocausttontkening should not be allowed. The VVD Group considers that under Article 137d that type of anti-Semitic ruling can still be combated and must be combated. I take Mr Buma's argument seriously. However, I believe that it is not only on the basis of current practice that you can judge that another practice would not be effective. That's a glimpse of the future I can't give you. Nor do I want to fight against the... No, let me rephrase. The VVD believes that in order to be effective, you need some provisions. We have it now. The fact that you're making adjustments to the Criminal Code doesn't mean the effectiveness has to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u23	At exactly the same point as Mr Buma. In my speech, I indicated that this provision of collective bargaining found its roots in the thirties: it was better to combat anti-Semitism. That's what it started once. Why, then, does Mr Taverne, the VVD, take the life-size risk, and I say it very carefully that it is becoming much more difficult to combat anti-Semitism and Holocausttont exploration? He himself states: yes, 137c is easier to prove than 137d. That is what we saw in legal practice. Then why on earth say: I don't know how it works either, but I think it's still gonna work out? Why take a chance on such an important subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u24	The VVD Group believes that it is not such a big gamble, also in view of the current practice. Both 137c and 137d are deployed. There will simply continue to be prosecuted for the type of expressions that I believe we are all hoping for. The VVD is of the opinion that freedom of expression, as Mr Van der Staaij has said, is such a fundamental right that you should limit it as little as possible. You have to find a balance in that all the time. In response to Mr Pechtold, I explained that the purely collective insult is an interpretation of the individual who is not ours. I maintain that there are sufficient means of redress to combat everything that we believe should be combated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr Taverne's answer is actually: I trust that everything will be all right. Mr. Buma is a lawyer, so am I. We have seen the same case law, and I do not have that confidence at all. 137c is much easier to apply, for example in such a cartoon with the text: the Jews invented the Holocaust. That's just been punished on the basis of 137c. We are simply giving it away. Why are you taking that chance? Mr Taverne says: we think not in groups but in individuals. That's nice. Then VVDs will not be guilty of violating the article, because they only insult individuals and not groups. But there are a lot of individuals in this country who do insult groups. Then you still have to be able to act against that. What is Mr Taverne's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u26	I believe that this will still be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u27	So what is the enormous importance that is served by abolishing this article? Just name a few cases where you say that Article 137c is being applied far too easily; that really has to be different; there needs to be more freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u28	I can only repeat what I said earlier. The VVD considers that the remedies available still allow this type of behaviour to be addressed. The case law as I read it shows that too. It is quite wrong to say here that the VVD apparently likes all kinds of horrible expressions. Not at all. But the restriction of freedom of expression on the basis of groups is one where we see arguments for getting there. That's what we're in. I am curious to hear the answers of the author to some of our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u29	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u30	I do not have any doubts about Mr Taverne's intentions, but I just wonder why on earth you want to do a grip in the toolbox with finely sharpened tools, which can be very useful, if you want to fight anti-Semitism. In order to understand it, I would like to hear just one example of a ruling by a judge on the basis of 137c, which Mr Taverne says was not allowed to do so until now, which has been punished, but it must now be given freedom. One example, please. Then I understand you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u31	We're not going through all kinds of cases, at least I'm not. You can do it. The starting point is that freedom of expression is reduced as little as possible, so only where this is strictly necessary. That's what keeps the VVD going. I repeat what I said. We see arguments on the basis of which Article 137c could be amended. I am curious to hear the answers to the questions I will be asking in a moment. I need those answers to make a final judgment. I do not share the view that by doing so we are putting all the instruments aside, so that anti-Semitism is given free rein. On the contrary, I have sufficient confidence in our case law and in the provisions which will continue to serve the justice system that this terrible behaviour can be punished, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u32	I've lost my touch, too. I fully agree with what Mr Buma has just said. We can have this discussion as a study room discussion, but we can also look at the social problems that exist. I do not know whether Mr Taverne is in favour of deleting the Rule or whether he feels any sympathy for it. Maybe he can go into that a little more closely. We're talking about deleting the article that punishes group termination. This article seems to be widely used in practice by the judges. If Mr Taverne has confidence in the rule of law, then he must also consider it important. It's about stopping demonization of groups that eventually lead to an individual being attacked because he's a member of that group. So it's not the other way around. I ask Mr Taverne to look at the real world outside and the problems that exist from hate and discrimination to violence. What is the solution, according to the VVD, to ensure that this article is widely used by judges to act in a standard manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u33	Maybe it's good to bring to the attention of the public that we're talking about insult. It seems that some Members want to make it appear as if Article 137c is also about discrimination and inciting hatred. That's not true. It's about insult. That is precisely why the VVD believes that Articles 137d and 137e should be maintained. These are justified restrictions on freedom of expression. They are important tools for combating anti-Semitism, hate-stowing and what is more. Article 137c is about insulting. Whether you're offended is an individual choice. I think we should make this distinction right. In reply to Mr Marcouch's question, the VVD is sensitive to the arguments put forward by the authors. We're still working on the first term. We're just getting started, aren't we? I have a number of questions that I want answered before we make a final judgment. It is about insulting, and that is really something other than inciting discrimination and hatred. If we maintain that in the Code of Criminal Law, it is a heavy tool for something that has not only left the individual point of departure, but also ultimately for individuals to answer the question of whether they feel offended. Criminal law is the most serious means available to the State, and it is a question of whether we should use it for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u34	I don't think we're gonna get out of this. Mr Taverne keeps repeating what he has just said. The fact is that in recent years, the judge has used this article on group defense the most to act in a normative manner against anti-Semitism, homo-hate and so on. This is an instrument that judges use to set standards against these kinds of expressions. Finally, Mr Taverne argues that he is liberal and that the individual is important. That's why he only wants to look at the individual. If Mr Taverne is so reasoning and only looking at the individual in criminal law, will he not allow a member of a group to be convicted as a criminal because he is a member of a group? That is also a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u35	The VVD does not look at one's origins, but at one's future and at one's individual qualities. The VVD also believes that it is crucial for the existence and survival of an open democracy that also views that are annoying, insulting and unbelievable to hear are of a different order than discrimination or sow hatred. Again, I think it's a mistake to throw those two into one heap. It is precisely in order to get all the differences on the surface that it is important that there are as few restrictions as possible, other than the justified restrictions we have talked about before. In that sense, therefore, Mr Marcouch and I differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u36	If I understand the complex reasoning of the VVD correctly, one of the objections to group termination is that an individual still has to make the declaration. Surely the VVD doesn't suggest that we get a group declaration and that the problem is solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u37	No. That seems to me to be a development in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u38	Then that is not an argument against the article on group termination, because also declarations relating to the endangerment of state danger and all such things are brought by an individual, whether that is the Public Prosecutor's Office or someone exercising his right to complain. That is not, therefore, an argument against maintaining group termination. In my view, it is one of two: whether we do not have enough freedom of expression and therefore 137c must die, or whether we have enough freedom of expression and there are justified limits to it. Mr Taverne himself said that nothing really changes in reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u39	We are assessing a proposal from a colleague here and we are doing so on the merits of the proposal. At least that's what the VVD does. Mrs Van Tongeren rightly states that both individual insults, as described in Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Law, and group termination should be individually declared. But in the case of group termination, you do so in such a way that the whole group apparently feels insulted in the same way. If someone's offended and wants to report it, they can still do it. Then the same procedure applies as in group termination, but this is more in line with the premise that people can be individually offended. Then, in a case of individual insult, they can have the judge decide whether their case is justified and whether there should be a sanction. The starting point that you can speak individually or with a number of people for an entire group is less appealing to the VVD. Mrs Van Tongeren and I certainly differ in that regard. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u40	It is not so much a difference of opinion as a lack of logic. If freedom of expression in the eyes of the VVD is unjustly restricted by Article 137c at the moment, something should be changed, but if Mr Taverne gets questions about this, he says that nothing really changes and that we still have those other articles. That's why I'm saying it's two-and-a-half. Either the VVD is standing up for freedom of speech, which is now unduly restricted, or Mr Taverne is hanging on to a story that the entire opposition is now poking holes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u41	Now I would like to reassure my fellow Members who are concerned that people who feel offended would seem to be no longer serving any legal remedy, and then it is not good again, because then nothing will change. I can only repeat it: the starting point that you may feel offended as a group is a view that is not consistent with the starting point of the individual of the VVD. And as far as insult is concerned, I repeat that insult is really something other than discrimination and hatred and that we believe that there is reason to look critically at such an article. It's not new that we think so. And there is now a proposal for it, and I think it is right that we should look at it that way. Soon we'll hear the answers, then we'll continue the treatment and then we'll make a final judgment. But the VVD really thinks that the government should minimize your ability to choose your words and give your opinion. I hope that Mrs Van Tongeren agrees with me that these opportunities are crucial in Dutch, open society. If there are provisions in the Code of Criminal Law which may not limit them at all times, we should take a critical look at them. That seems very sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u42	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u43	I'm glad to hear that my colleague from the VVD is backing down a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u44	Well, she doesn't hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr Buma has just read out a number of statements. In Mr Taverne's view, it is necessary to consider whether an individual is offended by these expressions, and that must be taken into account against the interests of freedom of expression. Then we are a long way from a peaceful society where we have a normal, open, democratic debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr Taverne has just made it quite clear that the VVD is against denying the Holocaust and anti-Semitism and discrimination. The question then remains why the VVD and Mr Taverne may want to abolish, restrict or amend the article most commonly used by the Public Prosecutor's Office. 80% of all discrimination offences are related to 137c. It is not quite clear to me exactly what the VVD wants to do with the article, but why do they want to change it if it plays the most important role in prosecuting these types of crimes in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u47	First of all, and for the record, I would like to say this. The VVD, like my fellow Members, is in the process of debating an initiative proposal by Mr Van Klaveren. It's not a VVD proposal. There is also another bill from Mr Bosma, which is also about this. It seems obvious to me that we have views and questions about this. And I know the numbers and I also recognize that Article 137c is being used a lot. But when it comes to anti-Semitism, Article 137c is not the only article. I am convinced that 137th of the serious statements made by Mr Van Nispen is equally effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u48	Mr Taverne may say that, think, hope or expect, but the practice is now that in 80% of discriminatory cases 137c plays an important role. So the question is whether you're not taking any chances with this. The question is also whether Mr Taverne, like Mr Van der Staaij, has indeed studied the history of Article 137c. He says he does. It was established in the 1930s to stop the emerging anti-Semitism. We finally saw where that led. At the time there were urgent reasons to introduce this article. If you know and take that history seriously, why does the VVD no longer believe that these reasons apply today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr Van Nispen also knows the history of Article 137c. The text in 1934 was a different one than it is now. There was no reference to race or gender. It was put in much more general terms. That's for starters. Legal practice shows that Article 137d is an effective means. It's about insult. I can't say it enough. That is something else, I say to Mr Van Nispen and to the others, rather than inciting discrimination or hatred. That's of a different order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u50	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u51	Of course, this remains incredibly unclear. Mr Taverne says 'that is of a different order'. Yeah, I get the difference, too. We've all studied the difference. Mr Taverne says that practice shows that 137d and 137e are also effective resources. Well, it's just a few cases a year, I can tell Mr. Taverne. 137c is the effective tool. So the question remains why you want to take a risk with that. There's a much more important question. Of course, we are in debate, we are going to get answers and we are going to get the Minister's advice, but we are also having a debate here with the VVD, among ourselves. That's how it works here, isn't it? If the VVD says that it wants to mortify Article 137c, it is something more than a non-binding question from "gosh, what would you think if?'. The VVD is very clearly talking here about amending or even abolishing Article 137c. I like to hear it. What are Mr Taverne's thoughts going for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u52	To a great many, but at the moment in particular to the answers to the questions that I am so anxious to put to the author. In my view, these are all answers which, in the light of the comments made by my fellow Members here, they would also like to hear, to questions which they undoubtedly still have. This is a very important but also extremely sensitive subject. I have indicated that the VVD sees arguments for doing something about Article 137c and insists that Article 137d should continue to exist, because that is a justified restriction on freedom of expression. Then I would very much have liked to have succeeded in putting a number of questions to the author today, who could ultimately help the VVD Group to reach a final verdict. Now I understand that colleagues want to conduct the VVD in a certain direction in advance, but I do not really think that this is appropriate to the seriousness of this issue, because I also need the answers of the author to questions that Mr Van Nispen and others have. It's the first term, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u53	Mr Van Nispen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u54	I mean, you can't just sit here and say uncompromisingly punitive things about Article 137c, can you? Look, I'll ask questions, too. I will also ask the question: if you want to delete the article, why do you not opt for clarification? But Mr Taverne is doing something completely different. He said, on behalf of the VVD Group, that the Rule could be amended or even abolished. That's what Mr. Taverne started with. Asking questions, fine, for that is a debate and we can always hide behind it, but to pretend that this is a weird debate technique and that we want to put the VVD in a corner... Well, if that is the case, Mr Taverne himself has maneuvered into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u55	Yeah, I'm sure you do, but I'd like to be quoted. I said that the VVD sees arguments for doing something about Article 137c. Mr Van Nispen accuses me of being very firm. I would like to be firm, but I think, for my part, I am quite nuanced on this subject. I would really like to hear the answers from the proposers for a final judgment. That's how it works in this house. I'm pretty sure that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u56	I started this round with a few just interested questions to the VVD spokesperson. The VVD spokesperson who, when in the country, is announced as "the spokesperson of freedom and expression."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u57	Oh, really? Where?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u58	This was in Zaanstad, at a political cafe. What do we see of the largest government group, the Prime Minister's group, the Prime Minister who said that the Holocausttontkenning should be possible? Today it is said smoothly after so many years 'no should not be possible'; I would like to get an explanation on this too. We see the VVD in the media everywhere saying: adjust that article about group swearing; we are open to that. What we see is the painful decline of a VVD spokesperson who, fearing the electoral competition of a seat robber from the PVV, who was once again a seat robber from the VVD, is putting a bit of essential things in the wind here. What does the VVD want to change by throwing the article on group termination on the table here, as if this is some kind of cozy family conversation, and saying: maybe we can get rid of that? What exactly is the spokesperson of the VVD, who has been managing this portfolio for almost five years now, going to do when he says that Article 137c can be put in the trash?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr Pechtold mentions a wealth of arguments and views. Oh, my gosh, where do I start? It's a personal attack. At least he's gonna get in there with his leg stretched. In short, I'm the last...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u60	It wasn't a group oath.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u61	No, that's true. But I could possibly experience it as a group swearing, because it insults a group, namely the VVD. However, I think I am the last member of the VVD Group to accuse Mr Pechtold of actions aimed at elections and electorate. But apart from that, I think it is appropriate for a spokesperson to continue thinking about what restrictions on freedom of expression might be subject to revision. The D66 Group obviously takes a different view and prefers that we limit more rather than less. This is not in line with a number of other proposals, but well, then it is only about Mr Pechtold's hobby horse, the royal family. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr President, it is not a debate club here!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u63	No, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u64	I'm coming back to the microphone because I asked two questions. In 2009, Rutte said that denying the Holocaust should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr. Pechtold...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u66	I just want an answer to the question whether the VVD still thinks that denying the Holocaust should be possible. We've all been on the assumption of that for six years, but now I'm hearing today...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u67	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u68	The second question is: if the VVD here is going to publicly philosophize about deleting an article on group termination, we want an example, because we all say...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u69	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u70	... that in 80% of the cases this article is the correct one. Those are my two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u71	Mr Taverne had the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u72	I have already answered Mr Pechtold's first question in response to another. We live in a time other than 2009. The starting point must be... In my view, Mr Pechtold cannot disagree with me that anti-Semitism must be combated in any form whatsoever. People who make statements that are a flagrant violation of history must be able to be addressed. Perhaps they even need psychic assistance, because no one in his right mind will make such claims. There are bookcases full of the horrors of that time. It's very weird and especially sick when people deny it. Mr Pechtold knows that the VVD is very far and very far away from that, but the VVD is the party to freedom of expression. The position of the VVD will be determined after a debate. I have just indicated that the VVD, on the basis of the legislative proposal now before us and which we are now debating, sees arguments for considering whether Article 137c should continue to exist in its current form. I don't think there's a word of Spanish in there. I also said that Article 137d should be maintained, because we need effective means to deal with all kinds of horrible statements and all kinds of horrible behaviour. Mr Pechtold may try to make something different from what it is, but this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u73	Finally, Mr Pechtold, because I can see that we are really repeating ourselves. Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u74	But we can expect a little more clarity from the representative of the largest government party, can't we? I ask two specific questions. What was different in 2009 with regard to anti-Semitism than in 2016, which made Rutte say in 2009 that denying the Holocaust should be possible, but the VVD in 2016, just before the elections, suddenly very panic calls that anti-Semitism is of course a big problem? My second point is that the deletion of Article 137c on group termination is in 80% of cases that the main reason to be able to prosecute is presented by the VVD today as a possibility. Mr Taverne says that there are reasons to delete that article. But anyone who asks him to make that concrete doesn't hear anything. So I would like to know what the difference is between the world of 2009 and 2016 when it comes to anti-Semitism, and on what specific grounds you could delete Article 137c.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u75	One difference is that prior to 2009, Gregory Nekschot was arrested on May 13, 2008. Shortly before that, a CDA Minister of Justice suggested reinvigorating evil blasphemy. These are all examples of a restriction on freedom of expression using Article 137c. That's different than it is now. It has never been, for anyone, the question was whether you should fight anti-Semitism less punishment. Not at all. At present, other terrible expressions are made, such as showing IS flags in the Schilderswijk. If it encourages discrimination or hatred, we can continue to do so. And I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u76	It is still not clear to me why, at a time of emerging anti-Semitism, Article 137c should be applied or why the article should be amended. Part of the emotion on this side of the Chamber stems from the fact that we see anti-Semitism alive and well. The point is that being a member of a group, that is to say being Jewish, is reason to be offended or dishonored. We are not talking about the application of the law, but about the content of the law. When did 137c bet exclusively and was that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u77	I am not saying that it is wrong; that is not at all the discussion. If you walk past the list of restrictions on freedom of expression, you will see that we have already deleted a number in the past, that we intend to delete another one, and that that fits with maintaining a society based on freedom of expression and on combating discrimination and the sowing of hatred. A distinction must also be made between insulting, and spreading hate and discrimination. Today we can only talk about the most horrible forms of discriminatory and hateful expressions. But of course there is much more to insult. I recalled the 2008 cases and their consequences. We now have a provision that can also be used in other ways. I see it as my task as co-legislator to look critically at provisions restricting freedom of expression. I would still very much like to try again and ask some questions and get answers before I can make a final judgment. I can't make it anything other than this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u78	The burden of proof lies on the side of the person who wants to change something. The D66 Group wants to change the criminality of majesty desecration. I remember when Mr Van Tongeren, following a case in which there was an action against someone who held up a sign with texts that were offensive to the royal family, said that she did not agree and we should therefore amend the law. Then you say on the basis of a concrete case, the functioning of the law, its application, that you don't want something. I do not agree with the D66 and GroenLinks groups on this point, but you have a debate on that. However, the burden of proof lies with the person who wants to change. Mr Taverne wants to change 137c. Now point out a case in which Article 137c is exclusive and we should not want that with each other. When did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u79	Mr Segers pretends to be my initiator in trade union K. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u80	You're suggesting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u81	No, I'm nothing. I said that we have looked at this proposal and that, unlike Article 137d, we see arguments for amending Article 137c. Then the normal course is for you to ask questions about it and for us to have a debate on it afterwards, but Mr Segers and almost everyone else are pretending that I made up an initiative law of my own. That's not true. My point is that it's insults, and the starting point is that you're offended because you happen to be part of a group. We pretend that this is the very last resort to prevent the most horrible hate speech we can freely make. It's not. In short, there is an image that is far from reality. I'm fine with everyone trying to rub that on me. That's very good, but it's not. In the Code of Criminal Law, again: the strongest means of influencing and sanctioning the behaviour of citizens is assumed to be purely part of a group. The VVD really thinks that this ignores the premise that the individual is responsible for his own actions and fate. That is an important argument to consider whether, on this basis, you should allow a criminal restriction of freedom of expression to exist. In the light of the written procedure, I have questions about the views of the proposers. I'd like to ask those questions, and then we're gonna make a judgment call later. It is not the case that the VVD made this proposal. This proposal is from Mr Van Klaveren; at first there was also a proposal from Mr Bosma. We are talking about this because we all want to be informed before we can take a political group position. I just really want to continue asking questions about this. That is my answer to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u82	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u83	That was not an answer to my question. This is not an academic exercise in which we have a number of options on the table that we walk along a bit: what would be a nice article? We are talking about a genuinely existing article, which is already in the Code of Criminal Law, namely Article 137c. If the VVD says that it can be adjusted or deleted, the burden of proof lies there. If I ask where and how that article was used wrongly, it will remain silent and there will be no answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u84	I've said it's actually quite extraordinary that you feel offended just on the basis that you belong to a group. We've talked about that before. Now there's a proposal. It'd be weird if we didn't find that anymore. I have a number of questions, which I hope will be answered to later, but the starting point is that a liberal party, a truly liberal party, is asking whether the fact that people feel offended is ultimately an individual choice, which is actually the right basis for sanctioning through criminal law and whether that basis should continue to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u85	Mr Buma, I see you have the Code of Criminal Law with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u86	That is almost true, but I also think you should prepare yourself a little bit for a debate like this, while I, as chairman of the group, also deal with other things. Mr Taverne is just making total nonsense. He doesn't do that here as an individual, but on behalf of the VVD. If the VVD, which calls for it to know so much about freedom of expression, comes up with this nonsense, it simply should not talk about that whole theme anymore. It doesn't make any sense. I'll give you one example; that's why I brought this book. Mr Taverne constantly says that it is insulting, not discrimination. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u87	Yes, correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u88	I'll just grab it. Everyone who does this kind of debate has this around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u89	Can you go to the other microphone, where you can step on the foot pedal? That's easier to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u90	Yeah, I don't take this book that often, but since that's what it's all about right now, I do it now. This is the first sentence of the explanatory memorandum to Article 137c. Mr Taverne calls all the time: you have all kinds of arguments and so on. However, I am not making this up: 'This article is part of a series of offences, 137c to 137g, in which a specific form of insult, namely discrimination, is punishable'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u91	Yes, very good. That is also stated in 137d. You'll have to take that with you. May I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u92	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u93	I thought that Mr Buma and Mr Pechtold were doing the same; that is all very well and always wanted to have a civilised debate. I take his arguments seriously, but if he is going to stand here and accuse me of gibberish, it will be a bit difficult to take the rest of his arguments too seriously. I do, because he is an eminent Member of this Chamber, but I do wish my arguments to be taken into account, and he cannot agree with that, because that is not how we know Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u94	I am only strengthening what I said earlier about the way in which Mr Taverne is acting. I have a second point, on which many questions have already been asked, but the answer does not come out. Mr Taverne felt on behalf of the VVD, although it was a bit in the air, that there might be reasons to amend the article on the important issue of discrimination, anti-Semitism and so on. You can think about it forever. Mr Taverne is talking about 2009. In 2010 I negotiated with the VVD and with Mr Driessen on behalf of the PVV on exactly this point. Actually, this bill is a follow-up to those coalition negotiations. At that time, the VVD representative strongly suggested that Article 137c should be deleted. That was six years ago. The world hasn't really changed since then. Neck shot was before that. The murder of Theo van Gogh was before that. The tension was already there. Nothing's changed. It's only gotten worse. Then the VVD wanted to get rid of Article 137c very clearly. What's changed since then? Or is it still true, but doesn't the VVD dare anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u95	Firstly, Mr Buma agrees that the VVD is consistent when critical of Rule 137c. I wasn't in those conversations, so I'd like to take that from Mr Buma. Maybe it's a bit old-fashioned, but I'm just following the premise that if we debate an initiative law in the first place, there's an opportunity to question the initiators after the written round. That is why I expressed myself as I did, namely that there are arguments for critically looking at Article 137c. It's starting to make everyone clap and hyperventilate. That's possible, but it's not easier than that. At the end of the second term, you decide what the final position is. Mr Buma can blow off the tower incredibly high and say all sorts of bad things. That's what he has to do, but this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u96	But if the initiative law was not there, then you should also consider what you want with Article 137c.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u97	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u98	And you knew that in 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u99	Yes, but we now have a proposal from Mr Van Klaveren to deal with. You have noticed that we have not yet put a third proposal on top of that and that in recent years freedom of expression has not been restricted in a way that CDA Ministers of Justice tried to do at the time. Now this is there and you judge that on his merits at this time. To be honest, I expect that from all my colleagues. Those may not be the answers people want to hear here, but it is my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u100	I would suggest that you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u101	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. I shall then be able to put the questions to the author, which I very much appreciate. I have a few more questions, as announced. In 2014, the ban on narrowing blasphemy was abolished. During the debate in the First Chamber on the bill on this subject, the Writer's motion became c.s. Adopted. It calls on the government to examine whether a possible amendment to the Code of Criminal Law can protect religious minorities from severely offensive statements without unnecessarily restricting the functioning of freedom of expression. The investigation of the WODC that followed in 2014 concluded that both the extension and tightening of the Code of Criminal Law were not necessary. How does the initiator assess the conclusions of this study? In the context of inciting hatred and inciting discrimination, I ask the initiator how he looks at the phenomenon of IS flags. Does he share the view of the VVD Group that it should be punishable under circumstances? Then why does the initiator want to deprive the prosecution of an instrument in the fight against jihadism and radical Islam? The same goes for the hate preachers. Of course, we do not think we should let them in. But if, for example, imams of Dutch soil actively incite hatred and discrimination, doesn't the initiator think that this is a reason to have them prosecuted? Here too, the public prosecutor is deprived of a potential instrument. Can the initiator give an estimate of the likelihood of such cases occurring, so that the prosecution and the court can no longer intervene in the fight against jihadism? Why does the initiator think that this is desirable? Then I come to the so-called chilling effect. The initiator states that citizens are no longer able to express themselves freely because they are afraid of being prosecuted for gang crimes, inciting hatred and discrimination. The initiator refers in the note to the report on numerous opinion makers and cabaretists who have pointed this out. Can the initiator give recent examples of this? What cabaretists have been prosecuted over the last three years for gangeering or for inciting hatred, or discrimination? Those were my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u102	I call Mrs Van Tongeren. Mr. Kuzu, then you should really...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u103	I waited until the end of the argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr Taverne has been here for an hour, Mr Kuzu. I'm sorry, then you should really...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u105	I waited until the end of the speech, Mr President. I have to come all the way from behind. I would like to put a question to Mr Taverne. Mr Buma says he must remain seated. I would appreciate it if I could question the VVD on this important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u106	No, no, no, no, no, no. Sorry, I'm sorry. You will have an opportunity to ask questions on the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the author, Mr Van Klaveren, and his support. Mr Roos was silenced during the debate on freedom of expression. I wish him every success and hope to meet him at another time in the debate in this Chamber. I think this is the most desirable thing for both of us right now. The right of initiative is an important parliamentary achievement which is rather difficult to put into practice. After all, it is much easier to turn your supporters in a Hague cafe somewhere in March 2014 to chant, to shout in the media that it is not fair for you to be held accountable for your statements criminally, to declare the judiciary crazy in a conviction and to predict that the Dutch people will remember well who was on the right side of history. "Three PPV-hating judges declare Moroccans a race and condemn me and half the Netherlands crazy"; a tweet that sharpens the trias politician. That is why Mr Van Klaveren deserves our compliments. He does what a parliamentarians should do, he writes a law when he thinks the margins for freedom of expression are too tight and he submits them to colleagues. That is how it works in a rule of law, in which the separation of powers guarantees independence, democratic legitimacy and professional objectivity. GroenLinks uses the Voltaire doctrine: although I reject your views, I will defend your freedom to express them. That was one of the first things before I entered the House of Representatives, which I heard from our group chairman at the time, Femke Halsema, who explained that to fire and sword, together with Mr Pechtold of D66, in all kinds of debates in various ways. That's still GroenLinks' doctrine. History teaches us that social change does not come naturally. The right to express your opinion freely was fought on reactionary powers in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Our western achievements are due to transversal lighting philosophers who did not comply with the age-long status quo that determines your origin and that the house or body in which you were born determines how far you can open your mouth. One of the things that struck me in this debate for a moment is that I, together with the President, represent the smallest minority of the participants in this debate in this Chamber. They're looking up strangely now, but I'm talking about the contestants. Have you heard of it? This is also mentioned in some human rights treaties. I will continue my speech. But especially that, if I may say what I want, another has the same freedom. The PVV has trouble with the fact that the group of women...? The chairman says I can't respond to the entrapment. I'll do that nicely. Freedom of expression applies to all of us, including, for example, the orthodox imam, the pastor or the reverend, who has difficulty accepting homosexuality, questioning equality between men and women or other, totally outdated ideas for us. The fundamental right of freedom of expression is currently limited only by the acts of expression contained in the Code of Criminal Law, which has already been discussed extensively in the debates on interruptions such as defamation, insult, discrimination and inciting hatred. We draw the sharp line at statements that incite hatred, make unjustified distinctions and violence. You can find anything, you just can't do it. What you don't want to happen doesn't happen to anyone else. And you always show your willingness to have your expressed views tested in the decent conversation by whomever else thinks about it. GroenLinks is not all dirty with controversy. No shine without friction, but it should not be scratches. Threatened opinion-formers such as politicians and columnists should be supported and protected, and so should the student or student who, because of his or her background, does not find an internship. It is only in this way that the precarious balance between freedom of expression and freedom of conscience and the right to be who you are or become, on the other hand, can be maintained peacefully. The murders of politician Pim Fortuyn, the social-critical filmmaker Theo van Gogh, the Ogoni environmental activist Ken Saro-Wiwa, the 85 social-democratic young people on the Norwegian island Utøya in 2011 and the Indonesian palm oil activist Jopi Peranginangin who was murdered last year are too fresh in memory, as are the serious threats to Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Ebru Umar and Sylvana Simons and the constant threat to Mr Wilders. Even in the Netherlands, it is not easy to make use of your freedom of expression. Anyone who threatens to disrupt royal parties, for example through a demonstration, has a great chance of being caught preventively. Yesterday, for example, it was announced that the anti-Wilders protesters in Spijkenisse earlier this year, were unjustly arrested. At a demonstration, you can't arrest someone for a co-operation ban, that's how the justice department judged. Minister Van der Steur swore, however, that the arrest was allowed. I would like to hear in his reply how he now looks back on his earlier remarks. Then there is the proposal for an own-initiative report. Mr Van Klaveren proposes a substantial increase in freedom of expression. He removes the criminalisation of group swearing and inciting hatred and discrimination. Only inciting violence remains a criminal offence. Van Klaveren goes against the parliamentary trend to further restrict freedom of expression. Our colleague from the Christian Union is in favour of criminalising genocide denial and the CDA wants the condolence or glorification of terrorism in the Code of Criminal Law. This morning we also heard on the radio a call from the CDA to increase the penalties. I see nodding, so I heard it right. I ask Mr Van Klaveren how his group relates to, for example, the denial of the Armenian genocide and the relativization of 9/11. Our Prime Minister felt a few years ago that the history books should not be used to fight this kind of crazy view. It is, of course, true that the history books also have to do so, but this denies the danger that people will be turned against each other by means of a wider freedom of expression. What is Mr Van Klaver's view of the assessment framework, which has been crystallised by the European Court of Human Rights? Even views that are "offend, shock or disturb" are protected provided they are not "gratuitously offensive." Does Mr Van Klaveren also think that even freedom of expression requires a level playing field and that it matters very much whether you are kicking the power, the government, the cabinet or other guardians of authority, or whether you are targeting minorities in society who are less able to defend themselves against offensive, discriminatory and hateful challenges? A particular point is the international legal context. This initiative proposal conflicts with treaty obligations in decriminalising inciting hatred and discrimination. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the Council of State has come up with a very impressive legal paper on why decriminalisation of expression offences is not so simple. Mr Van Klaveren blames the Council of State for not supporting his position. It is then enough to say that international bodies should only be in line with his approach. That is not persuasive and I express myself diplomatically. I am therefore curious to see whether Mr Van Klaveren's term will be as elegant and convincing as that of the Council of State. Does Mr Van Klaveren fully recognise that not only freedom of expression but also respect for the equality of everyone is a foundation of the democratic rule of law? Does he recognize, bearing in mind the Council of State, that freedom of expression never enjoy absolute protection, but that a precise balance must always be made between all the interests involved? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Finally. It is clear that GroenLinks has great difficulty with this initiative legislative proposal. Apart from the question of whether this can be done internationally, we wonder whether Dutch society is doing a good service if we abandon the principle that controversial expressions must be assessed in the light of the specific circumstances of the case. This gives the criminal justice court the opportunity to differentiate according to the purpose of the expression and the context in which it was made. The law has racial and ethnic minorities to protect, without denying the performers of extreme views access to public and political debate. In view of the right of all citizens to equal treatment, access to and conduct of the public debate must be guaranteed and monitored. These access rules are described by the Amsterdam politicians and philosophers Maussen and Fennema in the H.J. Shoe-reading. I thought this was a very nice piece on freedom of expression. The title is: Does freedom of expression also apply to racists? Those rules mean that violence is not encouraged, that citizens are not called upon to be excluded from public debate and decision-making and that the opponent is always recognised as human. I am very curious to see how Mr Van Klaveren's proposal relates to these rules of debate and whether such a decent debate is still possible if, for example, the worst forms of anti-Semitic garbage disposal in the 1930s are given free rein as far as he is concerned. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u108	Mr. Chairman. This bill is a historic mistake. The Dutch are not waiting for more insults or more hate-sowing. The Dutch don't want to insult more, but less, not more hate sows, but less. We live in a society where there is tension. That tension needs to be reduced, not more. Gay hatred, anti-Semitism, racism, discrimination: we must fight these things, not make them easier. As Mr Pechtold has just said, 80% of the convictions on this issue are based on the article that criminalizes group termination, which is 137c. I wonder if all those politicians who are so happy about this proposal and the authors are aware of what they are doing. Soon neo-Nazis with swastika flags will be able to move to a synagogue. The swastika flag is prohibited on the basis of 137c. Only when there's more, will it be 137d. I see Mr Van Klaveren shaking no, but he is wrong. Why is it always forbidden in the Netherlands to go into the streets with Nazi flags or Nazi uniforms? Because we have 137c. What can you yell at when you have those Nazi flags? I already mentioned the example of Jew hatred. I have another example of an anti-Semitic text which led to a condemnation on the basis of Article 137c and not 137d. That's what you're gonna say later. And don't tell me it's not, because this was done by the district attorney as 137c, d and e and the conviction was c. The text: "In short, it is time again to lock Jewish ghetism & their followers in camps and let them die like stray dogs. #PVV'. This expression, which was made on Twitter, has led to a conviction. But because it's not a direct outburst to violence, it has to go much further and farther, read the case-law one time, it's brought to Article 137c. I don't want this to be allowed. This law will make it possible. I'd be happy to make all the statements if the author doesn't believe it himself. Who will protect the Jews from this kind of hatred? Who's gonna protect the gays from this kind of hate, or the handicapped? Do you think they should start calling me back? Should they debate with the neo-Nazis? Can you imagine? Free debate is good, but insulting is not a debate. That's what's gonna put people in tribulation. What should be done at such a time is that we, as legislators, protect that minority. That is what the law is for, precisely because we cannot expect them to say to those people 'fuck you all', that they are going to debate their wrongs with those people. Take, for example, the denial of the Holocaust. There is no point in having a debate on this because the purpose of the debate is clear. No, we have banned this in the Netherlands because we have an experience from the past. Surely it is not the case that we now find this experience so far away in the past that we do not think it is playing like this anymore? I told you, if the bill goes through, it's okay to hate gays. 'Cause it's okay to sow hate. I'll give you an example of a conviction based on paragraph c, and in this case d, of something that will be allowed later: "In Raqqa you get free flying lessons from IS as gay! And all without wings or an airplane! All gays can sign up." I'm glad I'm living in a rule of law in which the judge protects the gays from these kinds of texts. Another one: "Homosexuality is a reprehensible, abnormal, perverse and sickly anomaly, it is detrimental to humanity, it is unnatural and it threatens humanity with extinction as it spreads." This has led to a conviction based on insult and hate speech. You can do this later. Not in my rule of law, but in the petitioner's. Soon a hate imam can come to the Netherlands. He can call this. You can convict this now. He can't rely on his faith now. This is hate-sowing and no one can sow hate-sowing. Soon he will come to the Netherlands and what should the government do? The government has to protect him from intrusive gays because he uses his rightful freedom of speech. That's ridiculous, really ridiculous. For who stands when hate images come to the Netherlands, in the front with written questions and tattering about the radio? That is Mr Van Klaveren, that is Mr Bosma, that is Mr Wilders. Now toughly shouting that the hate images are not allowed to come to the Netherlands, and later I have the examples of the questions in which before the hate image arrives, it is said that he should not come and should not get a visa, and the minister should give him a visa, because he is not doing anything criminal anymore. Only when he calls for violence will that be the case. I can tell you that the number of convictions for calls for violence is minimal, because freedom of expression goes very far in the Netherlands. Before it is assumed that something is really a call for violence, it must really be a call for violence. In short: you make anti-gay texts, anti-Jewish texts, texts against disabled people, texts against everyone much easier, at a time when you yourself say it is too much. You know what I think? I am so terrified that this is only because they/we think we should be able to say something about Muslims. We have to be able to talk about this in solid lyrics. Think about the judge's ruling last week. And if we can say something, if we choose to call for all of this, the consequence is that the other one can say the same. The law is the same for everyone. If a MP is allowed to insult gays or Muslims, then a radical Muslim may insult gays. It's no different. Otherwise, you won't have the rule of law. What about denying the Holocaust? Fortunately, this has been prohibited in the Netherlands since the war, because we know how bad it is, because we still live in the realization that 6 million Jews have been murdered. That's why we don't have to get on top of it yet, which makes it hate-sowing. But what does the VVD say? Mark Rutte said it already in 2009: yes, then you go into the debate. I'm glad we still have that law. So let's keep it. Group insults did not come into the law for nothing in the 1930s, when Jews were threatened and offended. Apparently, the legislator understood at the time that only insult or group swearing can be the first step towards violence. Even then, it was a time of unhealthy threats. Then the legislator understood that you need the means of insult to stop later unrest and later violence. Since then, no one has managed to delete that article. In fact, in 2004 that was not a world ago either; I was already in the Lower House of Parliament, this article was extended by a unanimous Chamber, including the VVD and including Geert Wilders, then still a member of the VVD. Why? We added "disability" because we felt unanimously that insulting because of a disability should not be allowed. I say to Mr Taverne that this can be an individual disabled person. This is indeed an individual article. It could also be an individual Jew. The group character is that it is about belonging to the group. Smashed is that I insult you for something you specifically do. For example, I blame you for insulting a Jew. If it isn't, it could be defamation. As an individual Jew, you may feel offended. That's why it's an individual declaration, because the group you belong to is offended. That whole individual story just doesn't add up at all. In short, the article was extended in 2004, also because we signed a treaty stating that we no longer want to insult disabled people. Soon that will be freedom of speech. This law is a wrong law. He's going in the wrong direction. This law's gonna go wrong. I notice that, because all the arguments used do not address those 80% convictions in any way, but only a number of cases where no conviction has been made. Those were cases brought before the courts in the Netherlands, in which attempts were made to obtain convictions, but they failed. However, let us look at the 80% convictions. We must stand by the people who are offended, who are discriminated against, who feel threatened in their lives in the Netherlands. That is the job of the legislator, not to help the screamers, not to help the hate-mongers and the insulters. That's not freedom of speech. In short, the CDA wants to offend and tackle hate-sowing harder. That is why we are also saying that the punishment for hate-sowing must be doubled. We all think that hate-sowing is a more serious crime than insulting. We know that, too. Yet the penalty is the same. The CDA wants to equalize the penalty for group termination and double the penalty for hate sowing. I'm rounding up. I sincerely hope that this law will not succeed and that we, the Netherlands and the House of Representatives, can say that we are on the side of all those who are hurt, who are insulted as a group, who do not feel safe as individuals. Let us use the freedom of expression for which it is: for the debate, for the conversation, for open democracy and not for insulting and hate-sowing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u109	Before I give the floor to Mr Pechtold, I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u110	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator for drafting this bill. The right of initiative is an important means for Parliament. I have a great deal of respect for Members of Parliament who use it, especially Members from a somewhat smaller group. I know from my own experience how busy it is. All the more appreciation for drawing up an initiative law. So much for my kind words, because I now move on to the content. Let me start by thinking about history, about the time and context in which the offences we are talking about today originate. For example, the article 137c on group ceremonies was written in the 1930s, a period in which the hatred of the Jews in Europe increased, hatred that was turned into deeds in a horrific way not much later in the Holocaust. The then Minister of Justice, Josef van Schaik, defended his proposal to add group swearing to the Code of Criminal Law in 1934 as follows: "The right of insulting and hurting causes hatred and resentment in the hearts and threatens to create dangerous moods in some of the people, so that resistance, yes strong resistance, is required." He had no choice but to qualify it as folk poisoning. And I have to say that today, too, the resistance that Minister Van Schaik called for is unfortunately still needed. This debate is about freedom of expression. What's the point of that? You have to be able to say whatever you want. There must be maximum room for a free and open debate on good and evil. That must be a debate in which there is room for disagreement. As Voltaire described it, I loathe what you say, but I will defend your right to say it with my life. Only in this way will we come to a debate in which all arguments can be weighed against each other and in which you will ultimately come to the best solution, because the best argument prevails. Since 1966, when it comes to extending freedom of expression, D66 has been at the right place. For example, my party deleted some obsolete articles of law that unnecessarily restrict freedom of expression, such as the ban on blasphemy. And the proposal to scrape the ban on majesty desecration is ready for treatment. But the question raised by the initiative law before me is: is freedom of expression unlimited? No! Freedom of expression is a right, but not the unlimited right to insult or worse. For, so I ask the initiator, what is the point of adding hate-sowing, discrimination and insulting groups to the open debate? Who's gonna get better? What problem does the initiator solve with the removal of these criminal provisions? According to the petitioner, does freedom of expression give anyone the right to dismiss whole groups, while in the meantime it contributes to division in society? As far as my group is concerned, protecting groups of minorities, whether Jews, homosexuals or Turkish Dutch, is not an unnecessary luxury. We do not live in a time when we should encourage people to make even more, even louder use of their free speech. Social media and other platforms become too often an open sewer. As Hans van Mierlo once soberly said, you absolutely must not always say what you think. In this country, we have standards and values laid down in our Constitution and in our criminal law, which ensure that we treat each other properly, respect each other's views and without unnecessarily hurting others. This is how we try to ban repulsive acts: hatred of Jews, homophobia and racism. What are the concrete consequences of Mr Van Klaveren's proposal? An ideological debate, like the VVD, is interesting and rightly conducted here, but what does this proposal do for society, for people? I'll feel uncomfortable after all. Walls covered with swastikas, wave with IS flags, spread anti-homoflyers, anti-Semitic slogans in football stadiums, imams called gay roaches: that is all allowed. I don't want to go on that path. Never! I ask Mr Van Klaveren to explain to me how this is improving in our society. As far as D66 is concerned, allowing this kind of objectionable expression does not in any way contribute to the way we treat each other in this country. Mr Van Klaveren assumes that, like him, everyone is resistant to discriminatory statements. But it's not. Not every young, just out of the closet gay can put insults to him or to who he is, in a context such as mature politicians might. Let me remind you that the suicide rate among young lbhts is four times higher than among their heterosexual peers. The right here is intended to protect the people in our society who may be a little less mature and who are just a little less able to stand up for themselves. How does Mr Van Klaveren intend to protect these vulnerable groups? The United States has much less limits to freedom of expression. During the preparation of this debate I always saw the images from that country in front of me of demonstrations by The Westboro Baptist Church; a church society that stands with protest signs at funerals of randomly killed soldiers because America accepts homosexuality in the army. Just like these Christian gay haters protested at funerals of the victims of the mass murder in a gay club in Orlando last summer with texts that don't lie about it. I quote: "Thank God for dead soldiers" and "God hates fags"; thank God for dead soldiers and God hates gays. Those are the lyrics they show at the funerals of randomly killed American soldiers. This is an excess in a civilization. This is an excrement of freedom of speech. This can never be the intention of freedom of expression, but it is the feeling that there should be no limit to freedom of expression. Freedom of speech is a great asset, but when I see the images of the families of these Americans, I am fortunate that I live in a country where we do set limits to that freedom. This debate raises another question: how do we deal with the judiciary? In the Netherlands we know the three separate powers with their origins in the French Revolution; Montesquieus trias politician. Those powers balance each other equally. This ensures stability, prevents abuse of power and prevents Turkish practices where judges have to leave the country on the orders of a dictator. As a final piece of the rule of law, it is essential for the judge to be able to operate independently and gain the confidence of society, even if he feels that some people may not be right. This independent institution is under attack by a democratically elected people's representative who speaks of a fake court, legal rackets, the prosecutor's accomplice of terrorists, biased D66 judges and a political trial. In doing so, this fellow representative also gives others a free pass to ignore, insult and undermine our judges and our competent authority. We don't accept that when it comes to police officers, paramedics and paramedics, do we? I abhor this gross attack on our independent judges, not only because the separation of powers is the foundation of our society, but above all because the message is divisive and discriminatory. Freedom of speech was not restricted here. Colleague Wilders himself went to the judge's judgment to look and thus over the line. Also in Mr Van Klaveren's proposal, criticism of the judiciary sounds loud and clear. Of course, it is good to keep the sustainability of the Code of Criminal Law under review in this house every now and then, but Mr Van Klaveren is turning things around in his proposal. He accuses the judiciary of arbitrariness and bases the importance of his bill on that. But in one case, judging and acquitting, is not arbitrary. This is a logical consequence of the balance of interests that the judge makes over and over again in every unique situation. In this way, out of political opportunism, seeing the seat legs of the third power of our trias politician puts the rule of law at risk. Can Mr Van Klaveren explain his vision of the trias politician and the role assigned to it by the judiciary? I'm rounding up. Freedom of expression is and remains one of our most important rights and is always on the move. It shouldn't be a door that's locked and the key that's thrown away so far that you can never reach it, but it's still a limited right. I keep keeping the footage of those American funerals in my head. A society in which insulting, discrimination and hate-sowing are encouraged is not my society. You don't encourage that; that's what you want. It is a freedom that brings with it a great responsibility: for every individual, for people among themselves and where necessary for politics as legislative power. It is that responsibility that leads me to advise my group not to go along with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u111	Mr. Chairman. Freedom of speech is a great asset. It is indeed one of the foundations of our democratic rule of law. Freedom of expression indeed promotes and keeps open public debate. The right to freedom of expression is there for all of us. I agree with the initiator of this proposal. I would also like to congratulate him on producing this bill. That is always quite an achievement, I say to the supporters. However, freedom of expression is not unlimited. The boundaries are fixed in the law. We are talking about these legal limits today. The initiator proposes to delete the ban on group termination. Article 137c of the Code of Criminal Law must disappear. Intentional insult to groups of people because of their race, religion, belief in life, sexual orientation or disability will no longer be punishable. Articles 137d and 137e are also amended, so that inciting hatred or discrimination against the same groups will no longer be punishable. The Advisory Section of the Council of State is extremely critical of the proposal, as Mr Van Tongeren also pointed out. There is no reason for this proposal to be found in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, contrary to what the applicant claims, and the proposal is not compatible with European law and international treaties. The 2008 EU Framework Decision on combating racism and xenophobia requires the criminalisation of intentional public inciting or hatred of a group of persons based on race, colour, religion, descent or origin. We also know the protocol to the 2001 Cybercrime Convention, the 1965 International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. All these international obligations are incompatible with the proposal. The conclusion should therefore not be, as the initiator writes, that there are conflicting treaty obligations. No, there is a bill conflicting with treaty obligations. In other words, if we adopt this bill, we are acting in violation of EU law and international treaties. There are no legal arguments for this amendment. This is well explained in an article in the Dutch Juristenblad, about which the SP asked questions in the written round. The Council of State and the author of this article show that this bill is contrary to international treaties and Union law, but the initiator says it is not. If I understand his reasoning correctly, he thinks that because the legislator did not want to reduce the existing level of protection of freedom of expression at the time when Article 137c and d were drawn up, but would have done so later. These articles have been interpreted more and more widely by the judges, which, according to the applicant of this proposal, no longer reflects, inter alia, that principle. If that's what you think and if you can prove that that's how it happened, why is it proposed to delete those articles? How does this increase legal certainty? Does the initiator agree with the valuable principles of the legislator who at the time played a part in the development of that criminal law provision? I'd like to receive a response to this. Perhaps the author feels that there is uncertainty about the interpretation of Articles 137c, 137d and 137e of the Code of Criminal Law. But why can't this legal uncertainty be removed by providing certainty through a more detailed interpretation? In my opinion, we have not received a clear answer to that so far. Perhaps the Minister could also consider this. Are Articles 137c, 137d and 137e sufficiently clear to practice, or does the Minister consider that clarification would be beneficial to practice? I myself am not convinced that adjustment is necessary. That's what I'm gonna say right away. However, I am very curious about the reaction of the petitioner and the Minister. There are therefore no legal arguments for this amendment. Are there any other arguments that can convince the SP of this? That is not the case either. Here it is proposed to abolish a law. If you want to do that, you should always look at the history of the creation. I, too, have done so, like colleagues Van der Staaij, Pechtold and others. The ban on group termination was established in the 1930s. The then Minister of Justice said: "The national-socialist hate campaigns against Jews cause a devastating system that causes hatred and resentment." That's what the then Minister of Justice Van Schaik said in 1933. The legislator therefore intended to halt the growth of national socialism in the Netherlands with its anti-Semitic excesses. Subsequently, the relevant provisions were strengthened in 1970 to implement the Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. Does the applicant wish to respond to the question as to why the reasons that led to the introduction of these articles would no longer be valid today? At the heart of the applicant's argument is the reasoning that the prohibition of group termination, inciting hatred or discrimination constitutes a disproportionate infringement of freedom of expression. In order to broaden freedom of expression, these articles should disappear, according to the author. I do not think it is a problem with the disproportionate infringement that these penal provisions would make of freedom of expression. In my opinion, you can very well claim and use a broad freedom of expression for yourself and for others, without insulting groups of people for race, religion or disability and without inciting hatred or discrimination. I really think that can be very good. Therefore, we do not need to remove these criminal provisions in order to support a broad freedom of expression, to claim them and to take action if they are under pressure. In addition, a test has been developed in case law to assess the criminality of statements under Article 137c. The first question is when an expression constitutes a criminal offense according to its purpose and context. Then there is the second question: can the fact that the expression was made in the context of a public debate deprive it of its criminality? The third point is that the expression should not be unnecessarily grievanced. A similar test applies to inciting discrimination. This also shows, as far as I am concerned, that freedom of expression is broad and is not unnecessarily restricted in advance by the prohibition of group termination and the ban on inciting hatred or discrimination. The context of the public debate therefore matters, as does the test of whether the expression is unnecessarily grievanced. In conclusion, freedom of expression is not absolute and therefore not unlimited in terms of the SP. The boundaries can be found in the law, including in the Code of Criminal Law. These limits are now being removed. According to the SP, there is no right to insult. Minorities also need to be protected from insults and certainly from inciting hatred and discrimination, because that can be a harbinger of something worse. The consistent and unpunished removal of groups of people can be dangerous. The question that the SP raises today is the question of what kind of society you want to have. Do you want one in which you can encourage hatred and discrimination without restrictions? Do you want one where you can insult groups of people because of their race, their religion, their sexual orientation or their disability? I don't think so. We don't want a society like that. In addition, not all the arguments put forward by the applicant are correct. It is not the case that the current law is contrary to treaty obligations. It is precisely the bill that runs counter to international obligations. Freedom of expression is not absolute. In fact, the deletion of these provisions violates international obligations. For a broad freedom of expression, we don't need this bill. The SP is not in favour of groupeering, inciting hatred and inciting discrimination. That is why we see no reason to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u112	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations are always included in an own-initiative proposal. It is the highest and heaviest thing a Member of Parliament can do: give real substance to the role of co-legislator. Mr Van Klaveren did so. Congratulations on that. This bill has a long history, and I myself played a small part in it, because I was able to adopt Mr Driessen's initial initiative proposal after leaving the Chamber, and that is how it came into my name. I congratulate the initiator on his own initiative proposal. If we make the cut, I'm gonna find this bill isn't gonna make it. Too few people will support it. That didn't come unexpectedly either. Of course, it was a big deal. It's reality. It's a shame, too. No freedom without freedom of speech. This is a crucial part of our democracy and of our freedom. As far as my group is concerned, it can be maximized. Freedom of expression always relates to opinions that are not accepted. Previously, the right to long toes was mentioned. That's exactly what this is about. It's often about unpleasant opinions. As far as my group is concerned, the judge should play a minimal role in this and the role of criminal law should be reduced as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mr Bosma supports this bill. On the basis of Article 137c, it is prohibited to wave Nazi flags and national-socialist expressions. If he deletes 137c, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u114	No, because there's something standing, namely the call for violence. National socialism, as an edition of socialism, has as one of the characteristics, especially as we experience it in history, mass murder, genocide. As Mr Buma describes it, it is a loud call for violence and any judge can act against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u115	We should not repeat the discussion we did with Mr Taverne, but you are opening the debate in such a way that it is done. Because you, too, are completely ignorant of the legislative proposal before you and the practice of court rulings. Why is it fortunate in the Netherlands that all waving with a Nazi flag, for example, is forbidden in a group of Jews? That's not inciting violence at all. Someone can even say, "I'm not inciting violence." It's insulting. All these crimes from 137c, Nazi flags, Nazi expressions, will no longer be punishable unless you amend the article on calls for violence so that it gets literally the same text as that on the existing insult. You're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u116	No. Earlier in the interrupting debate, Mr Buma mentioned the percentage of 80% et cetera. I'm sure he's right about that. I haven't done any quantitative research on it, but it seems perfectly logical that it should happen. But a judge can also just use 137d, because it's inciting violence. What is glorifying national socialism, glorifying the Holocaust other than a call to do it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u117	The interesting thing is, therefore, I do not understand this whole law either.It seems that we already like a lot in the Netherlands, but a call for violence must really be a call for violence, otherwise you will not be condemned for it. We are a rule of law. Another point is that no other party tweets so often that hate images have to leave the country. And who wants to make hate-sowing possible? The PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u118	The latter is certainly not true. Mr Buma has apparently studied Parliament's questions on this very carefully, and that is a credit to him. They are always about people who call for violence or do things that fit in with the call for violence. Those people have, to my great regret, earned their spurs in that area. It is always about people who say that they come here just for fun or, as is currently happening in The Hague, because they are passing through, but in the past they have called for violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u119	Mr Bosma, it is very strange that you say that hate images... Again: they are not calls for violence, because you are not condemned for that in the Netherlands. Then we'd have to change the law on that, but you won't. You simply have no idea what it's about, and that on a case the PVV says she's pretty much the king in, namely the prevention of insults by Muslims, because that would usually be done by Muslims. You just don't know it. What is an example of a condemnation based on hate speech? I have mentioned this example before, but I will do it again now. It's about the sentence: "Homosexuality is a reprehensible, abnormal, perverse and sickly anomaly, it's devastating to humanity, it's unnatural and it threatens humanity with extinction as it spreads." That text may later be spoken by a hate image from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u120	No, because anyone who goes to court then can base themselves on defamation, defamation or insult, whatever it is, of course. That is a gross insult and then you just go to the nearest police station and say: I see this as slander, defamation and insult based on Articles 261, 262 and 266. You can just do that, can't you? You just have that freedom, don't you? A judge can go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u121	No, that's just not true. You just have no idea what you're talking about. Those articles are about personal characteristics: you slapped someone like gay. That's Article 262. But this is about the group. If you want to keep that criminal because you agree with me that this is not allowed, you should leave that article. But you don't want to, because then your political leader will have another problem. Do you see how incredibly hypocritical this is? It's just not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u122	No, it's perfectly clear. If you're offended by any accusation, and you reject it, because you disagree and feel hurt and slandered, then you go to the police station and then you file a complaint. The question of whether it is a group characteristic or a personal characteristic is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u123	The PVV Group is extremely critical of the advent of certain imams, which we call hate images. I share that criticism. The PVV Group and other groups, as well as the author, are asking questions about this. That's what we did. The PVV Group literally introduced this article, which it now intends to abolish. In this case, it was Khalid Yasin. He said that Muslims should not have unbelieving friends. That's terrible. The PVV then asked the minister how it is possible for heaven's sake that this sheikh is allowed to sow hatred here. The PVV then put in place the same article that it now wants to abolish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u124	No, that is not the introduction of an article, but the establishment of a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u125	Of a fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u126	Yeah, which we say...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u127	Wait a minute. The PVV said this man is here to sow hate, and we don't want that. How on earth is it possible that this man is here to sow hate? That was the accusation of the PVV group about the arrival of Khalid Yasin: hate-sowing. The PVV said it can't be done and it can't be done. The same article was then put in place that the PVV now wants to abolish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u128	No, because we didn't call out explicitly: Article 137c? We didn't say he couldn't come in because of Article 137c, did we? The argument we used was always careful before we asked Parliament questions or otherwise took action or called the good man for violence. That would be the legal angle for us on the basis of which the good man should be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u129	This is a really lame word game. The PVV said he's here to sow hate...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u130	Yeah, that's what he's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u131	...and we don't want him to come here and sow hate. Here is a proposal that allows us to draw a line through hate-sowing. What the PVV put in place at the time, it now wants to abolish. What the PVV wants is to roll out a red carpet for Yasin and for all the other imams who actually come here to preach hatred and anti-Semitism. The PVV says: fine, go ahead; fantastic!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u132	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Again, the term "hate sow" simply exists, whether it is in the law or not. That's just everyday language. The only question is which legal article you should use to stop the good guy. Once again, that is Article 137d in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u133	Some colleagues in this debate are rather busy with flags. I would like to ask Mr Bosma whether he agrees with me that Mr Buma is apparently unaware of the national position on the criminality of flags and symbols of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That takes into account the latest developments. For example, in 2014 the Minister for Security and Justice replied to written questions on this subject that "it took into account the most recent developments following local policy alignment. The position is that IS and Hamas are prohibited terrorist organisations whose purpose is to commit violence against certain groups of the population, and that, in the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the public display of these flags constitutes a criminal offence under Articles 137d and 137c of the Code of Criminal Law." Action will thus be taken against the wearing of these flags and probably against the flags of other regimes of the past inciting violence. Does Mr Bosma agree with me that Mr Buma is apparently unaware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u134	Mr Taverne, Mr Buma has already spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u135	To be a bit contrary, of course I would have liked to answer no to that, but that is a bit of a head start. Yes, it is, and that is quite right. It also shockes me very much that yesterday the flag of Hamas was shown on Dam Square, in our National Monument. Right there are all kinds of supporters of Islam walking around with the Hamas flag. Mr Taverne confirms what I have been holding up throughout the debate, namely that it is therefore an appeal for violence. What is Hamas other than violence and anti-Semitism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u136	On a point of order, Mr President. You let it happen, but it is not going to happen here that someone should go to the microphone to ask me a question through Mr Bosma. He should have just done that or he should have done it in second term. I just want to be able to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u137	That's what I said. You've already been there. So that could have happened sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u138	We are witnessing a pathetic display of a bunch of PVV'ers, VVD'ers, seat robbers and other opportunistic stuff to show themselves a big problem 100 days before the elections. Of course, you want to be as hard as you can against those Muslims. Here is another one, Mr Bosma, also from the PVV. But, yes, it is also the Jews, and then it is everything you, Mr Bosma, are always so uncomfortable about. Tell me something, Mr. Bosma. How are we going to do that, if 80% of anti-Semitism criminal offences are based on Article 137c and you say: delete it? No, delete all the other articles, because while the VVD only wants to delete that one article, Mr Bosma says that freedom of expression must be maximized. Explain it to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u139	It is very funny and ironic that a party such as D66, which was set up to blow up our political system, has given itself the "liberal" label, here a legislative initiative proposed by Mr Van Klaveren and puts my role in it as opportunistic. Since when is it opportunistic to increase freedom in the Netherlands? Since when is it opportunistic to ensure that people can participate in the debate and say what they want? Since when does this conflict with the liberal principles of D66? What's opportunistic about that? Mr Van Klaveren has tabled an own-initiative proposal, which we are discussing here and I give my opinion on it. Why is that opportunism? I'm just doing my job as a MP. Today we are talking about an own-initiative proposal. What the hell is opportunistic about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u140	It's worse than opportunism. It's just a political scam from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u141	Ho, ho, ho, ho, mister!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u142	It's always maximizing your own equal, but if someone else uses it, then it's screaming, crying and asking for the judge. May I give you an example? I've also been looking into all these PVV questions from the last few years. Afshin Ellian was called an "incestuous weasel" and Ehsan Jami was called an "incestuous weasel." And do you know what Mr Wilders did then? He asked the Minister whether these statements did not exceed the bounds of the proper, and what they would do to prevent this. This was insult of the least kind. There wasn't yet an incentive to hate sow or to group swearing in, but then the PVV was in the tallest trees, because it was a Dutch Moroccan. Now they say: stretch it all up, but not if it doesn't suit us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u143	Mr Elian is a Dutch Iranian. So I do not fully understand the lack of consistency raised by Mr Pechtold. I do not recognize the examples he mentioned one-two-three, but they are undoubtedly authentic. They all fall under the heading of defamation, slander and insult, all of which are simply enforced in the law. So there's enough title to ask you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u144	No, in fact, the question to the Minister was not to put the Public Prosecutor's Office to work in response to statements made by an imam of Dutch descent. No, these statements prompted the Minister to ask how such agreements could be prevented and what measures should be taken. In this case, the PVV even wanted additional measures in relation to the Code of Criminal Law, which we have in front of us today, and which the PVV now calls together with a couple of robbers: back off and let us keep it completely free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u145	No, I didn't hear that in there. I haven't heard a plea for additional measures anywhere. I hear this plea: there is a law; implement it. This applies in particular to Articles 261, 262 and 266 on defamation, slander and insult. I haven't heard a call for additional measures anywhere. They were measures in the sense of: apply the law. These were not additional measures within the meaning of new articles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u146	Rounding up, really rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u147	If you dive into PVV history, that's the inconsistency you encounter every time. If it's a hate image, it's "screaming." For example, when it comes to the Holocaust, Jews and anti-Semitism, it is supposed to be "in the breach." That is the double-hearted and thus the opportunistic of the PVV. I have not yet received an answer to my question. If in 80% of cases with anti-Semitism the judge resorts to Article 137c, so to this group termination, how are we going to prevent it in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u148	I believe that this has already been discussed several times. Something simply remains standing, namely that calls for violence must be dealt with vigorously. That seems to me to be a very good thing. That gives a judge enough freedom to be active in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u149	I have a very different question. Mr Bosma is quite positive about the legislative proposal, but it is precisely in the documents that he is getting a sweep out of the pan, because it says that Mr Bosma left the initiative bill 'to die a silent death in a deep, dusty drawer'. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u150	To begin with, I found that a beautiful, poetic sentence, which, as a lover of patriotic literature, curled the corners of the mouth for a moment. As I said in my introduction, this initiative proposal was written by Mr Driessen. When he left the Chamber and the proposal was orphaned, I adopted it. This is how it works: someone submits an initiative bill, and when he leaves the Chamber, that proposal must be adopted by someone. I did not take any further action because I saw what is actually happening today, namely that this proposal is far from coming to the Chamber. You don't have to be a political heavyweight to see that coming. Firstly, there is a cordon sanitair from the Labour Party, which ensures that the PvdA does not support anything from my party. This is also a politically sensitive subject, as Mr Van der Staaij said in his speech. Then it'll be discussed within the coalition. That makes it very unlikely that it will be adopted. That's why I let that silent death die.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u151	I understand the answer, but I'm also a little surprised. To be honest, I think that this kind of feasibility argument is very much part of the established parties. I expect a fresh party to come up with positions that are not immediately feasible, but with which it simply stands up for its principles. Is that not an encouragement for Mr Bosma to continue to make unachievable proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u152	I will think about a number of unfeasible proposals during the Christmas holidays. I do not know whether the remark that we have become too much of the establishment is a compliment or a negative qualification, but I take it to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u153	Many people who feel protected by these articles of law are very concerned at the moment. They feel protected by these articles of law. It has already been said by colleagues that 80% of the sentences take place on the basis of the article on group termination. Both Mr Taverne and Mr Bosma each time indicate that it can already be punished on the basis of other articles. But if these restrictions remain, what is the added value of this initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u154	That 137c disappears. This is an article that has been applied fairly subjectively over the years. Let me quote from my text. I am thinking, for example, of Gregory Nekschot. It has not been prosecuted by him, but the spirit of 137c has been present. I am thinking of the role of the interdepartmental steering committee on cartoon issues that we had at the time, with Mr Hirsch Ballin and Mr Plasterk. Mr Plasterk was a member of the Labour Party in Elsevier who said that he played a role in the arrest of Gregory Nekschot and that it was discussed in the cabinet. I am also thinking of Mohamed Rasoul, also a pseudonym of the Netherlands, which says something about the debate climate in the Netherlands, who has written a very interesting book: The demise of the Netherlands. That dates back to the end of 1997 or 1998. That is about the Islamisation of the Netherlands. That was a very prophetic book, but he has been addressed, among other things on the basis of 137c. He just got right, but that's what he's been dealt with. This illustrates once again that cases which prove to be true are often dealt with by the courts on the basis of 137c. That seems to me to be the wrong thing to do. I am also thinking of Mr Janmaat, our former colleague, who once said, and was punished for that on the basis of 137c: if we come to power, we will abolish multicultural society. That is a text that you hear from later politicians, who are both here and abroad in governments, and echo. It was then punished, but then it became just political policy. Another good example is Judge Asscher who condemned Janmaat in 1982 because Janmaat had said that hundreds of thousands of foreigners would come to the Netherlands for economic and financial reasons. Mr Janmaat has been punished for that. I think that at the moment it is about an underlying idea of government policy that people come to the Netherlands for economic and financial reasons. Janmaat has been punished for that, but it is now about government policy. Mr Janmaat also said that people of ethnic minorities should be given priority in housing and teaching. Mr Asscher did not want him to say that. Before that, he was a criminal in 1982. If you look at the policy of positive discrimination, especially the Labour Party, I do not see why Mr Janmaat was so horribly wrong, but he was caught by the judge on 137c. That indicates that cases that are later brought to justice, first by judges...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u155	You're still quoting from your own work, I hear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u156	Yes, I have to answer, Mr. Chairman. Cases that are first punished by judges will later become about government policy. All these matters based on 137c are therefore extremely subjective. There's nothing you can't comprehend. That makes it very dangerous. Things that turn out to be true were discussed by judges first. By the way, I have got Mr Marcouch back on the bench.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u157	Don't provoke!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u158	I shouldn't have said that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u159	I sat down because I thought we wouldn't get out, because it's the PVV. I hear a tirade. What my fellow Members are saying, and whatever interest groups are writing to us, is that it is precisely that article that protects them. Judges also use it, so it's an important tool right now. I hear Mr Bosma most of all express his distrust of the judge. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u160	If the cases that are punished by judges are later government policy, I'll just establish that. Mr Marcouch himself is in favour of discrimination, because he has recently argued that PVVs should not become police officers. People are therefore not allowed to work with the police on the basis of their political opinion. In the 1970s the Netherlands was very angry about that sort of thing. That was called professional bans. Now that is apparently sanctioned by the Labour Party. I think this is a call for discrimination, but apparently the PvdA wants it. Mr Marcouch is a follower of Yusuf al-Qradawi. Speaking of a hate imam, you're talking about Yusuf al-Qradawi. Mr Al-Qradawi wants Sharia in power. Mr Al-Qaradawi is from Al-Azhar University in Cairo who writes Sharia, the umdat al-Salik. Mr Al-Qradawi has spoken out against Jews. He said that before he dies, he wants another Jew killed. Mr Marcouch simply says that Mr Al-Qaradawi is a figurehead for him. I think that's weird. I am also thinking of other calls from the Labour Party which are moving towards violence. Lolle Nauta, who was on the party board of the Labour Party, was Professor of Philosophy, I believe in Groningen called for support for the Rote Armee Fraktion. He felt that the Left had to go behind the Rote Armee Fraktion. I remember a beautiful picture of Aad Kosto, when he was the legal spokesperson of the Labour Party, in the Rothaanhuis on the Rozengracht in Amsterdam, with behind the chair a large picture of Ulrike Meinhof. All these things are, I think, calls for violence. It would be nice if something could be done about this under Article 137d.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u161	I cast those allegations far from me. I believe that discrimination, hate speech, calls for violence and collective oaths should be addressed and punished. I do think that people who believe that you should stop Islamization through the womb, that Muslims should not be in this country, that mosques, because they are mosques, should be closed and that Qurans should be banned, have nothing to do with the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u162	I think that is a call for discrimination. Now Mr Marcouch comes up with very different texts. Those are lyrics that I don't know, but which he does stick to his earlier plea. Mr Marcouch has simply advocated a professional ban. He believes that 20% of the Dutch population should not work with the police, that PVV's should not be there and that they should not work with the police. That is not a very shocking thing, because we have also seen a judge on television at the VPRO, who said that being a PVVer must be a counter-indication to become a judge. So you can't be a judge. Socialism shows its true face. Socialism is intolerant and socialism has become a megaphone of Islam in the Netherlands. We see that again: no PVVs at the police! I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u163	Perhaps it is good to return to the debate and that is Article 137c and 137d about group termination. Mr Bosma wants to delete insults. He also said: no, Nazi symbols must of course remain forbidden. I said, no, at 137c, that's okay. I said the same to the proposers. Now we can come up with what we find together, but of course we have to look at the judge how he pronounces it. After all, we're not the judge. What does the Supreme Court say? As a lawyer, I'll tell you what he's looking at. It's about someone who wore a red bracelet with a swastika at a demonstration by S.A. Storm Groningen. It is condemned as follows, at least the criminalisation is as follows, and I read it all out: since the national-socialist ideology is characterized by racial doctrine and anti-Semitism, and in the Second World War on the basis of that ideology the Jews in Europe have been persecuted and murdered on a large scale, the wearing of the swastika as defined in the statement of intent as stated by the Court is, in itself, an expression in an image offensive to Jews because of their race, as punishable by Article 137c. Mr Bosma makes it simply no different to delete this article by wearing a bracelet with a swastika by someone who goes to an S.A. meeting in Groningen. Then Mr Bosma cannot call for the Supreme Court to fill that in a different way. No, because he doesn't. If we change the law, it's gonna go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u164	This point has been sufficiently changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u165	Mr. Chairman. I've been ready to talk about this for half an hour. I invite Mr Buma to take a look at the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in 2003, the Garaudy v. France case, in which the judge stated that the denial of the Holocaust carries an anti-Semitic endeavor and that it also expresses a wish. Each judge can take 137d, evoke violence and see it in a much broader context. He can call it a new Holocaust and still embrace the glorification of the Holocaust.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u166	It is completely wrong what Mr Bosma says, completely wrong. It's about the Supreme Court, so it's our highest judge. That concludes in the reasoning for the insult that it is an ideology on the basis of which Jews were murdered. That is why it is an insult in the Netherlands. I would ask Mr Bosma to make some effort to bring some legal luggage with him when he talks about such a bill. Of course, I also think it is a call for violence, which we all find here, but the judge says that the direct line is not visible because the person who stood there did not call for violence. So it's not gonna be a criminal offence, it's gonna be this. Mr Bosma is now telling us to get c out. Next, he says he's assuming a little that the Supreme Court does what he really wants and interprets it so that nothing changes. That's not how the legislator works. If we change the law, the Supreme Court will interpret it differently. It's no different. If Mr Bosma does not want that, he must have the courage to say: I have misunderstood, perhaps we should not do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u167	Mr Buma can bring this very bathinating and offer to give me some legal luggage. I appreciate that very much, but then he has to start doing so himself. He is now saying twice that it is my wish to delete "confession." That is not true, because Article 137c, which would disappear, speaks explicitly of 'group insult'. That has nothing to do with "confession." 'Insult' is simply maintained, because that is a very different article, namely Article 266. I have not heard anyone argue for the deletion of 'confession', nor the initiators on paper, nor anyone in this Chamber, nor myself. That's what Mr Buma says, but it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u168	So Mr Bosma acknowledges that he wants to make it possible to wear a swastika, which is not a personal insult?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u169	No, because that's a call for violence. It is a characteristic of national socialism. The essence of national socialism is the Holocaust. I have a few more questions to the initiators, but they may have been dealt with by Mr Taverne's interruptions. They relate to speaking and showing sympathy with IS. Is that inciting violence as it is supposed to be? The question is how the international treaties relate to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u170	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a word of appreciation for the initiator. There's always a lot of work in an initiative law. It is good that this craftsmanship has been taken up and that we can talk about this important subject here. The timing is also very special after last Friday. I'll say something about that in a moment. We are talking about freedom of expression. It's special and vulnerable. It's good to keep that in mind every time. Freedom of expression, like freedom of faith, is a fundamental foundation of our democratic rule of law. It is a precious asset for the Christian Union group. It's a freedom that asks for defense in three ways. First of all, by laying down rights, for example freedom of expression. Secondly, by dealing properly with each other. So it also calls for well-being. Certain things you may say, but the right is only sustainable if society brings about self-control and decency not to always make use of it. The third way you can defend that is by limitation. Hatred sowing and deliberate insult must continue to be banned because they affect the freedom and rights of others. This debate is not only about freedom of expression, but also about peace in society, about how we treat each other properly and can continue to live together. With this bill, individual rights are blown up to great proportions. This is detrimental to the relations within our community. There is a beautiful spell from the Bible book Proverbs: whoever sows evil will reap evil. Words matter. As far as I am concerned, the bill is taking a wholesome path of individualism. This fits with a society in which individual self-realization is the highest value, but that does not help us as a society. We live in a time when some people wonder if you can say anything. We heard colleague Taverne refer to Gregory Nekschot. I refer myself to last Friday, to the verdict in the trial against Mr Wilders. These are examples of statements and then prosecutions which, to say the least, have led to some commotion. There are a lot of people who find it cramped here. You used to get heard when you were a kid: words don't hurt. It hurts when you get hit, but words don't hurt. This also appeals to many people in the debate on freedom of expression. In fact, that is also the thought of the author: words do not hurt. He's building on that sentiment. He says that 137f continues to exist. We can't discriminate. Nor should we encourage violence, but we are going to delete the rest, according to the author, such as inciting discrimination, discrimination and exclusion of others, with the aim of destroying their rights and fundamental freedoms. Delete inciting hatred. Delete inciting hostility to others, to dislike others, with the aim of affecting their freedoms in the political, economic, social and cultural fields. Scratch it all. That's gotta be possible, right? Screaming is one thing, but doing something is something else, isn't it? I'm the first person who thinks you shouldn't be too petty in a society. We live in an open society and we have very different views, political, social and religious, about everything. When opinions collide, sometimes it can do so. Often that is even inevitable. When it comes to ideas, including beliefs, when we have a debate on truth and lies, we have no choice but to be firm. However, not everything has been said. It is the Bible itself that already writes that we have to fear the tongue more than a double-edged sword, while the Bible itself does not always wipe it out. That's the warning, isn't it? Words are not without obligation. This is particularly true in the case of discrimination. Then it is not about negative treatment of a human being, a relatively innocent reason, but about the hurtful treatment of another person because of his race, faith, belief, belief, orientation or disability, with which you are put away in a breath with all people with those characteristics. In the case of statements relating to discrimination, therefore, we immediately oppose the fact that words are not without obligation, that there is more to say than 'alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, alas. I can imagine that the initiator wants to stay away from all too direct references to the Second World War, because we have seen that what started with words has ended with horrific acts. Perhaps he wants to stay away from the issue of anti-Semitism and hatred of Jews, perhaps just like the initiators Rutte and Nicolaï at the time of the initiative paper they presented a decade or so ago in the so-called freethinker's space of the VVD. This was also the case at the time: everything is allowed, provided you do not incite violence. However, the Holocausttontkenning remained a difficult point. We have heard today that Mr Taverne says: it cannot be done. However, there are more examples. Take the hate campaign against Tutsi's on the radio in Rwanda, to give you a more recent example. It began with words, discriminatory words, hateful words, went on endlessly and led to deeds. Take the war in Yugoslavia. Again and again there is a line of thought, from words to opinions, from attitudes to attitudes, from attitudes to hatred, from hatred to the sowing of hatred, from hate to the inciting of violence and finally the committing of violence. The petitioner believes that society is doing a service by pointing out the "lex certa" principle. You need to know when you're breaking the law. In addition, he assumes that the law is not clear. I do not share his view. The law does set limits to freedom of expression. In this context, it's not just a few expressions, it's discriminatory expressions, it's insults because of another human being's character. There's a reprehensible intention behind it. It is not about fighting a disagreement, an idea, not in the first place and not even in the second or third place. The target is different, it's focused on something else. The first purpose of your statements, your insult, your affection or treatment of another person is to hurt that other person, because he has a different race, because he believes anything other than you or doesn't believe, or has a different orientation than you do. Those statements, that treatment, even go far beyond the difference of opinion and therefore have as many dangerous consequences as possible. Do we restrict freedom of expression by imposing discrimination on the border, not only in terms of violence but also in terms of statements? I don't believe it. Fighting differences of opinion or fighting one's opinion or belief is not dependent on whether you allow discrimination. Debates, including political debates, on the edge of the cut remain possible, quite possible. For the sake of clarity, this also applies to religious differences of opinion. Let me also make it clear that when it comes to ideas that you can voluntarily adopt and volunteer, the protection will also be a little less than when it comes to creature characteristics that you can do nothing about, such as your orientation, your race or the color of your skin. Much more important than this is something else. Our freedom rights are not only there because they are in the Constitution, because they offer us protection against the government. Freedom rights are also there when it comes to granting each other freedoms. They come to life in a society, in everyday life. If you want freedom of faith, you should give it to someone else. If you want political freedom, so does the other. If you want to be able to say what you want, you have to let others say it. None of that is possible if in columns and articles, in speeches and in the media you are not after debate, a battle of words, but if your goal is something else, if the goal is to discriminate against the other, to hurt someone, not for what he says or thinks, but for what he is. Then what you do is not fight someone's opinion, but take away a piece of freedom. Those who seek discrimination and claim the right to do so are equally guilty of abuse of their freedom as those who try to silence others with threats of violence. The cardinal question of this bill is: is a civilized, decent, free society served by this proposal? The answer of the Christian Union Group is, unfortunately for the author but with complete conviction, negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u171	Mr. Chairman. It is exemplary in this debate that a number of judgments were condemned by the judge a few decades ago, whereas those judgments have now become commonplace, which has now become government policy. It is also exemplary that Mr Van Klaveren's proponents of this initiative have not once uttered the word 'Muslim hatred'. This is not the time to get group defamation, inciting hatred and inciting discrimination out of the Code of Criminal Law. There is a grim, xenophobic wind blowing through the western world. Popularists score with inflammatory xenophobia. Think of Trump in the United States, think of Le Pen in France, think of our own Geert W. Politics, some political parties, set a bad example. Then you see how part of society follows, how all the brakes go off, how the racist underbelly opens up, how a huge mountain of racist dredging is poured out over minorities, a Mount Everest full of hate and discrimination. Let me give you some examples of the PVV Supporters Facebook page. The exciting theorem that is being put forward is: I am taking in an asylum seeker. Listen how people react: "Good idea, put them in the basement and then nicely open the gas tap," "If I may drown him or not," "Yes, is good, in the crawl space where the rats are sitting," "I take asylum seekers into my house and set the house on fire" and "These guys belong in a pigsty." These examples show that it is essential that inciting hatred and inciting discrimination is included in our Code of Criminal Law. If you took these articles out now, it would be like giving the banks even more freedoms at the height of the financial crisis. After the financial crisis, we have strengthened the regulation of banks. In this racist crisis, we racists must be severely punished. It is surprising that there is no more stringent action against racism and discrimination. I have a number of specific questions for the Minister of Security and Justice. 1. Are sites like PVV Supporters and PVV voters actively monitored by the Public Prosecutor? 2. How many cases have the D.A. filed in recent years in relation to Articles 137c and 137d? 3. How many of these cases have actually been condemned? 4. What is the Minister's political assessment of the number of prosecutions? Is that in proportion to the tsunami of hatred and discrimination that spans our society? 5. What does the Minister think the impact on society would be if Articles 137c and 137d were abolished? Doesn't these articles act as a deterrent? Does the Minister not expect the racist cesspool to open even further if these articles are abolished? It is clear that we are in favour of tackling the inciting of hatred and discrimination. But it must be done in a correct and correct way. That is why we have tabled an amendment which doubles the penalties to two and four years and raises the fines to a category. Nor should there be an arrest team of ten officers, such as Gregory Nekschot. You shouldn't take someone into custody for a day and a half. You have to let justice in court do its job. After all, the judge decides whether someone is guilty or innocent. I would like to say something that affects the heart of this debate. I want to make the sound of a part of our society, something that has been watched hundreds of thousands of times on YouTube: "You have no freedom, by shamelessly insulting me, blackening me, demonizing me to the crowd On such a massive scale, I can't defend myself Everyone seems to me, inside it breaks me When people without empathy draw those cartoons If this has to be possible we're never gonna unite I see how the name of my beautiful religion is ruined In the name of freedom my prophet ridiculs How the media and politics cultivate it hurts me Keep me calm, but it feeds my anger more 15 years of stigmas, 15 years of crime, What you don't look at because your own fear blinds you See it goes wrong. The freedom you claim is already worthless Because it makes you a sneaky racist. He's hiding behind freedom, so he gets right. At the cost of peace, at the cost of justice People are getting used to racist voices. The mood is tormenting, and it doesn't help us anywhere else. The scarier the terms and the stamps on people The brighter the racism, tell me this, how am I supposed to protect myself? People don't realize how much I fight with myself They think no further than their own perception and knowledge. I was born here, but I'm not in my spot in the west. Where people use freedom to hurt people It won't be long before I start freaking out. How much longer is this gonna go on? I don't feel like taking this. I watch the news and see horrible me But my side of the story doesn't interest them. Meanwhile, people are shouting "less, less, less" I'm trying to swallow it again, but I can't digest it. I'm looking for a place without these troublesome things. I seek love and trust, but this begins from the inside But how can I love myself When I'm approached with fear and hate As a potential terrorist, jihadist Radical extremist and supporter of a caliphate Under the guise of security We give people stamps like they're a real threat. Antilians, Moroccans, groups at risk Black people, Muslims, typical crooks Is this security? I feel less safe 'Cause your security guard's been molesting and screwing me all the time. And not on the basis of my actions, but my characteristics." "The media has lost their morals Sensation goes for the truth Lies spread, we get away from each other Respect begins to disappear more The terms we learn strike a wrong tone Allochtoon, non-Western native, native What's the idea behind this? Hierarchy. We share races in classes People call for equal opportunities Then why do I have to prove myself to them? What do they want to hear? Don't worry about it. I'm not a terrorist? I don't want to kill innocent people? Where's the news when Muslims save lives? Or like taunting neo-Nazi mosques? It hurts me that most people don't think wider Or want to think, because they have the privilege To ignore what people feel and what they want To trivialize instead of learning That respect is what a lot of people covet every day. That our leaders rule through fear Nearly everyone's scared today. It doesn't matter which side you're on. We have a lot to learn from each other. Trust each other and be in control of your fear." Mr. Chairman. This is the lyrics of the rapper Fresku and it's about the song Fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u172	This is a passionate plea for respect. Respect is being demanded, and I understand that. If you are attacked because of your beliefs, that can indeed be very painful. I know something about that myself, but Mr Kuzu will know that too. I have said in my own contribution: respect always comes from two sides. If you take freedom, you give it to me. Mr Kuzu began by saying that he is against hardening and brutality, but have there been moments of self-reflection over the past period? Hey, have we always used that freedom properly in the equations we've made, in the videos we've made and in how we've treated other people? Has there ever been a moment of self-reflection where you thought, "Oh, maybe we should have done that differently?" Have those moments ever been there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u173	Every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u174	It would make Mr Kuzu's plea as much stronger as he says: I crossed the line and I regret it. When he says: I shouldn't have put the video so focused on the person, that people have caused so much pain, even in their cultural-social context. It would be so strong in the plea for respect, for freedom and for the space that the grassroots want to have as he says: I regret this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u175	That self-reflection is there every day. We see that sometimes it is necessary to throw a stone into the pond to unleash a discussion. You're talking about the videos we make. We made some of those videos because it was really necessary. There's a lot of talk about these movies, but there's no looking at the background, at why these guys do that, why that's necessary at this time. Unfortunately, I see that many MPs here in the Chamber keep a very different story than in the outside world; MPs who go from mosque to mosque, from association to association to keep a very different story than their voting behaviour in the Lower House shows. The citizens have the right to know how these people's representatives vote. When we talk about respect and freedom, I think that citizens should be respected. That is why we are here with you, Mr Segers, to represent the country. If there is a different story here in the Chamber than in the outside world, it must be made known to the outside world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u176	I hear a complaint about the way in which Mr Kuzu and his supporters are being treated and I see an accusing finger towards others because it's all so terrible what they're doing. It would be so strong, it would be so beautiful if there was a moment of self-reflection and if that was also public and not just somewhere in an inner room. I will not repeat the words used by Mr Kuzu, because he knows exactly what I am referring to. He knows exactly what names I have in mind when I talk to him about this. I'm talking about hardening, ruthlessness, use of freedom and calls for decency. I hope that Mr Kuzu will also occasionally look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u177	We do that every day. But what we are doing is holding a mirror to society. We hold a mirror to politics. We have to ask ourselves what we are doing at the moment when we are propagating something quite different here in the House of Representatives than outside the mosque, in the community center and in the cultural association. I stand by it: people have a right to know what is happening here in the House of Representatives. The people who feel addressed should look in the mirror themselves and wonder what they are doing. I was talking about the rapper Fresku and his song Fear. Fear is a feeling many people have these days. Xenophobic populists like Trump, Le Pen and our own Geert W. raise that fear. They abuse that fear of sowing hatred and discrimination. That is why we are satisfied with Articles 137c and 137d in the Code of Criminal Law. We call for penalties to be increased and for fines to be increased. We welcome the conviction of Geert W. I'm rounding up. The living proof that we should not delete these articles is in box K. That's the court john roos. We do not want to ban him from screaming, but if he crosses the border, he must be prosecuted. So we hope the D.A.'s office not only keeps an eye on Geert W., but also follows the clones closely. What DENK is asking for is very simple: let the Dutch rule of law do its job and let the people who deserve protection also get protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u178	Mr. Chairman. I also agree with those colleagues who have expressed respect and appreciation for the initiators, but now the initiative itself. We're talking about freedom of speech here this afternoon. We are talking about the freedom of freedoms, because this is about the freedom to be who you are. That is what we are fighting for, because we are talking about freedom, then we are talking about security. Those who are not safe know no freedom. If you're scared, you're trapped. That happens when people are discriminated against. Discrimination destroys people. We protect people from this by means of our laws. Anyone who wants to delete these laws is not concerned with freedom of expression at all. It aims to legitimise, legitimize and legalise group swearing and inciting hatred and discrimination. It's not for nothing that the COC pulled a heavy alarm on the bell. The journalist Hella Rottenberg, who investigated the life of her Jewish family, also reacted with great urgency. We protect with these laws the gays who are trapped in their homes, besieged by neighborly boys. We protect Jewish men who should always be on guard with their yarmulke on the street. We protect Muslims who are constantly afraid to be spit on for their headscarf. The abolition of these laws does not give citizens freedom, but declares them outlawed. The abolition of these laws does not mean freedom, because no security is not freedom. The profit of our civilization is right that we can be who we are, all of us. That is why we are constantly working on freedom and security. We do not want to restrict freedom of expression. We want to make it possible for everyone. I therefore have a better proposal. We are not going to abolish these laws, but we are going to enforce them with great urgency, with well-trained officers and prosecutors who understand the urgency. Then we Dutch, citizens, are also supported to stand up for each other and to correct each other on the street, in class and on the football field. Group insult is the portal to discriminatory violence. Almost no one is violent against groups of people overnight. There goes a period before in which groups are blackened, demonized and actually dehumanized, gradually, as drops of poison from an infusion, people are poisoned with the delusion that other people belong to inferior groups that you can attack. Ask the kids. The great consequences of demonization are getting under your skin. I like to teach about freedom of speech. I often don't have to explain to children how important it is that you can be who you are. I explain to them that it is good for society if they express their opinion, because it is the way to fight wrong ideas with better ideas, to come up with better ideas. I often start by asking what they think is worse, hitting or bullying. "Pesting, master!', I hear in choir. "Why?', I'm asking. Answer: "Slack stops, but bullying never stops." It hurts me to feel how in children's eyes mental violence is worse than physical violence. We also find this in the case of domestic violence. That mental violence starts very early. At "less, less!" The children came home crying with a big question mark: "Should we go?" Once they have grown up, they are still suffering from this. This does not stop, because unfortunately victims often become perpetrators, as we know from research. The journalist Hella Rottenberg wrote to us her plea for the laws that protect our freedoms of expression and our way of life. It has been mentioned by colleagues before: not for nothing in the Netherlands we made these laws valid in 1934, in the middle of the period in which the family of Rottenberg was demonized as Jews, prior to the Shoah, less than ten years later during the Second World War. Rottenberg writes: "I see the security in which my generation grew up threatened." She explains: "If you repeat enough times that blacks are lazy, Jews are money wolves and Moroccans are criminal, people will believe that and you have prepared the ground for a next step." Anyone who wants to delete the laws that protect us from gang vetting and from inciting discrimination and hatred is not after freedom of expression. On the contrary, he seeks to legitimise discrimination, to make the humiliation of people and to imprison people far away from freedom of expression. Let us unite the people who are good enough to oppose this, by calling for enforcement, reporting, detection and prosecution. There is still much to improve in this regard. Recently, Justice handled only a quarter of the declarations until 2013. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. I look forward to the figures for 2014 and 2015 and I would like to have some colleagues who I believe are also asking that the Minister responds to what it means for enforcement and detection if, for example, Article 137c is deleted. I would also like to hear from the author how he is going to fill the gap that will arise by abolishing, for example, Article 137c. Is there any future for the Jews in the Netherlands? That will soon be the subject of an election debate on the initiative of Ronny Nathaniel. Will the author also answer that question? My answer is: yes, for that is what we have these laws for. We have these laws to guarantee people freedom so that they can be who they are. That is why we will not support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u179	Before I suspend the sitting, I would like to make a general comment. It is not customary to point to persons or to name those who do not take part in the debate. After all, they cannot participate. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u180	The examination of this initiative proposal will continue at another time, of course in consultation with the initiator.
