ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. This is the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply and for the written response to questions and amendments. This law deals with three things, which should be dealt with separately: the protection of degrees, the protection of names and the definition of social responsibility, including sanctions. In protecting degrees, the Minister finds the Christian Union directly on her side. In protecting names, I have more doubts. Does that have enough added value? That's what the Council of State is wondering. In the letter, the Minister says that there is no risk of deception if, firstly, there is no demand for compensation and, secondly, there is no prospect of any degree. Why are these the decisive criteria for determining that there is no danger of deception? The minister mentions funny names as examples, such as the Dog College or the Kindergarten University. It is sad that institutions which have been established for 40 years and which certainly do not mislead must change their names. With this measure, the Minister is dealing with institutions where there is clearly no deception, such as the Evangelical College and the Free University. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, these institutions are also covered by the exception, because they clearly communicate about the nature of the intermediate year. I have the original amendment to part No. 15 together with Mr Rog. Should the law be enforced, including banning the name of the Evangelical College and the Free University, will the Minister compensate for the costs these institutions have to incur because they have to change their name after 40 years? The third part of the law is about social responsibility in non-cost institutions. I agree with the objective the Minister is trying to achieve. Directors of institutions that receive public funds or use public accreditation should behave. If such a director breaks the law by calling for violence or hate speech, then the Minister of Education should be able to intervene. The borders of the rule of law apply to all. The responsible rector in Rotterdam, who has already been mentioned in the first term, cannot rely on academic freedom. That's not a fundamental right. The freedom of education is not unlimited either. You can expect directors of funded or accredited institutions to behave in accordance with the morality requirements imposed on teachers in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution. On this point, too, Article 23 of the Constitution is a jewel in the crown. What I'm having trouble with is two-fold. The first is that it is the Minister of Education who must first determine the crime. I believe that this is not the role of the Minister of Education but of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Would the Minister explain once again what is wrong with the normal order in our rule of law? There's been a report. There's gonna be a charge. Someone's coming to court. Someone's gonna get convicted. As far as I am concerned, this law must ensure that the Minister can deal with the institution as a whole. Why in this case has the reverse been chosen? The second point I have difficulty with is that the law's focus is on violating purely constitutional article 1. Fundamental rights are, however, secondary in the Netherlands. You can't unpack one at will. A driver must abide by the law, like any citizen. A driver must do so all the more, because a great deal will be demanded of everyone who has been given a great deal. The more entrusted to a man, the more will be asked of him. If a director violates the law and thereby shows no sense of social responsibility, the institution as a whole must be able to be dealt with. That's what we're here for. This should be the case with banks and should be the case with universities and colleges of applied sciences. I refer to the amended amendment tabled by Mr Bishop and myself, which uses the word'state of law' as a criterion. I'm rounding up. I await the Minister's further explanation, the conduct of this debate and the appreciation of the amendments before I come together with my group to a final consideration of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u3	I thank Mr Bruins for his contribution. I have another question about the last piece, about the sense of social responsibility. I hear two considerations. One of them relates to the escalation. Mr Bruins asked: why not follow the legal proceedings first rather than at the end, as is now proposed? My first question is this. The type of escalation ladder that is now being proposed is more common, is already being used. When it comes to the quality of higher education, there is also an escalation ladder that works like this, with court proceedings all the way to the end. Can Mr Bruins imagine that this might be a good order, because there are just situations where you want to talk to an institution first and give that institution the opportunity to take corrective action, for example, before you come up with a judicial review? The escalation ladder is intended to solve the problem first. It is only at the end that you say: there is always a judicial review. Can Mr Bruins imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u4	I think that Mr Duisenberg's example of quality testing, of the quality of education, is a difficult one. We have the inspection for that. It's testing. The bill would be a violation of Article 1 of the Constitution. I think that's a whole different order. At the same time, I am open to Mr Duisenberg's suggestion of first talking to institutions. I do believe, however, that if an institution explicitly distances itself from, for example, very bad statements by a driver or imposes sanctions on a driver, that institution will not be blamed. Then it's a personal offense and can still be filed through the D.A.'s office against that person. It would indeed be unfair to tackle the institution immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u5	That's why I find that escalator ladder a charming, nuanced solution. Then you do not immediately step outside and do not immediately do that judicial review, but leave open the possibility to have that review carried out, if it is really necessary. Eventually, the minister isn't in that chair. If one wishes, the judiciary will eventually be in that chair. My second question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u6	I would like to ask the President if he will allow me to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u7	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u8	I can imagine that, if the person concerned does not comply with Article 1 of the Constitution or with the rule of law, the charge against that person will indeed be filed immediately, but that the consequences for the institution will come later, after a whole series of discussions and application of the escalation ladder that Mr Duisenberg indicated. Thank you for giving me this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u9	My second question concerns the state of law. How do you take the definition? That is also in line with what Mr Van Dijk and I intend to do with our motion. We have mentioned social responsibility and state of law. I understand that Mr Bruins is now saying that he thinks Article 1 is too narrow and that it should be more. I have therefore laid down a number of cases in the first period which are wider than Article 1. Apparently, the answer given by the Minister did not offer Mr Bruins sufficient comfort to conclude that, although it seems to be very narrow, the operation can be much wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u10	Let me be very sincere to Mr Duisenberg. During the debate, I found out more and more about this law. There are difficult brackets to use when it comes to the rule of law, the Constitution and the way in which certain charges or complaints will be dealt with. The lack of comfort has therefore increased and increased during the debate. I look forward very much to the reply of the Minister in the second term, to see how broad she intends to apply in practice the violation of Article 1 of the Constitution. Also because this debate is part of the legislative process, I certainly await the answer before I take a final position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to a few outstanding questions or questions to which I would like further answers, and to tabling a motion for a resolution. The Minister would like to see as clear a regime as possible for names in higher education. We share that aim; there is no misunderstanding about it. In addition, however, there is also the legal right to protect name. It is not acceptable to unnecessarily violate the right of name of institutions. My amendment to item No. 10 actually does justice to both interests. On the one hand, it provides a good basis to intervene in the shadow of names, but on the other hand, it leaves institutions alone when they are clear about their status. I would ask the Minister to state again why this would not be a good balance. The SGP is still in the dark about why the government avoids criminal law in all cases of abuse of the name "university" or "high school." It would criminalize too much in advance, but why is that a problem for citizens who want to make a deal out of diplomas with ruse and deception? The obligation to work on a sense of social responsibility in higher education has inadvertently expired in 2010 for unpaid institutions. Until then, however, this duty did not concern the conduct and statements of directors. My question is not only why this provision is not being restored, but also why we should not extend it. And why should enlargement not be relevant to other sectors? It is important that the proposal clearly defines which behaviour and statements can lead to sanctions. In its last reaction, the government is restricting itself to prohibited discrimination, but that is not in the proposal. Can she take another look at that? I regret to note that the letter does not deal with the content of the amendment on the rule of law, i.e. with our justification in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment. The amendment does not go for a broad understanding, including, for example, demonstrations, but is actually in line with the criterion used when legal persons are dissolved. I would ask the Minister to look at this amendment again through those glasses. Finally. In recent years, concerns about radicalisation and jihadism in non-cost education have been growing. There are, for example, jihadists who want to teach. The government recognises that supervision is possible, but there is uncertainty about the precise possibilities of supervision. Will the Minister give us a closer look at the boundaries? Just to be safe, I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that concerns over radicalisation and the influence of jihadists in non-cost education have grown in recent years;]] [[whereas the provision of education is free, but supervision is also intended to prevent dangerous influences on the legal system;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for supervision to counter dangerous influences in non-cost education for the legal system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34412-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u12	I will conclude, after thanking the Minister for her reply and the careful manner in which she responded to my questions, although that did not always lead to a satisfactory answer, I admit that. However, I would like to thank her for the care with which that has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u13	You can explain very nicely how you are not satisfied, that is also an art.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr. Chairman. In this House, we often ask ourselves what kind of problem is actually solved by the law we are dealing with. However, the problem for which this proposal is intended to provide a solution is crystal clear; it is also recognised by the CDA Group and we also want to solve it: the deception of prospective students, employers and society by educational institutions acting in bad faith. However, in resolving this problem, the Minister chooses what she calls a pragmatic approach. To be honest, I would rather call that approach careless and arbitrary. Religious institutions such as the Free University of Applied Sciences and the Evangelical University of Applied Sciences, which have been in existence for more than 40 years, will soon have to change their name, while all potential students of these institutes know very clearly that they are starting an intermediate year. For the sake of clarity, no degrees are envisaged in these institutions either. Some other institutes, like branches of foreign suppliers, do not need to change their names. According to the CDA, it is precisely in line with what the Minister intends, and therefore crucial to us, that educational institutions acting in good faith do not fall victim to this law. Together with the Christian Union, I have tabled an amendment to give the Free University of Applied Sciences and the Evangelical University of Applied Sciences an exemption. For the sake of clarity, I would point out that the Minister did not convince us of the whole cycle requirement in the reply in the first period and in the written reply, for which I am grateful. This raises a very high threshold for new educational institutions. Are there not sufficient safeguards already in the WHW and in the test new training, inspection monitoring and interim assessment? Together with Mr Duisenberg, I have therefore tabled an amendment to delete this cycle requirement. I have amended my amendment on protecting the title of lecturer in the light of the Minister's response in the first term. The amendment lays down the responsibilities and rights of the lecturer, but I fully agree with the Minister that practical research also requires cooperation between VMBO, MBO and HBO. You read that back in the amended amendment that has just been distributed. I also have a motion relating to this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas greater cooperation between VMBO, MBO and colleges of higher education in the field of practical research could strengthen the professional column;]] [[also considering that the practitioner in the MBO does not currently enjoy a protected title;]] [[calls on the Government to promote cooperation in practical research between the different sectors of vocational education, to encourage the development of practitioners in the MBO and to make the practorate a protected title,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34412-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u15	Look at this!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u16	I have another question about the amendment concerning the lecturer. I know Mr Rog and the CDA as great supporters of vocational education and of our binary system. Vocational education and the binary system are things that you should also be proud of in relation to abroad, but what is that lecturer going to be called abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u17	This bill and the amendment we are making to it are based on the Dutch name. I believe that the Minister has already written about the English name of such a lecturer in his written reply. I see that Mr Duisenberg, like me, is looking for that name, but there is one. We have a distinction between university and university of applied sciences. I can imagine that we will also maintain such a difference between Professor and Associate Professor. Minister, am I saying it right? Yeah, it's associate professor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u18	Yes, I had "associated professor" in my head, whereas that is a term that is also used abroad by scientific education. Then it's gonna get mixed up again. Isn't that a disadvantage to Mr Rog's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u19	I'm attached to the position and reinforcement of the lecturerate. That is why we have tabled this amendment. This will mean a lot of good, also for the further development of practical research. There will therefore be a difference between the name in the Netherlands and that in other countries. As far as I am concerned, there is a clear distinction between these two types, on the one hand the professor and on the other hand the associate professor. We have the same thing with other names. Indeed, we will undoubtedly remain vague from time to time. We now have the same thing with various other names. I can't make it any prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. The PVV Group welcomes this law. I told you that in the first term. The Minister spoke of her frustrations when we sometimes crossed swords and the Minister did not have the right instruments in his hands. I can imagine. That was frustrating for both the Chamber and the Minister. As far as we are concerned, there should be no room for exceptions when it comes to protecting the terms 'university' and 'high school'. That creates uncertainty; hence our amendment to item No. 16. Finally, I shall table a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister's draft law on protection of names and degrees of higher education (34412) has the legal framework to intervene if an institution fails to fulfil its duty to promote social responsibility;]] [[considers that the public statements of the rector of the Islamic University of Rotterdam (IUR) cannot be separated from his function;]] [[Considers that his statements on Kurds, Armenians, homosexuals, Jews and on the beating of women are in flagrant violation of the principle of social responsibility;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the law as soon as it enters into force and to withdraw the accreditation of the IUR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34412-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u21	May I ask what this motion will add to the law? We have debated this. I think the Minister would like to get to work on what you are asking for as soon as the law enters into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u22	What is this motion going to add? In any event, this motion adds that the PVV is keen to proceed with this action as soon as the law has been passed and entered into force. We are very keen to close this so-called college as soon as possible. This is what we want to emphasise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u23	I understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u24	You can vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u25	We're going to see that, but the tricky point is that the minister can't take action until the rector starts saying crazy things again after the law comes into force. Does Mr Beertema respect that, or does he say: no, withdraw that accreditation anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u26	As far as we are concerned, this so-called university will be closed down as soon as possible, also on the basis of the things that this rector has said before. It is a mockery, a disgrace on the blazing of Dutch education. It needs to be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u27	I notice that Mr Beertema wants the law to come into force first. How does that relate to his election program? There is no need for such laws, because it says that all Islamic schools in the Netherlands should preferably be closed immediately. How should I see the care of this institution in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u28	That is indeed in our election programme. This law provides for an instrument to close this so-called university in Rotterdam as soon as possible. Everyone was frustrated by the situation in which this gentleman, this principal, could go on and on with his insulting, discriminatory statements, secretly smiling that the parliament and the minister as servant of the Crown did not even have the tools to call that institution to order. That is what this law is based on, as we have read it and so we want it to enter into force as soon as possible. Indeed, that is separate from our ideas of banning Islamic education as a whole. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u29	The rules in this law are based on Article 1 of the Constitution. No statements must be made that are contrary to that. How does Mr Beertema interpret the relationship between his electoral programme and Article 1 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u30	My party leader has already said it. What if we were to allow Nazi schools to be set up here? Then Mr Van Meenen would be at the forefront of protesting against it. To bring in Article 1 of the Constitution, the whole Constitution and the rule of law... That's how Mr Van Meenen must see it. We make little distinction in that regard. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u31	You mean, between Nazis and Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u32	That's right, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u33	Well, then that can only be clear. Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u34	Not you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u35	The godwin is now from the PVV itself, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Van Meenen. I think this debate is clear. Mr Beertema also thanked him for his input. I call Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u37	Mr. Chairman. The VVD supports this bill, because it guarantees the reputation of our higher education and provides certainty about the names and degrees of students and employers. It is also important to ensure the role of our education in society when it comes to our shared values. I have two further comments and questions: the complete cycle requirement and the sense of social responsibility. I'll start with the complete cycle requirement. The VVD considers it important that students can rely on quality assurance, but we also consider it important to have a level playing field between funded and non-paid education. Innovation in and new entry into education should be possible. They should not be made unnecessarily difficult. Because of the complete cycle requirement, you must recruit students for a course that is the experience of the programmes and institutions that, on the non-cost side, try to start a higher education programme without promising them a degree. These courses end up in a kind of vicious circle or in a chicken egg problem that as a newcomer you can't or can't get through. I am not convinced by the answer given by the Minister in her written reply to the questions put by D66, CDA, PVV and our party. That is why, together with Mr Rog of the CDA, I have tabled an amendment to delete this provision. So that means no complete cycle requirement. Quality assurance is very important for students and for society. But in our view, as drafters of the amendment, that quality is already sufficiently guaranteed. There is a test new training of the NVAO and the inspection carries out its own test on matters such as continuity. It also looks at the way institutions have regulated the training. In addition, since 2014, the accreditation framework has included an interim test after three years. So there are a number of tests in advance and also during the journey that make that quality assurance to a large extent or, as far as we are concerned, completely sound. So there is sufficient assurance of that quality. The article with the complete cycle requirement only has the effect of hindering innovation and new entrants to higher education. I would ask for support for this amendment from those parties who consider innovation in higher education to be important. I come to the sense of social responsibility. The VVD welcomes the addition of the promotion of social responsibility through this law. If you want to use our names, degrees and reputation as an institution, you will also participate in this societal mission, this important societal mission. If you don't want to, you can still start an educational institution here, but then the government doesn't have to facilitate you. Then there is no accreditation and no possibility to lift on our reputation and no study advance for your students. I do have a few questions about the state of law. Like Mr Bruins, I have run into the rule of law versus Article 1. The motion by Mr Van Dijk and myself knew that state of law and that sense of social responsibility. The bill only deals with Article 1. Like Mr Bruins, my first reaction was: this is too limited, this is not good. However, I can understand the Minister's explanation and consideration. It says that the concept of "state of law" evokes many different images and cannot be linked to an existing legal standard, as can be done in the case of non-discrimination. Let me tell you how I feel about it right now. Firstly, I believe that adding the sense of social responsibility is a very important asset for our higher education. It's okay if we anchor that assignment. Secondly, I think that the mission of social responsibility is a positive task, which the law gives to institutions within the WHW. Its implementation and implementation is free for the institutions. In the first term I mentioned the example of the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences. They have their own way of shaping it. When you come in there, you see: we treat each other with respect, man and woman are equal here, etc. College fills it out with those principles. Another institution could fill it out differently. Again, I see it as a positive task. Thirdly, that review, that Article 1, is a review for exceptions. Of course, it must be well defined by law. It must sufficiently support the letter and spirit of the law. That is why I asked for these cases in the first place. Those were cases in the area of discriminatory statements about women, statements about gay marriage, that sort of thing. I asked how that worked out. As far as I am concerned, these cases make it clear that the law has sufficient scope and that it is at the same time manageable, in this case for a minister or at least as a law. In addition, the Minister states in her letter of 22 September 2016 that this was after the first term "it should be possible, in addition to situations of discrimination, to address other excesses, such as calling for the armed jihad'. These extreme cases affect the foundations of the rule of law in such a way that an institution is no longer credible in its task of promoting the sense of social responsibility. In such cases, this legislative proposal will also allow action to be taken." It's in the letter the Minister wrote to us. However, the letter then contradicts Mr Bishop's amendment specifically to the words of public policy. I was a little disappointed about that. I was sorry because it was not at the heart of the debate. In itself, I agree that you can see something about those words of public order, but Mr Bishop has already corrected them. How did the Minister come to the conclusion that the bill would allow intervention in such cases? This applies, for example, if the armed jihad is called upon. Can the Minister work out this case again in the second period, as she did in the first period, in order to provide us with extra comfort that the scope is wider than Article 1 and touches on the things we aim to do, on the spirit that we want to give with this law, even if it is only Article 1? Finally, I have a question that is very specific about the Islamic University of Rotterdam. In the first term, the Minister indicated that it was not possible to apply this law retroactively. That's what she said in response to a question I asked. However, I asked for something else. My question is this. If the minister invites the board of the IUR and requests to renounce the principal's words on the day after the law has been passed, what are the consequences if the board refuses to do so? It's the fact that it doesn't abdicate. That fact takes place after the adoption of the law. I therefore ask for this request to be made, on a date in the future, after the legislative proposal has become a real law. If the request is refused, what happens? In short, I support the legislative proposal with the amendment and with these questions. I think it is an important step, both for the reputation and assurance of quality of our higher education, and for giving concrete hands and feet to the task of promoting social responsibility of our values, in our lecture halls, among students and teachers and everyone involved in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mr. Chairman. During the previous examination of this bill, the Labour Party has already expressed its appreciation. We believe that the values and forces of a diploma or degree should never be called into question. It is important that confidence in the quality and value of the education received is guaranteed. In the past, we have seen an increasing, and sometimes arbitrary, use of names for universities and colleges. This also happened in situations where there is serious doubt or even a finding that the educational institution concerned does not fully cover the load by this name. We therefore agree with the legal measures to clarify this for students, institutions and employers and thus to protect the good name of our higher education system. We therefore support the measures announced by the Minister to promote social responsibility within education. It must not be the case that a lecturer in higher education violates Article 1 of the Constitution and goes unpunished. During the first term of the legislative proposal, I followed with interest the discussion about, among other things, the sense of social responsibility, the use of the name lecturer, the provision of degrees and the complete cycle requirement. The Minister responded to this in her letter and I agree with her reasoning. Nevertheless, a number of questions have been raised and I am very curious to see how she will respond to them. There is another point that my group would like to dwell on, namely the use and translation of the name Lector. My group, like the Minister, attaches great importance to strengthening the professional column and cooperation between VMBO, MBO and HBO. The practice that lecturers work in both HBO and MBO can also, in our opinion, contribute to strengthening the professional column. As far as my group is concerned, the protection of the title of lecturer must not lead to any obstacle to such cooperation. We also believe that clear quality requirements should therefore be laid down for the lecturers. We would therefore like administrative agreements to be made on lecturers who are working or who have been appointed to the MBO. We agree that they must meet the quality requirements set by the Association of Colleges. Then I come to speak about the translation of the name Lector into English. We nurture the binary system and the distinction between colleges and universities. As far as we are concerned, the same distinction should also apply to the titles of lecturer and professor. It should not be the case that the translation of the name "lector" into English becomes "professor" because it creates confusion and may even open up the possibility of abuse. As far as my group is concerned, this bill is not an unnecessary luxury. After all, you are studying to develop your talents and obtain a reliable diploma that will make you enjoyable work and can be of value to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mrs Asante, it is nice to see that Mr Rog remains at the interrupt microphone for a few minutes while you continue with your story. I shall give the floor to Mr Rog, because I think it is the first interruption you will have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u40	You have a scoop, Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u41	What an honor! Mr President, I am only standing here, but you must give me your turn. I'll wait quietly. Mrs. Asante, you've said a lot of interesting things. I also sincerely hope that you will be able to support my amendment. I have amended this amendment precisely to remove the concerns you have expressed about the lecturerate. I hope the Minister sees it that way, and I am on your side. You indicated that you embraced the objective of the law. I also embrace it, but the question is what effects it has on some institutions. We all received a letter from the Free University of Applied Sciences; I think it fell into your mailbox too. The Vrije Hogeschool explicitly communicates that the programme consists of an intermediate year of liberal doctor. At the time I was in Free High School, it didn't have an English name, but that's just the way it is. The school also indicates that it makes it clear that there is no State-recognised diploma and that the training does not give access to other training courses. Do you agree with me that there is no deception? Would you also agree with me and Mr Bruins that such training should not be the victim, should not be some sort of collateral damage to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u42	In view of the letter, I'd say yes, but who knows what's gonna happen tomorrow? That is why I believe that the present legislative proposal is a good tool for ensuring that deception cannot take place in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u43	That's what we all want. We all want that deception not to happen. The modified amendment by the Christian Union and the CDA clearly sees those institutions which are quite clear that they do not mislead students. These courses offer only an intermediate year and therefore not a full four-year course under the title of university which only leads to a bachelor's degree. Would it not be reasonable to exclude these kinds of institutions, two of which are currently known in the Netherlands, from the consequences of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u44	What an institution is saying at the moment does not guarantee the future. Moreover, the Minister explained in her written response that it is not so much about what the institution is saying, but about the image that an institution creates. There is a condition at the level you must have reached in order to study at the institution. There is also simply a demand for money from students. Those are two elements that can encourage abuse. Anyway, I just received your amendment. I'll study it carefully. At the appropriate time, I will reply to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u45	You were done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u46	I'm done with my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u47	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group. He's already on his way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. Let me come back to something that may be confused among the other Members. It is right; I have contributed to that myself. My amendment to item No. 13 I meant to have already withdrawn when the Bruins/Rog amendment to item No. 15 was submitted. That didn't happen by mistake. I would like to withdraw this amendment. Then the Minister doesn't have to appreciate it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u49	The Rog amendment (Doc. 13) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u50	Mr. Chairman. This is exactly the subject with which I would like to begin, after thanking the Minister for her answers: the exceptions in the naming of the bill. I will advise my group to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop, Mr Rog and Mr Bruins. That's still true? I refer to what I said about this in the first term. I think that is a pure line, which can be used with regard to the handling of exceptions. I come to the sense of social responsibility, which is an extremely important point, and I have also stood still for a long time in the first term. I would ask the Minister to explain to me how she assesses potentially discriminatory judgments in relation to previous judgments of the judge. The Minister writes in her letter that she "follows the line of the judge or the Human Rights College" to assess what is a discriminatory expression. What exactly does that mean? Does this mean that a potentially discriminatory ruling should be 100% consistent with a ruling from, for example, an earlier criminal trial? Let us then look at the case of Islamic fake university. Previous judgments have been judged non-punitive by the Public Prosecutor. So there's no judge's ruling. Can the Minister do what it intends to do, and how does the Minister judge such statements from the framework she has outlined and the four steps that go with it? I have a motion on that point, too. If the Minister's answers are sufficient, I may withdraw that motion. Finally, the Minister said that she sees the top 200 of the Shanghai Ranking as the world summit. Now is a problem that a number of Dutch universities do not fall within that top 200. It seems rather special to me to ban foreign universities, which according to the ranking are better than Dutch universities, to call themselves "university" in the Netherlands. Is it not very worrying, by the way, that several of these Dutch universities, at least according to the Minister's criterion, are far below the world summit? How does the Minister feel about that? Is this a useful criterion, or should we refrain from doing so and is it a bit of a chat for the often? I mean from the Minister, Mr. Chairman. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u51	You wanted to file another motion, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u52	Oh, yeah! Thank you for reporting that. I did feel like I had something else to do. I've got three and a half minutes for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is very important that educational institutions in the Netherlands pay attention to the promotion of student social responsibility;]] [[noting that the Minister has the power to decide whether a particular judgment of a representative of an institution is discriminatory, even before a court has given a ruling, and that the Minister may subsequently decide to deprive an institution of the right to grant degrees under the WHW;]] [[calls on the Government to start the process of withdrawal of rights only after the alleged discriminatory ruling has been assessed by a court as discriminatory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34412-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u53	I am now going to have the same little debate as I just did with Mr Bruins on the first term. In the first period, we talked about whether you should do a judicial review before taking these steps. Can Mr Van Meenen imagine that, in this case, it might be a sound approach to talk to an institution first in order to give that institution the opportunity to get to know the situation better and to take corrective action yourself, before using that very heavy instrument of judicial review? You can talk about it first, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mr Duisenberg refers to judicial review as a very serious means, but we are talking here about decisions that are contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution. I could very well imagine, for example, that in such a case the Minister himself would make a declaration in order to determine what is going on. These kinds of situations come before the courts several times. The question of what is or is not prohibited in this country is not to cut with scissors. I have already made it very clear in the first term that I think it is a very risky path. It's about a university now why no one's gonna shed a tear when it's closed, including me. I called it a fake college myself. We are not making any legislation here, even though it is very similar because it is only a matter of closing down this university. However, this also opens the way to the Minister's assessment of all kinds of other representatives of institutions who sometimes say very strange things. I think it is a great deal that the Minister can decide on her own initiative whether she is going down the road of closure. You have to imagine what that means. Such situations have also occurred in the past in Christian schools, to name but a few. A case similar to that brought in by Mr Duisenberg was dealt with there. Even before there is any scrutiny, the closure of such a school is imminent. What does that mean for that school? That is almost a self-fulfilling prophecy, because if a school is about to close, it will break itself. On the contrary, I think it is very purely a matter of the role of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to carry out this ex ante review, if necessary by making a self-declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u55	It's different. The judicial review proposed by Mr Van Meenen is making something very large and public, while the path proposed by the Minister is an escalation ladder as we see it in other cases. You can make sure something happens between the minister and the institution before you go public. It is precisely in order to protect the position of the institution which is in good faith and wants to correct it that careful steps are taken in advance. If it gets serious at the end, there is always the possibility of judicial review. I really think they're exceptional cases. After the first conversation and after the reflection period of three months et cetera, where only the Chamber is informed confidentially or not, which is confidentiality is still an option now, but you can also ensure that it becomes purely confidential.I expect that the entire moment of review and disclosure, and the corresponding measures, will not be necessary in most cases, because the correction has already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u56	That all sounds very nice, but let us take the Islamic University Rotterdam as a case. This rector makes extremely reprehensible statements. It was certainly not the case that the Minister had a very discreet conversation with the institution. No, almost the same day we were standing here in the Chamber screaming, and that term is in this case a positive one, that it was a terrible shame and badly related to education. We even took motions. We're gonna pass a law on that right now. It's hard to describe that as a very discreet process. A discreet process also requires us to exercise absolute restraint here if tomorrow the next director of education seems to say things that are contrary to Article 1. It's not like that. If a representative of any educational institution in the Netherlands says such a thing, which seems to be so contrary to the sense of social responsibility and possibly Article 1 of the Constitution, it seems to me best that the Minister should simply report from her responsibility, if someone else has not already done so. I think that is very good and transparent. Then we know for sure whether it will be sustainable at the end. Mr Beertema can now say that we will start with the Islamic University of Rotterdam as soon as this law is in place, but if there is apparently no judicial ruling at this stage or if the prosecutor says that there could be no prosecution, I also know how it will end at the end. It is precisely in the interests of care that I think it is very important that we know in advance whether it is legally covered if we are going down the path of closing down an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u57	Briefly, Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u58	Mr Van Meenen has already asked the Minister how the case of the Islamic University Rotterdam would turn out. I would like, through him, to add a question to the Minister, namely to explain how this will work in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u59	I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u60	Wait a minute. This is an interruption to Mr Van Meenen. You are now asking him to ask the Minister another question, when he had already finished his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u61	That's right, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u62	That does not seem to me to be the right order of debate. I propose that we end with this and move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u63	Maybe I can respond to this for a while after all. I am not going to ask that question at all. I didn't ask questions, either. I just saw what happened in that case. That wasn't a process of talking quietly at first; it wasn't! Next time a verdict like this is made, it's not gonna happen. That's why I don't see this as a path that should start with a quiet conversation. That's never gonna happen, especially as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr. Chairman. My group supports the approach of this law. You could say at the most that it came a little late. As I said, in 2009, my esteemed nameake Jan Jacob van Dijk already presented a proposal to tackle the fake universities, as did yours truly, who asked questions about them. That was seven years ago. Today we are discussing the measures in this law and that is good. Let's get to work quickly. You can at most argue about whether or not there are exceptions in certain cases. Amendments have been tabled on this subject. The Minister writes on page 2 of her last letter: we can delete all exceptions; in that case I leave the judgment to your Chamber. At the same time, it discourages all the amendments; in the letter those are the amendments to item No. 9, 10 and 12. What exactly is her position? Does she still want to maintain exceptions? Or does she actually choose the direction of Beertema: all the exceptions? I'd like to get a response. As far as social responsibility is concerned, a mistake is actually being corrected, and that is a good thing. It was unintentional that this point would no longer count for non-cost institutions. That error is now being corrected. The question remains whether the governance of the now often mentioned Islamic University Rotterdam will now be addressed. Can the Minister give an update on the latest developments? In its first term, it made a sad announcement that the IUR had abandoned its cooperation in the NVAO's investigation. The Minister's instruments were completely exhausted. The NVAO and the inspection would still take stock. Has that balance been drawn up and what is the situation now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u65	Mr Van Dijk asks what the Minister himself thinks in a firm way. I have the same question to Mr Van Dijk about the possibility of exceptions. Mr Van Dijk says: that is a point of contention, you can argue about it. I wonder what his opinion is on allowing exceptions when this law is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u66	I am going to surprise you: I am fully behind the Minister's line today. She says this also on page 1 of her letter: I was initially inclined to be in principle in this; later I thought "let me do it pragmatically." You could, for example, exclude the people's university. Now you end up with the highly valued Free University, which I know well: shouldn't we also exclude it? Mr Bruins, I am going to discuss this intensively with my group. You'll notice what I'm going to vote on Tuesday. Mr Duisenberg had an interesting suggestion. He asked whether the Minister could enter into talks with the IUR immediately after the entry into force of the law and ask the IUR to withdraw the infamous statements of the rector. I think that's very clever. I was wondering why he didn't put that in a motion. What if the Minister says: my agenda is very full; that conversation is not a priority? Then we are empty-handed. Anyway, we assume the Minister's good will. I have another question in addition to Mr Duisenberg's suggestion. If the law enters into force, does the Minister have an instrument to appeal to the IUR that she does not even want to participate in the NVAO's investigation? In the first term, the Minister told us that the IUR had simply stopped doing so and did not cooperate. Isn't that an opening to call the IUR to order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u67	This ended the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u68	Mr. Chairman. A number of second-term questions have been asked about the various aspects of this bill, which indeed deal with very different issues. I would like to start with the questions about the complete cycle requirement, because I have not been able to answer them orally in the first period. I have only been able to do so in writing. It is a very important point for me. Let us note that Dutch higher education scores well internationally. The Netherlands is at the top in terms of locational climate, became known again yesterday. This also makes it clear that our excellent higher education system is an important driver of the Dutch economy and represents a competitive advantage for the Netherlands over other countries. The quality of higher education is also good. I say to Mr Van Meenen that thirteen of our institutions are almost all in the top 200 of the Times Higher Education Ranking. I'll get back to his question about the relationship with the names. But I would like to point out here that most of our universities are in the top 100. There is therefore great confidence in the quality of our higher education system. This is partly due to the demands of new entrants to this system. I really don't intend to change that either. Now there is an amendment which does change that accession and makes it much easier for unpaid institutions. I do not think this is desirable, because I think it is of the utmost importance that the quality of our higher education is non-negotiable and that students can rely on it. Students should never, I say, never suffer from poor quality education due to the lack of quality guarantees. Therefore, an institution must be assessed in advance before it can display itself as an educational institution, in this case as a higher education institution. In our higher education, once established and accepted, an institution has many freedoms. It is then very difficult to take down a number of rights. Last year we discussed very extensively the quality of higher education within the framework of the accreditation system. These have been lengthy discussions, in which the guaranteed quality of education has always been paramount. Mr Duisenberg said it very impregnantly at the time. I quote: "Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. Then there's no room for thoughtless experiments with students. Quality must be beyond any doubt." It is precisely this reasoning that forces me to ensure that training of an acceding institution, an institution which has not already proved able to offer quality beyond any doubt, must have proved itself in all aspects of quality assurance before I grant the new power to give legal degrees. This is not new. The complete cycle requirement has been in place for a long time. However, the 2013 law strengthens quality assurance and higher education, the basis for this law is mistakenly more general. The aim was only a technical change. Now, a statement by the Council of State in April of this year shows that its effects are more far-reaching. The Council of State has said that it has become an insufficient legal basis for this complete cycle requirement. I'm restoring that omission now, nothing more and nothing less. If we don't fix it, then I don't have any effective tool to pre-check the quality, other than a paper test. Maybe it's good to explain again how that goes in higher education. That is different, for example, than in po and vo. In higher education, it is also about the role of inspection. Now the NVAO evaluates the actual proven quality in a complete cycle requirement. It evaluates not only the plans of training, but also whether the training that performs well, whether the final test meets and whether students are given the quality they are entitled to. The inspection doesn't check for that. It only looks at the continuity and compliance with legal requirements. If the role of the NVAO falls away from that complete cycle requirement, the quality is not proven. In fact, we only look at quality on paper. In last year's discussions, all spokesmen mentioned the great importance of the quality of training and institutions and said that they should be above all doubt. If the Chamber takes this seriously, it is necessary for me to address new institutions not only to what they put on paper, but also to what they actually do. That is what we are doing with the complete cycle requirement. If we do not do that, which would follow from the amendment tabled, we will actually open the door to new providers. And it's not that simple to get it out of the order again. May I give an example of the EuroPort Business School, a quality under-performing programme? It has already been dealt with by the criminal court, but is still in our order as a result of several legal proceedings. I have been suing this institution for more than three years and I have still not been able to put an end to this training. This means that students are studying for years at an education which we all know is of insufficient quality. If there is no pre-test of a complete cycle, the first time the quality of the training can be considered is after three years. If it is then found that this training is not good, I have to go on a very complicated course, as at the EuroPort Business School, in order to put an end to these training courses. All these years, therefore, money and valuable time and energy are wasted on these training courses. This is especially at the disadvantage of the students, because it is their time, money and energy. Students suffer from this. So I would like to stress that I find it very undesirable to open this road further. Now I am sensitive to Mr Duisenberg's comment, which says: we do want innovation in the system. Now innovation, especially in higher education, is to be shaped through uncosted education, because the funded education is actually a closed system. There must be no more institutions. I believe the last formal was Open University. Something has changed at the University of Theology, but these were mainly technical changes. Furthermore, there is no room for new institutions in the funded system. In the uncosted system, yes. If we are now asking for a complete cycle, the question is whether there is still room for new entrants. I wrote to the Chamber earlier that 14 institutions have joined the order. I have to correct that now. We have looked at this again and it appears that twelve institutions have joined the system in recent years. If I'm right, that's the last five years. What matters now is that the complete cycle requirement for new entrants does not prove to be an unreasonable requirement. If we could not have allowed any more new institutions, perhaps the Chamber had a point. However, accession remains possible. Ten of these twelve new institutions provided a curriculum. So they went through the whole cycle, before they were recognized as rpho, became a recognized higher education institution. In fact, they took care of the entire training course, in which students took final exams. During that period there was still some transitional problem, because the Rpho's were introduced in the Wet Reinforcement Control Act. Before that they were so-called "designated institutions'. That was the case for two institutions, where, incidentally, education was already provided. So the claim that no new institutions have joined since 2011, over the last five years, is incorrect. That's exactly what happened. Those are very different universities and institutions: the Stichting Deeltijd Opleidingen, the Dutch Defence Academy, but also the Dutch Defence Academy, Mr Duisenberg will address this question as well as the Duisenberg School of Finance, as well as the Nederlandse Loodsencorporatie, De Nederlandse Fotovakschool and the Islamic University of Europe. That is another than the Islamic University of Rotterdam, which we have debated in the context of another part of this law. In short, I would like to stress that I strongly advise against Mr Duisenberg's and Mr Rog's amendments. I believe that it does not do justice to one of the important pillars, which I thought we agreed on. I am convinced that I hope that I have been able to justify this with facts, and that the current system of innovation in higher education is still possible. So I would like to hear from Members what they think of this amendment. If this is adopted, I must consider the whole of this law. This affects a very important part of the quality assurance of the entire system of higher education. I would like to see such a large increase for private entrants if these institutions do not deliver the quality they promise. Then I have to watch for years that students receive education below the standards and I can do nothing or hardly anything about it. I really learned my lessons with the EuroPort Business School. That was an extraordinary, extremely frustrating experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u69	The Minister knows the procedures in this Chamber. Next week the amendments will be voted on, and then it will be clear what the various groups are like. However, the Minister's invitation was so explicit that I allow Members, if they need it, to respond to it. However, it is not the order of the debate, because next week at the vote it will be clear what the parties are like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u70	The following is important for my opinion next Tuesday, provided that the amendment is still there. The amendment is about not being in the way of innovation, but it is also about the position of students who start such training and who have no idea during those four years whether they will receive a diploma at the end. How does the Minister view this uncertainty? Isn't that bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u71	In my view, I have just argued in detail that it may be possible to conclude after three years that this training is not at the level, that I then need years to close down an institution, and therefore that training, and that in all these years the students in particular are the victims. They are the ones who put their time, energy and money into it. I find that unacceptable from the point of view of the protection of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u72	But I was referring precisely to the uncertainty of students when the complete cycle requirement comes. Then there is a four-year period in which the student has started training but does not know if he will ever receive an accreditation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u73	If the threat of such a complete cycle requirement is there, the institution will have to do its best to achieve it. If that is not the case, at least you have lost no more than one cycle. That is, in principle, three or four years and not six or seven years. In addition, in such a case a student also knows that he is starting an unaccredited education. This may still lead to uncertainty, but at least there will be clarity. Then there is no idea, and therefore the deception, that it is an accredited training. If we allow this in line with the amendment, it will also give students the expectation that it will be a quality and safe education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u74	The form is now a bit curious: the Minister not only gives an appreciation of one amendment in the interim, but also asks the Chamber to do so. I think we're gonna weigh it all down. In my turn, I would just like to say to the Minister that for my group a number of amendments weigh very heavily and that the appreciation of the Minister is therefore very much in favour of our position on the whole law. I think that's how it works. A law is a law, including the amendments adopted. I am going to go on with the substance of this point. Indeed, the Minister says that in 2013 the complete cycle requirement was mistakenly dropped for private educational institutions. Is it true that at the time of the cycle requirement, 75% of the nominal duration of the study could already be applied for and that this is only now after four years? In that case, the Minister would now like to restore something legally, but thus make the demand heavier than it was in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u75	I said I'm recovering an omission. If he appreciates that, I would like to say to Mr Rog that in the next few days I will be able to do exactly as I do in legal terms, otherwise this will be a very complicated legal discussion; I think we should do so in writing and indicate what was in the law for 2013, which changed in 2013 and how we are now putting it back to the 2013 situation. It's not my intention to make it stricter than before. Once again, in 2013 we intended to make a technical change, and we found out last year or this year by the Council of State that it has gained substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u76	The discussion has so far been easy to follow, also for me as a non-expert. So I would say, continue. But if you choose to send a letter, I think it is a good thing that the Chamber has heard it in good time, having heard the various Members and also with a view to weighing up the various groups. Can you promise me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u77	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u78	Then that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u79	This will therefore be mainly a legal explanation, namely: what was in the law, what was in the law and how do we intend to put it back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u80	We're gonna wait for that letter, but I'd like to have absolute clarity here. If Mr Duisenberg, who is sitting behind me, also listens...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u82	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Do I understand correctly that the Minister is now putting the so-called 'nuclear option' on the table? She says: if the amendment to item No. 18 is adopted, am I going to consider the law? In plain Dutch: does she then consider withdrawing the bill? Did I get that correctly? And do the proposers also realize that all these beautiful things, namely the protection of names and degrees and the promotion of social responsibility, will no longer be realized? Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u83	Yeah, that's right. There are several elements in this law that are important. I strongly believe that we are guaranteeing naming and that we are preventing deception. I attach great importance to the appointment of the social responsibility of institutions. However, I also attach great importance to ensuring the quality of new entrants and new training courses. If this amendment is adopted, I will achieve something in terms of names and degrees and social responsibility. However, if at the same time I open the door to a situation which I consider to be very undesirable because of one of the key responsibilities I have as a minister, namely ensuring quality assurance of higher education, including new training courses and new institutions, then I find that extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u84	The Minister comes up with a number of arguments that I disagree with. First of all, it makes a caricature when it says that it is going to get into serious trouble in terms of quality assurance and its responsibility if the amendment is adopted. But she completely ignores the following. As is the case when a new training is requested in the funded education, a test of new training is also carried out, the extensive NVAO test of new training, with an intermediate test a few years later. Furthermore, the inspection shall assess whether the training or the institution complies with all legal frameworks, with the continuity requirement et cetera. There is therefore an extensive ex ante review. Not only MPs but also experts in the field say that this is actually a comprehensive quality assurance and that the additional requirement that is now being laid down is not necessary for this quality assurance. Secondly, the Minister makes a caricature of the innovation numbers. First, fourteen institutions would have joined. Later that became twelve. However, she forgets to say that it is mainly about shorter courses. That has to do with what goes wrong here. That innovation is not happening because it is such an incredibly long bump that you have to overcome. Especially if you want to start a Bachelor's programme here, the complete cycle requirement means that you have to wait four years before you actually know what you can do. So if you want to start something new, you have to recruit students and say: sorry, but we can't promise you anything; you don't get a title with us. This means that many courses do not even want to start in the Netherlands, and that the courses where they did succeed are usually the shorter ones. Those are the training courses on the Minister's list. I therefore believe that this is an obstacle to innovation. There are also examples of training courses that have not been accepted for this reason. Does the Minister want a purely closed order or does she say: no, I am actually in favour of an open order, I also want innovation and I can find another solution to this, but not the way I have done it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u85	I want a system that moves where necessary with the needs of society and the economy. This can be done by starting new training courses. The higher education system really doesn't work like po, vo and mbo. Once you are in there, there is the space to start new courses. This is even easier in the case of uncosted institutions, because there is no efficiency test. In a new programme, therefore, it is only examined whether one has plans and how one intends to fill in the curriculum, but with that you will test paper. You're hoping that's how they're gonna do it, but you don't know if they're gonna do it. The inspection in higher education does not assess the quality, but for example whether there is a intention to set up an examination board, and whether administrative and financial continuity seem to be in order. But that too is an expectation and not a concrete, effective review. So I do not share Mr Duisenberg's view that there are sufficient possibilities for scrutiny, because it is only after three years that we can look at the real quality of training. I note that the institutions that are already there are many, even in the cost-free higher education system, very well able to start new courses. In this sense, they have a light test of new training courses. I also note that there are many new training courses and that institutions with shorter and longer training have joined in recent years. It is not my ambition to get as much uncosted education as possible, as it is not my ambition to privatise the education system and to steer it entirely on uncosted education. Nor do I think that the system should be totally a closed shop, in which no one can ever join. However, it has to be weighed well. As far as quality is concerned, I would remind Mr Duisenberg of the accreditation debate, in which he was one of the first to demand quality as an unnegotiable point. That's what we're doing here. Similarly, new accession and innovation must never be at the expense of quality. I actually see the data on the locational environment and the role of higher education that have recently appeared as a confirmation of the line we are using now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u86	We do not agree on two things, and I fear that we will simply remain on different wavelengths. The first point is that the Minister has an idea of what quality assurance is. The only thing we agree on is that quality is very important. The Minister knows that's what I'm fighting for. However, my assessment is that quality assurance in this case is also good without that complete cycle requirement. That's not only my assessment, I'm of course not an expert myself, but also that of experts in the field. They say: what is now a legal framework is good and sufficient. The second point is the image we have of the openness of the system. I'm not preaching that we should go to a completely private system. That is a caricature of what we are proposing here. But if you want innovation, you don't want to make it unnecessarily difficult for the new entrants. With this quality assurance you make it unnecessarily difficult, but in that respect we speak alongside each other. The Minister is bumping four years for new training and that means that these new training courses are not going to be there, or that they are short courses, if they are already there. So you stop innovation, but unfortunately we speak on different wavelengths.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u87	I find it unimaginable to conclude that we are stopping innovation, while yesterday we heard that the Netherlands is at the top of the list of establishments. Under competitive economies, the Netherlands scores very well and all these surveys and surveys refer to the quality of higher education in the Netherlands. So if we want to hold on to something and secure it with all the dynamics in the world around us, it's that quality. I am truly surprised because we have had the discussion during the accreditation debate or you can trust institutions. Can you do without an attitude test? Because you have it well on paper and because you have consultation with institutions and because you have good plans, we trust that you will do it well. At that time, Mr Duisenberg considered it undesirable and wanted it to be firmly on paper. That is exactly what is happening here now in the interest of students. Ultimately, the importance of students is more important than the speed of joining new institutions. I would add that once you have joined a higher education system, the tests are all light. That means that once you're through this, you've proven to deserve trust and that you fit in with the strict Dutch system of higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u88	Finally, Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u89	I'm gonna have to respond to this. We don't sell bullshit here in three ways. We have talked about flat one, our vision of whether quality assurance with or without a complete cycle requirement is sufficient. The second was innovation. The Minister clearly likes a very closed system, where I advocate innovation for higher education. Just three is the vision of the accreditation system. The Minister deliberately recalls this discussion, because the point of view of that discussion was whether you want to have accreditation at educational level or at institution level. What's with the primate? The counter-proposal received by the Minister on this accreditation discussion had nothing to do with strict rules and that sort of thing. In our counter-proposal, we have chosen the level of education and given room for manoeuvre and confidence by removing some of the existing frameworks. I find the angle of view and the frame very unfortunate, so unfortunately we differ on three main points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u90	We don't agree. I note that in that discussion too, the quality of the level of education was very important. That is what we are talking about here, because we are talking about new entrants. An entrant is not an abstract institution, but an institution that wants to offer training. Then you want to make sure that this education is of sound quality and that it can never be blackmailed. That's what I'm doing here. I find it strange that innovation can apparently only exist when new private parties join. That is a form of privatisation, and that is not my view. Innovation also means that you can combine training courses or introduce new courses with a good plan. Indeed, I am not in favour of a completely open order, because that would ultimately mean a huge competitive battle involving as many students as possible for as many training courses as possible. This is to the detriment of quality and will ultimately lead to the privatisation of higher education. I will therefore stick to my judgment, but I would like to assure you that, because of the scope of this amendment, you will still have to be informed of the legal aspects. I will take all the amendments, some of which have been tabled very recently; some of them this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u91	It is now the case that you have already commented on a number of amendments by letter. I therefore assume that these comments will not change anymore. As President of this debate, I would ask you to comment on the amendments that have now been amended during this debate. Otherwise, it will be a kind of unfinished debate and the Chamber will have to judge immediately on the basis of a letter. However, I also place this in the hands of the Members of Parliament and how they view it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u92	I can tell you that, of course, I have that intention. But I note that amendments have only been tabled an hour before the start of this debate. I think I should have the opportunity to take a legal look at that. I gave my opinion on most of the amendments in the letter and will now deal with amendments. Let me do that by addressing first the subject of 'lector', that is to say Mr Rog's amendment. That is an amended amendment to item No. 17, if I'm right. In the first term, I have already indicated that I attach importance to the cooperation between MBO and HBO and that I am also pleased to read in the explanatory statement to the amendment that Mr Rog recognizes this. I also see the importance he attaches to cooperation with the MBO. I understand his wording very well. He attaches great importance to cooperation. We share that, I think, but he wants the title of lecturer to be reserved for HBO and that someone doing research at MBO should be called "practor." A lecturer can work on the HBO and the MBO, but not only on the MBO. I have indicated earlier that it is my preference to engage in discussions with the sectoral councils and to make administrative arrangements on this matter. However, I also understand Mr Rog's reasoning. I am very pleased with the explanation he has given of his amendment. I also see the advantage of clarity and clarity. I also note that the explanatory statement to the amendment clearly shows that it does not restrict developments within the group column. If the Chamber attaches to clarity and therefore very strict a professor at the university, a lecturer at the HBO and a practicor at the MBO and there is no other position possible, I leave the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber. But I've said before that I have a preference for administrative arrangements. I still do, but I can live very well with this amendment. If this is the intention, one lecturer who now works at an MBO setting will have to change his name. That may be unfortunate for him, but not insurmountable. I shall now turn to Mr Rog's motion for a resolution. 21, in which he asks the government, in cooperation with practical research, to settle something within the MBO and to make a protected title of the practorate. In my view, this is in line with the amendment I was just talking about, namely a clear positioning. For the same reason as I have just mentioned in the amendment, I shall leave this motion to the House. A question has also been asked about the title "Professor" and its use abroad. I have already indicated in the written reply that the translation of the lecturer is 'associated professor'. I also said that the meaning and use of the title in the Anglo-Saxon language area is much wider than in the Netherlands. There's the assistant professor. He is sometimes called simply professor, while in our higher education he is a teacher. They don't know the binary system we have there either. Reasoning from the binary system, which I have already mentioned, I believe that the distinction between professor and lecturer and therefore the translation "associated professor" for lecturer abroad is well explained. Then I come to the social responsibility of higher education institutions. During the first period, we discussed the balance between the principle of non-absence of existing principles of law and the desire to be able to take clear action, often following statements by the rector of the Islamic University of Rotterdam. I have also indicated at that time that I am not going to repeat that the principal has, as far as I am concerned, crossed the line of what is permissible. I have also indicated that it is not possible to intervene at the moment. 'Not possible' is still put mildly, because I have turned all the means at my disposal inside out, not one or two but more than three times. I have to say that we are not getting any further. The NVAO and the inspection are in the process of taking stock, I say to Mr Van Dijk. I do not have high expectations of this, but of the NVAO and the inspection but not of what they can do. Mr Van Dijk asks if I have an instrument with the law to appeal to the Islamic University of Rotterdam to stop. No, I can only withdraw the accreditation in case of a lack of quality. Administrative agreements must be made on the basis of mutual trust. There was no such mutual trust, but breaking it is no basis for withdrawal. We have already found that accreditation frameworks do not provide sufficient ground to withdraw accreditation for training. That's why we just started this whole exercise. It can be done on the basis of the sense of social responsibility. I am not saying for the first time that these are complicated problems to prepare legislation. These are new social problems, which also have to do with international developments. It is not easy to indicate what you consider admissible and to include a translation of it in the law. I would like to point out that yesterday the Chamber adopted a motion calling on the government to take action to prevent prayer houses in the Netherlands from being financed by the Turkish government. This is a problem which is quite similar to that of social responsibility. The Prime Minister has made it very clear about the Turkish Houses of Prayer that this is an extremely undesirable situation, but that it listens closely to behaviour that does not fit in with the Dutch democratic rule of law whether or not the government can intervene. He has already pointed out that it will also be extremely complicated in that case. I do not want the Cabinet and the Chamber to have repeated discussions about situations that the Chamber first says they cannot and that the government should intervene, after which we do our best to do this extremely carefully and considered. Therefore, we are taking a little longer to come up with legislation that meets new societal challenges, but then the Chamber says: should it not be in the old way and does this legislation relate to all kinds of elements relating to the rule of law and the Constitution? Of course, that has to be weighed up very carefully. I would very much like to do that with the Chamber. We did that in the first term, and we should do that now. But in the end, we also have to make a choice. If we want to put an end to certain situations, we must also be prepared to change the standards in the law. We, the Chamber and I, are the legislators. We have the judiciary to review that legislation. We shouldn't turn that around. I also see colleagues struggling with this issue, but with the greatest care there is still a search for new ways, I say to Mr Bruins, who asked why we should not leave it to the courts. For example, my colleague from V and J is also faced with these kinds of challenges, such as the legislation to deprive jihadists of Dutch citizenship. In that bill, V and J apply the criterion "risk to the security of the State'. This is in line with the responsibility of the Minister of V and J. He's about the rule of law. For example, if you break V and J standards, you can go to jail. I have another responsibility, namely for the system of higher education. So I do not want to produce legislation that takes the whole of the rule of law with me. No, I want to appoint my responsibility for the sector. Breach of standards that I propose can only result in an institution no longer being part of our system or a financial sanction being imposed. No more and no less there either. It does not mean that anyone can go to prison, it just means that we say: you are so far away from your social responsibility, that we no longer think it acceptable that public funds, taxes that all Dutch people pay together, go to your institution. In this context, I have chosen the criterion of'social responsibility', which focuses on the prohibition of discrimination. I strongly say to Mr Bruins that I do not do that because I like only Article 1 of the Constitution so much and because I would like to sweep all the other articles of the Constitution under the carpet. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, I only did it because I am trying to find a focus, because "social responsibility" as such can still be quite broad. I believe that I should limit the responsibility of myself and my successors in order not to make it too easy, especially with regard to other fundamental rights. Of course, Article 23 is part of this. That's a very big good. So I do not intend to put an end to Article 23 in a smart and "on the one hand" way. Not at all, definitely not. However, it is our intention to keep our legislation up to date in those very undesirable situations, which are relatively new. I do not want to be accused of being empty-handed when we are faced with situations like this. The Chamber has told me very widely over the last few years: Minister, do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u93	I would like to thank the Minister for this explanation, which gives me a great deal of clarity. I do wonder how the narrower focus relates to the broadening in the letter when it comes to calling for jihad and sowing hatred. How does the Minister assess the balance between this narrowing and widening? Can she say a few words about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u94	What exactly do you mean by that? The broadening and containment of what exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u95	The Minister does not want to narrow it down to the aspect of discrimination, but at the same time we are looking for a law enabling the Minister to take action if, for example, a director calls for a jihad. That is not necessarily discrimination, but we do want it to be covered. How can I rhyme this with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u96	Mr Duisenberg also asked a question about a case calling for armed jihad. I'd like to answer that question right away. The principle of discrimination is a focus, but sometimes, in a clear sense, the rule of law is seriously affected. The concept of'state of law' contained in the original motion by Mr Duisenberg and Mr Van Dijk also appeals to me. This only offers few handles to make it applicable in the law. In my letter earlier this week, I indicated that the provision as formulated in the bill makes it possible to tackle other obvious excesses, such as explicitly calling for an armed jihad, after situations of discrimination. In such extreme cases, we agree that this affects the foundations of the rule of law. In that case, it is obvious that the promotion of social responsibility is not met. At that time, an institution cannot give credibility to the task of promoting the sense of social responsibility. This discrimination clause is therefore a way of ensuring that the scope of the Minister's intervention is not too wide. But where, in the opinion of many and with full conviction and proof, all the standards of the rule of law are so violated, for example in calls for jihad, that can be a basis for that sense of social responsibility. That is why we are starting with this in the legislative proposal. That makes it possible to intervene in an institution. But none of that can just happen. I have looked at how this should be done in the first period, and I have explained this once again in the letter. For that, I indicated the roadmap. I say to Mr Van Meenen that we are indeed looking at what has happened in case law and what judges have already done. As a first step, I will look at whether the expression is contrary to existing legislation, such as criminal law and equal treatment laws. In doing so, I will follow the line of what has previously been considered discriminatory by the judge or by the College of Human Rights. So I am testing the existing framework of standards. Suppose a dean of the faculty writes in a tweet that Moroccans are not suitable for university education because they do not have the required level. Let me first look at the case law on this point, for example a 2010 ruling on a company that did not want to hire Moroccan applicants in order to ensure a balanced composition of staff. That was forbidden discrimination on the grounds of race. From that statement I can derive assessment criteria that could be used if something like that were to happen in higher education. Those assessment criteria can also be used in the case of a different prohibition of discrimination, such as discrimination against women or homosexuals. In the second step of the procedure, I will check whether the expression is covered by academic freedom or other fundamental right, such as freedom of education. Here he comes again: Article 23. Whether this is the case is determined by the context in which the expression was made. If there is academic freedom or any other fundamental right, then my potential interference will cease. The third step shall determine whether the expression can be charged to the institution. Then I take action and the Chamber comes back into the picture. Even with this wording, it is not so easy for a minister to call an institution to order. At least it's a lead in the law that we don't have right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u97	I agree with all the steps, except for the beginning. I have already warned in the first period that we will have a Minister of Education who will determine whether something is contrary to fundamental rights in our society. That seems to me to be an extremely dangerous development. Moreover, the Minister is showing that these kinds of social developments are all new, but these kinds of developments have been taking place for a long time. There have been situations for a long time in which, for example, directors of reformed schools have expressed themselves in a way that you and I may consider discriminatory. There have been statements about this. Let us focus on the situation of the Islamic University of Rotterdam. There have been several statements. The state's attorney's office has established that it's not a criminal offence. There are several statements that say it's not a criminal offence. How, then, did the Minister arrive at the next step in her process on the basis of these statements? Based on what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u98	If so, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u99	Well, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u100	If, according to the judge, the judgments are not discriminatory and they do not fall into the extreme category, then I will not intervene. The problem at the Islamic University of Rotterdam is that, as far as I know, such statements have not been made recently. There haven't been any reports either. I even called for a report, but I haven't heard from anyone that he did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u101	No, me neither. I do miss one person, and that's the minister himself. That's my point, too. I think it is very sensible to have that legal test at the very beginning or a legal indication that the fundamental rights of our country are being violated. We should not first get an opinion from a minister on this. How will the Minister objectively establish that there is such a situation at the beginning, other than through the intervention of a judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u102	By looking at the case law; that is what I have just indicated. That's exactly what we're doing. We're the ones making the law here. We are looking at what is already the case law. Look at all the other complicated laws. May I give an example of medical ethics? Then we always do it. We always look at case law there and then we lay down a standard in the law. You could do that here, too. We find a standard of social responsibility and discrimination. We're looking at the judge's statements. If I do not handle this carefully, then there is always the Chamber to stop it, but perhaps it is even more authoritative in your reasoning that the judge can do the same. The institution affected can go to court and the judge can call me back to order. In this way, we develop case law on the interpretation of the law. I believe that we are doing so in our system with separate powers in many other areas too, and so we must do so here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u103	I believe that the Minister has arrived at his assessment of Mr Van Meenen's motion. After all, it is about this issue. Perhaps now the Minister will be able to give his opinion on the motion in part No. Twenty-three?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u104	I dissuade that motion for this reason. I have already indicated that I very much limit the freedom of movement for myself with all these steps. If I have to leave everything to the judge, then... look, the judge can't judge an institution in a sector like higher education. The judge may or may not agree with a person who has filed a complaint and, for example, issue a fine. A judge cannot say that an institution can no longer obtain accreditation or that an institution should be sanctioned by the inspection. If we leave it to the judge alone, we will ignore what this whole discussion has started, namely to appoint the sector responsibility for higher education. In my opinion, we have all found that we had that throughout education, except in uncosted higher education. We thought that was undesirable, because then it would be an empty article. We are doing this, not only in view of the case of the Islamic University of Rotterdam, but also in view of the discussions we are having in broad terms about the jihad. I am referring to the motion adopted yesterday on institutions in the Netherlands financed from Turkey. We must then reflect together on how we can provide the various sectors of education with the tools to intervene where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u105	Mr President, on a point of order, I think you no longer intend to give me the floor!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u106	Well, you've had three turns. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u107	I'm sure you are, but we're in the middle of a legal process here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u108	I'm sure you do, Mr Van Meenen. I am the chairman, and I have left everyone to the floor. I listen very carefully to the arguments that are being exchanged. The Minister has given her judgment. I do not have the impression that you are getting closer at the moment. I also have the task of guarding order. I want to treat everyone equally. It's legislation. I know exactly what's going on. You will be given the floor one more time at this point and then no more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u109	Mr President, that seems perfectly right to me, because it seems to me that I should be allowed to respond to the opinion of the Minister on my motion. It's very noble of you to allow it. In my view, the Minister completely ignores the reasoning. It also uses arguments which are not at all mine, for example that I would say that at the beginning a judge should give an opinion on whether or not an institution should survive. No, this whole situation begins with the statement of someone speaking on behalf of an educational institution. My only argument is that it is not up to the Minister to determine whether or not that is contrary to the law. But on a hunch that's true, her whole follow-up is based. I'm having a lot of trouble with that. It will happen to you that you are a Christian school, that your director says something about women or about gays, and that then the minister says: I don't like that; so I'm going on the path of closing that school. What does that mean if there has not been an objective judicial review of whether that ruling is actually contrary to the law? It can't be that the Minister does that, can it? That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u110	That's not gonna happen. As I have explained in detail, I have to check that against what the College of Human Rights has said, and I have to check it against other fundamental rights. I'm not just gonna say: I don't like the statement about women, about gays or anyone else. That's exactly why I'm making all these guarantees. In fact, you place the sense of social responsibility only on the courts. I'm very surprised. This means that this Parliament is giving its power out of its hands and moving it to the courts, whereas I believe that the law sets the standard and then sets the judge. I would find it undesirable to completely reverse that situation and say that the judge is more important than what we set as a standard here. I therefore advise against this motion, partly because, as I say again, it is always only individual cases. Someone who feels affected can go to court, but you can't go to court about an institution. That really is a crucial difference. You do not start from criminal law or from the rule of law alone, but from the reasoning that the sector is responsible, from the sector's responsibility for education and from the sense of responsibility that we have regulated elsewhere in education legislation. I believe that there is also the protection of other fundamental rights, with freedom of expression and therefore academic freedom in general very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u111	My interruption is intended to clarify and to strengthen the debate. First of all, I welcome the answer given by the Minister to Mr Bruins' interruption on the scope, the way in which you can explain this when, for example, calls are made to the jihad. I think the Minister has explained this very adequately. As far as Mr Van Meenen's motion is concerned, I feel that the debate is very focused on whether or not the judge, while I think Mr Van Meenen's question is how to make the review as objective as possible at the beginning. It is therefore not just a question of how it is laid down in case law or in the law, but also of whether the review is as objective as possible for those who carry out it. The image that Mr Van Meenen has, and probably others do, is that the Minister sits down with a number of legal advisers and that they reach a verdict. I feel that the spirit of Mr Van Meenen's motion is to make that review a little more objective. Whether the Minister should explain why the method envisaged by the Minister is very objective. Mr Van Meenen undoubtedly has every confidence in the Minister, Mrs Bussemaker. In himself, in Van Meenen himself, he will still have faith. But what if I were there or Mr Van Dijk; imagine! That's the image he's got: suppose Van Dijk or anyone else sits there, then what happens? I know the motion is asking for the judge. But can the Minister provide more comfort when it comes to the objectivity of the test in advance? How do the people there come to that judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u112	I'm glad you asked me that again. There are, of course, people at the table; that will be my lawyers and advisers and higher education experts. They will have to test a particular case against the existing framework of standards. Those are the judgments of judges, case law. Those are statements from the College of Human Rights. I think some of them might also consider the political debate that is taking place here. On this basis, they are making a proposal. That's step one. Then they follow the other steps. If it turns out that there is no case law, that there is no ruling from the College of Human Rights, and that there is no point of reference at other authoritative institutions, such as the House of Representatives, it would be rather bizarre if the Minister decided to take the measure. If that institution then goes to court, you already know in advance that you are being whistled back by the judge. So you really need to make a very good assessment and to align yourself with the current framework of standards. This framework of standards is developing in a very important part of the case law, which is in line with the framework of standards developed by the Chamber as co-legislator and which we have established in the Constitution. It will therefore also have to be assessed in the light of other fundamental rights. That is, to a large extent, step two. If it is not contrary to the freedom of education and academic freedom, then the Minister's influence will stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u113	I'm starting to get a picture of the process outlined by the Minister. I understand now how the Minister wishes to observe that the sense of social responsibility is not being met. The next step is to determine an appropriate sanction. Can the Minister imagine that this process is also taking place in steps? I am sympathetic to Mr Van Meenen's reasoning, because if you impose a penalty immediately that the accreditation of the training is withdrawn, the students in particular will be the victims. I could imagine that you would initially impose an administrative fine and that if it happens again, you would impose an even higher administrative fine. In the process of imposing sanctions, the withdrawal of accreditation of training should be the last step. Is such a roadmap conceivable in the process the Minister sees ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u114	Yes. In fact, I wrote that in my letter to the Chamber. I'm gonna get that letter right now. Step four examines whether or not it is covered by academic freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of religion and so on, and step three examines whether the institution itself can be counted on. Only if the answer is yes will I give the institution a warning. That warning shall be followed within a period of at least three months. I have already indicated that I will share that warning with the Chamber, so she can call me to order at that time. When deciding on a warning, the question arises as to whether an institution has already crossed the line. I will not act if an institution explicitly distances itself from (discriminatory) expressions, and certainly not if (disciplinary) measures are taken against the person who did the expressions. The institution therefore still has the opportunity to intervene at that time. If that doesn't happen, I'll take action. In such a case, non-costed institutions will be deprived of the right to award degrees, because I cannot resort to other sanctions in this respect. That institution will no longer be part of the system of higher education. Such a measure shall be subject to an appeal and an appeal. However, I am not changing anything with regard to the institutions that have been financed, because we can intervene in this respect by means of funding. Two other motions have been tabled on this point. In his motion in part No. 20 Mr Bishop asked the government to examine the possibilities for monitoring the impact of non-cost education on the rule of law. The problem is that we do not have enough opportunities for monitoring measures. I have considered this in many different ways in recent years. By placing our sense of social responsibility as a task with non-costed institutions, the inspection can look at influences dangerous to the rule of law. Such an investigation is therefore unnecessary in my view. I have done so very extensively in recent times. So I'm gonna advise against that motion. Mr Bertema's motion for a resolution 22 calls on the government to implement the law as soon as it enters into force and to withdraw accreditation of the IUR. I don't recommend that motion. I have also had this debate with Mr Duisenberg in the first place. In part, I say to him that I can't intervene until the law has come into force. I cannot therefore ask you to withdraw previous statements. This brings me back to complying with constitutional principles: there must first be a fact to which you must respond. Legislation can never apply retroactively in this sense. That goes for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u115	I'm holding this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u116	At the request of Mr Bertema, I propose his motion (34412, No. 22), as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 19 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u117	Finally, I come to the naming. We have already talked about this quite extensively in the first period. I indicated in my letter that you can think about this in different ways. I also indicated that I originally considered a principled approach, but that I finally thought that you could also follow a more pragmatic reasoning. If you follow a pragmatic reasoning, the question is where to put the limit. Mr Rog, Mr Bruins and Mr Bishop pointed this out. The amendment in part No. 19 of the members Rog and Bruins also want this to apply to the Evangelical University of Applied Sciences and the Vrije Hogeschool. You can also opt for a different approach, as I indicated in the letter. On this point, Mr Beertema has tabled an amendment, the amendment on item No. 16. He says, "Don't do it anywhere." The Kindergarten University and all the other institutions must change their names. Mr Bishop, with his amendment to item No. 10 to another route. He wants to give institutions the opportunity to draw up a sort of list on which they can indicate whether they are granting degrees. I find this approach really undesirable, because it can become a very complicated bureaucratic exercise. Institutions will then have to indicate what they are doing. I don't think that control can ever be completely waterproof. I therefore continue to dissuade that amendment, as I have already indicated. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 16 I have already indicated in writing that it is legally enforceable. If your Chamber so wishes, it is possible to opt for a principled approach. I can live with that. In that sense, therefore, I shall leave the judgement to the Chamber. The same applies to Amendment No 2. 19 of Mr Bruins and Mr Rog, if you take a pragmatic approach. I drew the line somewhere else, but I also attach great importance to broad support in the Chamber. We are talking about different parts and different pillars. If this is a very appropriate point for the Chamber and she considers this to be very important in the weighing of the whole law, then I understand that I also need to add water to the wine somewhere. Then it is up to the Chamber whether it chooses the original pragmatic approach of me, the principled approach of Mr Beertema or an amendment to an even more pragmatic approach to my pragmatic approach through the amendment tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Rog. I think that this has made it clear to the sector which direction we want to go and what basic principles we are pursuing. You can think differently about the weighting which I leave to the Chamber where we are now, which institutions are now or are not covered and where we are laying the line. I can see how the Chamber feels about that. Mr Bishop asked about the sanction in the naming. This also applies to the fact that criminal law is not effective. The inspection has the necessary specialist knowledge to act and the Public Prosecutor does not have it. I'm being corrected. I seem to have just said something that is not right with the Bishop amendment. I was talking about the administrative list, but it is about removing the payment criterion. As long as you don't offer degrees, you can call yourself college or college. To that end, the deception does not stop. That is why I prefer the amendment on item No. 19. Mr Van Meenen asked which universities may still grant degrees in the Netherlands and whether that is only the Shanghai index. For the universities which do not belong to the Bologna countries, we need to see whether we can regulate this by ministerial regulation. I said last time that I consider it useful to take certain rankings as a starting point. I have named the Shanghai ranking and the Times Higher Education World Reputation Rankings, which contain almost all Dutch universities. So it's not that weird to take it as a starting point. What is further included and how we should assess it will then have to be worked out in such a ministerial arrangement. It is still possible to exchange views with the Chamber on this matter. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u118	In the direction of Mr Duisenberg, the Minister has promised to come up with a written response to one of them. I would like to add a request. We have the old amendment to item No. 1 because of an internal misunderstanding. 11 a different editorial system. The new amendment has not yet been tabled. I would also ask the Minister, in his written response to the Chamber, to appreciate the new version of the current amendment to item No. Take 11 with you. The amendment seeks to replace the phrase "discriminatory behaviours and statements" by "behaviours and statements contrary to the democratic rule of law." I would appreciate it if the Minister would take that into account in the written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u119	I will return to it in writing. We have also had a wide-ranging exchange of views during the first period on why it is difficult to express the rule of law in legislation. I fully understand why this is being used as a standard and why it was in the original motion. I will take it with me in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-11.u120	That is the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Minister for coming and her contribution to the debate, as well as the Members present. The motions and amendments will be put to the vote next Tuesday, as will the legislative proposal. I ask the Minister to send the letter to the Chamber before noon on Monday so that the groups can prepare themselves in order for the votes to be taken. I note that the Minister is prepared to do so.
