ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u1	This is an initiative by the House. I would like to welcome Mrs Tellegen in section K. She was supported in the defence of the initiative proposal by Ms Otten and Mr Boon, both of whom were members of the VVD Group. I also welcome, of course, the Minister for Housing and National Service. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill, as is customary in the case of own-initiative proposals. The Court's first term took place on 7 September 2016. Today we are discussing the first-term answer and the second-term answer on the part of the Chamber. I would point out that our agenda is under great pressure. You'll have to do whatever you want with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Your home must be a place where you feel safe, where you can relax, where you can live nicely and where you will not be harassed. It's got to be a place where you don't have to be afraid of continuous nuisance from your neighbors. Unfortunately, this is not the case for many people. Housing nuisance is high on the lists of annoyances. No less than one in three Dutch people suffer from the neighbors. Half a million Dutch people even experience so much nuisance that their daily lives are seriously affected by it. I refer, for example, to the couple Griffioen from Leersum, who has been harassed for years by his neighbor. De Volkskrant wrote another poignant article about it in October of this year. The neighbor even got the nickname "The Leersum Monster." Well, you must have done it. So your life can be pretty messed up by housing nuisance. To use the words of Mr Ronnes, it is a serious social problem. That is why I am pleased that my concerns about housing problems are widely shared in this Chamber. I would like to thank my colleagues for their kind words, questions and comments. I am happy to answer the questions that have been asked to me. First of all, I will give a concrete example of how the legislative proposal will work in practice. I shall then turn to the amendments that have been tabled. Finally, I will answer the remaining questions, as far as that has not yet happened. Many colleagues have asked how this law will work in practice. I would like to explain this on the basis of a concrete example, which was shown last year in the television programme ZEMBLA. An older couple in the Brabant Uden suffers from neighbors. The neighbors have dogs that bark all the time, often all night. The neighbours behave aggressively and intimidatingly and are unwilling to consult. The older couple can barely sleep at night. During the day, these people are tense and scared. They're trying to do all kinds of things: engage the conversation, call the police and call the city. The police will come by, but they won't find a reason for criminal action. The municipality proposes neighbourhood mediation or mediation, but they also offer no relief. They're merchant houses, so there's no housing corporation that can help. The mayor has the authority to close the house, but the inconvenience is not serious enough for that. Eventually, the mayor says there's nothing he can do if the troublesome neighbors don't cooperate. The older couple should learn to live with the situation. This is exactly the kind of situation I find unacceptable. It is precisely for these situations that, unfortunately, there are many in our country, and I would like to use my legislative proposal to provide a solution. With my law, this older couple, the victims, can be helped. Here's how it's gonna work. The victim will call the police or contact the city. First, all other possible ways will be tried to prevent the nuisance. Think of a warning, a good conversation, neighborhood mediation or mediation. Only if all this really doesn't work will or can the mayor use the power of this law. With the law in hand, he can give the troublemakers a behavior guide and keep their areas in their dogs or in the evening no more cause noise nuisance. And yes, the troublemakers must cooperate. The measure is an official act within the meaning of the General Administrative Law Act. If the offenceant does not cooperate, the penalty payment may be forfeited and the offenceant must pay. If that doesn't work either, the mayor can intervene, for example by having those dogs removed via the police or by making sure that the nuisance stops in another way. Any costs can be recovered from the nuisance. Of course, it's possible for the troublemaker to go to court if he doesn't agree. The nuisance must be serious enough. Only passing a grunting dog, as Mr Bishop asked, or not maintaining the garden, as Mr Ronnes asked, is not enough to intervene. We're dealing with a serious housing problem. Often the complaints come from several residents, but the previous example shows that a complaint from one neighbouring house, as in the case of the older couple, can be sufficient to intervene. Also condition is that the nuisance must take place in or from a home. Some colleagues asked whether the bill could be used to deal with nuisances from business premises or cafes. The answer to that is no. I understand the wish, because this nuisance can be equally annoying, but this is already the subject of a different legal regime. Cafés and shops are therefore outside the scope of this law. The bill is aimed at the troublemaker, from one resident to another. I say to Mr Bashir that the bill applies to both rental and purchase houses. Rentals are therefore the tenant of the property. Of course, apart from this law, it is possible to use the housing corporation to prevent the nuisance. The housing corporation can exert pressure on the nuisance through the rental contract. Of course, this is not possible in the case of properties for sale, because then there is no landlord. Should the route break through the housing corporation, the measure is just as possible in the case of rentals as in the case of properties for sale. If the situation is really serious, it is possible to place the nuisance temporarily out of his house, to cool off. That period shall apply for 10 days and may be extended to four weeks. Of course, this can't just happen. This is really a very last chance. In the aforementioned broadcast of ZEMBLA the example of a man in Middelburg who has been terrorizing his neighborhood is mentioned. He's aggressive, threatening neighborhood residents, calling them names. He does so from his own home or garden, but also on the sidewalk just in front of his home. The whole area's scared of him. The mayor wants to put him out of his house temporarily, but the judge's gonna stop it. With my bill, the mayor's gonna get his way soon. I would like to add that, from the point of view of practice, it has been explicitly asked for the possibility of temporarily removing an nuisance publisher from his home. I didn't think of it myself. Mayors asked for this. They will deal with it carefully. So there are many safeguards and conditions before the mayor can actually take action. This will prevent the use of the power for all kinds of wipes and disputes. It also resolves the alleged problem of the principle of enforcement, as mentioned by some colleagues. Moreover, local customisation is possible, as Mr Ronnes and Mr Recourt have rightly pointed out. The city council can decide whether the mayor can use or use this law. In one municipality it is more necessary than in the other. Mr Bishop pointed out the danger of arbitrariness, the situation that a citizen in one municipality could be worse off than in another, or that there were differences between neighbourhoods, where the municipality chose to use the power in one neighbourhood but not in other neighborhoods. I don't see that danger. If you don't cause any trouble, you have nothing to fear. If you do cause any trouble, I don't mind you being dealt with. It is up to the municipality to make that assessment. It's as simple as that. It's moving fast, Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u3	That's no objection at all. You have given clear examples, which are also clear to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u4	Two amendments have been tabled. First of all, many thanks to my fellow Members for this. On the amendment tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Swinkels to item No. 18 I can be short. The members of the CDA and D66 propose to insert the word "repeated." The nuisance must be not only serious but also repeated. I agree with this. It underlines the purpose of the law, namely to combat serious nuisances. Serious nuisance does not usually occur after one time, but is repeated in character. That is why I am giving this amendment judgment, Chamber. I should now like to turn to the amendment on item No. 15 of Mr Van der Linde, who has now also been signed by Mr Bashir. That amendment is about Airbnb. Especially Amsterdam has a lot to do with housing problems because of Airbnb. Complaints from other municipalities are also growing. In this form of rental, a property is rented very regularly for a short period to tourists, who cause a lot of nuisance from the house. They come home drunk, make a lot of noise and don't take the neighbors into account. Many Amsterdammers have had enough. However, it is difficult to deal with this, because the tourists are only there for a weekend and so have flown again before you can do anything. That is why this is a useful amendment. The proposal can deal with the landlord, the one who rents his home in the Jordaan every weekend to another group of British or Polish tourists. The landlord has to make sure the tourists behave. Because it must be a rental to persons who are not registered as residents in the Basic Registration Persons, ordinary landlords are excluded from the scope of this amendment. It is therefore specifically aimed at short tourist rentals: Airbnb thus. In short, this is once again a good addition to the bill. This amendment, too, is left to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u5	I have a clarifying question. I assumed Airbnb was also covered by the initiative bill, because it is used and you also get money for it. That is why I wonder what the amendment adds. I also wonder if this doesn't complicate things. You distinguish between Airbnb tenants from outside the Netherlands, who are not resident and are not registered in the Basic Registration Persons, and those who live in the Netherlands and are registered in the Basic Registration Persons. They will not be included. Doesn't that make it more complicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u6	The purpose of this law is to address housing nuisances. So you want as many as possible to be covered by this law. Why wasn't this in the first place? Because the system of the law is designed to deal with the nuisance. That's just the tricky thing with the Airbnb-systematiek, where there is short rental, often for a weekend, of a house and where possible troublemakers are gone before you can deal with them. That's why this wasn't there at first. During the period in which this bill was drafted, the problem was getting bigger, especially in Amsterdam but also in other cities in the Netherlands. Amsterdam itself has done a great deal about it over the last few months. Then the thought came to my mind: gosh, what do we do with that sector? However, the idea was that the focus was on the troublemaker and that the landlord could not be held liable for this, because he did not come home drunk and did not cause the nuisance himself. That's why I was reluctant. Now there is the amendment. I think it's a welcome addition to the law because it sees a group of people who cause a lot of nuisance. Yeah, I'll make an exception here. I am indeed addressing the person who rents his house through Airbnb to people who come to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u7	We are now with the amendment to item No. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u8	2. Or at least 15. Is that right? There were two amendments, both of which I have now dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u9	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u10	A few questions have not been answered. Mr Bishop asked me to accept his view that the liberal principle of damage should be taken on board. You understand that I do not agree with his statement. The proposal for an initiative is in line with the liberal principle of damage, because the nuisance is being dealt with and not the victim. The offenceant's freedom ends where he harms the victim's freedom. The liberal damage principle on which this bill is based is entirely in line with the VVD's vision. I am sure that many SGPs also agree with that view. Mr Bishop also spoke about the similarities and differences between powers such as the placing of cameras and the designation of safety-risk areas on the one hand and the powers of the legislative proposal on the other. All these powers do indeed have a stepped division of powers through the city council to the mayor. All powers are about possible violations of civil rights. For example, it is easy to search passers-by in a security risk area. In a strict sense, this is a violation of civil rights, as is the use of jurisdiction under my law. It contains the agreement between all the measures mentioned. That's why I made that comparison. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked me if it is possible to use police data to enforce an imposed burden. In practice, there is a lot of consultation and exchange of information between police and municipalities. If a report comes in to the police, it's obvious that it will be passed on to the municipality. If the municipality or the mayor subsequently wants to deal with the nuisance, the police data may be used to impose and then maintain the burden. Should it be necessary to provide a clearer basis for the exchange of data, this should be done, for example by adapting the Police Data Decision, as provided for by the Rotterdam Act. But I am not dealing with the possible modification of that decision. That is up to the Minister; I would like to hear his views on that. Ms Koşer Kaya then asked whether it would be an idea to create, together with VNG, a point of contact for municipalities to coordinate with. I do not think there is any need for a separate window. The VNG, which, by the way, supports the law, will undoubtedly be happy to take on the role of coordination and advice. This brings me straight to Mr Recourt's question. It suggests that the VNG can draw up a model regulation for municipalities for the use of this law. This seems to me to be an excellent plan. Mr Recourt proposed that the Minister consult with the UNG on this matter. I will not, of course, deal with the Minister's agenda, but I will not oppose it. Mr Recourt then asked about people with psychological problems. How does that work in relation to this law? Of course, it is not possible to impose a behavioral instruction on someone who causes nuisance, but does not understand the whole clue or is not responsible. I also refer to the government brochure Helping and intervention in the event of housing nuisance by psychologically vulnerable people. The Minister may be able to go into this further, as the question has also been asked to him. Mr Van der Linde asks whether the bill can also be used against squatters. That is certainly the case. After all, a squatter is also a user of the home, as referred to in the legal text. So the answer is yes. Mr Bashir is concerned about the capacity of the police. Mrs Koşer Kaya also asked for this. The specific FTE strength of the police, as Mr Bashir calls it, falls outside the scope of this legislative proposal. In any case, this law does not impose a greater seizure on the police. Perhaps the opposite, because there will be an end to the nuisance; at least I hope so. With less nuisance, less police is needed to maintain. Mayors receive the bill with open arms. They shall be responsible for their implementation. I therefore assume that they will deal with it properly and be careful with police deployment. I think I've answered all the questions. I should like to thank my predecessor and current Secretary of State, Klaas Dijkhoff. He was the one who started this initiative proposal. It's an honor for me to finish it on his behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u11	You're not done. Mr Ronnes has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u12	I have a clarifying question. We have asked whether it is necessary that more than one person lodges the complaint in order to deal with a complaint? The initiator indicated that, in certain situations, multiple persons will very often complain. Is it necessary that they are multiple persons?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u13	No, it could also be one person experiencing serious inconvenience. That's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mrs Tellegen is doing an excellent job in Box K. My compliments. I have two questions. Firstly, I would like to remind you of my question about the initial stage. There's trouble and you're up early. Then it's easier to smother the germ than it is when it takes too long. This requires neighbourhood policy. Is there enough work from the cabinet? My second question is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u15	Let's do them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u16	This is a relevant question from Mr Bashir. This law has been made in cases where all the stages before it have not provided a solution. I would like to see a solution to the problem of housing in consultation between neighbours or with the intervention of a mediator. The instrument I introduce is only discussed when all the stages in which it has to be resolved are not sufficient. I agree with Mr Bashir that we must do everything we can to prevent the instrument from being used. It is a solid instrument. Are we doing enough about that? I understand that's what we're doing. A lot of mediation is being done. The nuisance is more common among tenants than in residential housing and the corporations play an important intermediary role in this. I have the impression that we are doing enough about it, but unfortunately it turns out that housing nuisance is a form of annoyance that cannot always be solved. This bill is an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u17	Some kind of ultimum remedium. Mr Bashir, you had a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u18	That is an important signal to the Minister, because unfortunately there has been a great deal of savings in neighbourhood policy. Apart from Rotterdam-Zuid, there is hardly anywhere else neighbourhood policy paid by the Reich. We will certainly continue this discussion with the Minister. Mrs Tellegen's signal is clear: she thinks it is important! I have another question about the position of homeowners. Do I understand correctly that this bill also allows homeowners to eventually be evicted from their homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yes. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u20	That's nicely clear! This brings us to the end of the answer given by the initiator. I see there are no more questions for her. Now is the time to give the Minister for Housing and National Service the floor in his capacity as advisor to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. As an advisor, I would first of all like to express my appreciation for the commitment of Mrs Tellegen and her supporters. Of course, I also appreciate Mr Dijkhoff, but he has already received so many compliments that he will not even notice them. The submission of a bill is one of the most beautiful and important rights the Chamber has. At the same time, it is a huge amount of work to implement that right. Apart from the content, which I will go into in a moment, I have a great deal of appreciation for that. I can also express my appreciation of the content. Trouble in your own home, your rented house, your street or your neighborhood ruins your life in an incredible way. During the visits I make, this is one of the topics that I hear most about from tenants, caretakers and aid workers. It can make people's lives really impossible! In recent years, the cabinet has submitted a number of proposals to the Chamber to address this problem. We have also received support for this. I refer to the tightening up of the Rotterdam Act in order to be able to screen for criminal backgrounds as well as tightening up the Housing Act in order to be able to deal with house milkers. Mrs Tellegen's bill is a useful addition to that in the cabinet. Unfortunately, these instruments are needed. Several MPs specifically asked the cabinet a number of questions. Mr Ronnes asked how excessive efforts by the mayor could be avoided. This is a concern also expressed by the Dutch Society of Mayors. Mr Recourt joined in and asked whether this power of the mayor could lead to other parties relocating. In my opinion, the law contains safeguards to mitigate both risks. The law states that it must be a serious nuisance and Mr Ronnes' amendment even tightens it up. The law also states that this serious nuisance should not be reasonably avoided in any other way. These requirements do show that there can be no back-up. In addition, the city council can regulate in a regulation when and how the mayor can use the instrument. The city council will therefore also ensure that it does not happen lightly. If the law is ratified by both Chambers, I am happy to see, in consultation with the VNG and other stakeholders, how municipalities, municipal councils and mayors can be helped by a model regulation to ensure that this is properly implemented. We will also use the experience we already have through the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security. Mrs. Koşer Kaya asked for that. At that center a lot of information about housing nuisance is collected and then distributed again. There is good cooperation when there is a burden of housing by tenants. The landlords can make arrangements about that. In practice, I have seen good examples of this. The Centre for Crime Prevention and Security is an excellent body that we will use after the adoption of this law to ensure proper implementation and sharing of experience. Following the opinion of the Council of State or the administrative burden, Mr Ronnes asked whether enforcement capacity would be overstated. Here are the same safeguards that I have just mentioned. The city council can frame. There is no obligation to use the possibilities of the law. It is always a local consideration whether and to what extent these additional measures are used. The municipality may decide to use its own officials for this purpose, but it may also criminalise it through the general local regulation and use investigative officers to do so. You could even reverse Mr Ronnes' concern by saying that the new instruments provided by the law require less enforcement capacity. Mrs Tellegen mentioned an example that we will encounter in many places. Residents call at end guess the police. The police will come, but they don't have a direct point of contact. Now the police can be spared and with the new possibilities of intervention the municipality can act. Mr Ronnes asked how this proposal relates to the legislative proposal on mediation that Mr Van der Steur is working on. That bill has a much broader scope than just housing nuisances. In general terms, it wants to reduce recourse to the courts as much as possible, while this legislative proposal allows for a very targeted approach to housing problems. The bill on mediation has just been consulted. Mr Van der Steur will certainly inform the Chamber of its progress. Mr Ronnes also asked whether there were sufficient opportunities to deal with the nuisance of business premises. I agree with Mrs Tellegen that there are many more points of concern for the nuisance of business premises. Logically, the position of residents, owners or tenants of residential homes is much more protected, even under human rights conventions, than that of business premises. Then there is protection, but still of a different type. Within the framework of the Activity Decision and operating permits, for example in the hospitality sector, there are many opportunities for municipalities or for another competent authority to act. Mrs. Koşer Kaya asked if police records could be used. If the law is passed, I would like to see, in consultation with the colleague of Security and Justice, whether the decision on police data in this area can be amended. These rules lay down the proper implementation of this law. Mr Recourt, now replaced by Mr Marcouch, asked whether the temporary ban, which is now part of the bill, could prevent a definitive ban on housekeeping and thus be a more proportionate means. Mr Recourt also referred to the fundamental rights which I have just mentioned and which are important when it comes to housing. With his reasoning, he hits the nail on the head. Unfortunately, a restraining order may be needed. The possibility of applying this very radical measure on a temporary basis allows people to seek help. It is precisely through this addition that the instrument becomes more proportional and therefore much more specific to the problem. Mr Recourt asked about the situation in which the causer of nuisance does so partly because of psychological problems that that person is experiencing, in which even a behavioral indication may not be properly understood. Under the rental right, there is already the necessary experience with behavioral instructions. I indicated that we have conducted a number of experiments in collaboration with the CCV. Fortunately, it has turned out that it is very often possible to make agreements with people with mental problems, for example about counselling, and to link them to renting accommodation. In many cases, people with mental problems are also doing well. In cases where this is not the case, Mr Schippers, together with State Secretary Van Rijn and State Secretary Dijkhoff, is preparing a legislative proposal on compulsory mental health care. That bill is under consideration in the Chamber. I come to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u22	The idea behind the question of what to do when the nuisance bomber has psychological problems is, above all, that it cannot be the intention that we will only enforce laws in the future and that we will fail to use help that is necessary for people with a psychological problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr Marcouch's question is very relevant. I fully agree with him that the link should be made with help for people with mental problems. I indicated that this can be done very often in practice. Mr Marcouch will undoubtedly recognize that there is also a group that is difficult to convince of its importance, not only for its own mental health, but also for the rest of the environment. That is the reason for Mr Schippers to consider whether to provide a legal basis for this group for a more binding instrument. For obligations, you need that legal basis. As far as Mr Ronnes and Mrs Swinkels' amendment is concerned, I agree with the author that this is a useful addition to the legislative proposal. The amendment tabled by Mr Van der Linde and Mr Bashir on the nuisance caused by Airbnb rental is very timely. Especially in Amsterdam, the nuisance in a number of places is very disturbing. I went there a few weeks ago myself with the inspectors early in the morning. I am also talking to the city council of Amsterdam to see if additional legal measures are needed and enforceable. I can at least say that this amendment is feasible. Moreover, it has a major advantage that it can be implemented quickly, should the law be adopted. Any other legislative proposals will have to go through the normal course next year, while a outgoing cabinet will be on the agenda for a long time. This amendment will, in my opinion, really help to deal with nuisance. I hope I have answered the questions of the Chamber to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you very much. I can still see movement at the microphones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u25	I still have a question for the Minister, who is also responsible for dealing with nuisances. This week, Mayor Bruls was in the news. He really wants to be able to shut down homes that are used by their homeowners to grow weed. He said there's case law that makes that possible. That would, of course, be new, because this has so far been somewhat complicated. Can the Minister say anything about that? If it is not possible now, it may be possible at a later date, but I would very much like to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u26	I have not seen or heard Mr Bruls' statements. I therefore think it would be wise for us to contact him for a moment. There is legislation on the closure of buildings, such as the Victor Act and the Victoria Act. Mr Marcouch knows him, too. But from his contribution, I understand that these laws do not provide sufficient basis for the situation in Nijmegen. I therefore think it would be wise if I now promised that we would contact Mr Bruls. On this basis, either I or Mr Van der Steur will let us know what our response will be to his concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u27	I thank the Minister for his commitment. It would of course be new if, on the basis of case law, it could be done much faster than is currently the case with the Victoria Act, especially with regard to home owners. So far, we were able to deal with the tenants a little easier than the owners of homes. The latter was a little more complicated. I'm waiting for the Minister's little investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u28	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u29	For my good understanding, what is the relationship with this initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u30	The relationship is that housing nuisance presents itself in many forms. This is about farms and owners of homes. The latter are generally a little more difficult to deal with than tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u31	I ask this because I want to know if you need a response, as just promised, for the votes, because that is getting a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u32	No, you don't, Mr. Chairman. We all want to deal with nuisance, so I'm just curious about that. I could have asked written questions about this, but the Minister is here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u33	This is the short blow. Obviously. But that does not have to be done before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u34	I've asked you to look ahead. What if a family that caused trouble was thrown out of the house and the mayor called the minister and said, "I had a family with children removed, what am I supposed to do with that family?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u35	The danger of an example is that you first have to make an assessment of the reality of that example. I think the strength of this bill is that it is likely to be less necessary to evict an entire family, which, fortunately, does not happen so often now because this law allows you to act in a very targeted way. If in a family a adolescent son or a father with problems causes noise in the middle of the night, under this law you can deal with the one person, so that the rest of the family does not have to leave. To be honest, I think that the situation of an entire family has to be removed, and I agree with Mr Bashir that you must avoid it to the utmost, precisely because of this law, it will become even more an exception than it already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u36	That wasn't my question. We also attach great importance to ensuring that every effort is made to prevent people from being evicted. However, I do not just ask this question. There may be a situation where an entire family or someone with children is evicted. Then that phone call comes and there must have been some thought about what to do with such a family. Where are we gonna put the kids? What do we do with these people? We can't just leave them out on the street, because then the problems get bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u37	Sure. But in the case of this hypothetical phone call, my question would be to the mayor: have you already checked if there is any family where these people can get shelter, if they are able to find their own living space, has there been any consultation with the Salvation Army, are the children in the picture at Youth Services? There are so many questions to ask in this general example, which I think will be even less so than at present, that I cannot give a suitable answer, other than that we fortunately have all kinds of facilities in the Netherlands, up to and including homeless care. But especially if there are children in the picture, if there are indeed no family or friends available, it will of course be much earlier on about Child Welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u38	I have the impression that your advisory role is done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u39	If the chairman concludes that, so do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u40	At least for this period. Thank you very much. There is a need for a second deadline. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond briefly in this second term. First of all, thank you for the clear and clear answer, both by Mrs Tellegen and by the Minister. We are very satisfied with the answers given. They clarify exactly what the initiator means by a number of parts of the proposal that she has submitted. We also thank you for the support for the amendment. We are pleased that this will help to clarify the functioning of the law. Moreover, the amendment has just been amended. There has been another co-signator, Mrs Koşer Kaya, instead of Mrs Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u42	It concerns the Ronnes/Koşer Kaya amendment to item No. 16. The Van der Linde/Bashir amendment has Amendment No. 17. Both amendments have not been amended in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u43	I would like to mention that the demand for capacity in municipalities remains above the market. I understand when the Minister says that if this law really does its job, it could result in a more efficient use of, for example, the police, but also of municipal officials. I think we should keep a close eye on this. I hope that the Minister will look back on this, together with the VNG, when the law has been doing its job for some time. I believe that the amendment on Airbnb is a good addition. The CDA is in favour of this. I think that with this law we are taking another big step to make our neighbourhoods in the Netherlands more liveable, where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u44	I give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP Group. He's coming without papers. That's usually a good sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mr. Chairman. To reassure you, at least that means I'm not going to table a motion. You'll be pleased. I would like to thank the initiator and the Minister very much for their response to the questions that have been asked. I remain concerned about one point: the degree of involvement of the municipalities and the obligation of proof attached to it. I can't quite see that yet. We are going to consider this internally. In general, we wholeheartedly support this bill. This is an instrument that can help to improve the quality of life of a neighborhood. But I am concerned about the practical effect. Maybe the initiator can zoom in on that in the second term. What does this even mean for the municipality? What about the evidence? I would appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u46	I wish you every success in the internal deliberations. That must be completed by tonight, because then we will vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr. Chairman. Barking dogs. Asos with their stereos on ten. Idiots terrorizing their neighborhood until 4:00 in the morning. With this bill in hand, mayors can deal with that specific nuisance. I have already expressed my appreciation in the first term. So I don't have to repeat that. I would like to thank the author and her advisor for their first-term replies. I have asked a number of specific questions. They've been answered. We don't have to be afraid of an unintended look at restaurants, for example. We can use this law to tackle squatters and other residential fraudsters. And people who are affected can be helped both through the police and through the municipality. This makes us one step closer to a clean, whole and safe Netherlands. In my first term I also paid attention to the nuisance of internet rental. This concerns not only Airbnb........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Municipalities need more tools for that. A maximum of 60 nights rental, as Amsterdam has set up, sounds understandable, but if your neighbors rent an apartment to blowing and drinking backpack tourists throughout July and August, then your summer will of course go to the gallemies. My own associate is competent in this matter, that's how I understood. So it's not enough to just tackle the troublemakers, because tomorrow the blowing Spaniard is gone and there's a drunk Irishman. You should also be able to address the landlord. I have therefore tabled an amendment together with Mr Bashir to deal with this problem. I am glad that this has been a positive response. Today, the city council of Amsterdam meets precisely on this subject. As a Chamber, let us give this amendment to our colleagues in the city council. After all the experiences with power districts, beautiful neighbourhoods and birdaarwijken we know what works. The fact is that clean, whole and safe are the best guarantees for a nice neighborhood. That's what the VVD's working hard on. This law contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr. Chairman. This initiative legislative proposal is very helpful in addressing housing problems in a more targeted way. That's very nice. As far as I'm concerned, the Irish and all other holidaymakers are welcome, but we're going to be more focused to ensure that no inconvenience is caused. To all those tourists who come to us, I will say that they are good and that they are not just annoying people. I would like to thank Mrs Tellegen very much for the clear and enlightening answers, with the casuistic she used. I would also like to thank the Minister for his answers. I would like to ask one more question about capacity demand. Mr Ronnes has already mentioned this. I'm genuinely worried about that. I would like the Minister to keep his finger on the pulse, because it is important that we can act on time if it turns out that the demand for capacity does lead to problems. Finally, I wish Mrs Van Tellegen every success in the First Chamber in defending her own initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u49	Thank you very much. I would also point out that it is Mrs Tellegen, so without 'van'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr. Chairman. Compliments for the answer. I also like the tone. People often don't feel protected by the law. On the contrary, we want people who cause nuisance and create to be dealt with, and people who suffer nuisances to be protected. It is therefore a good thing that this bill is before us. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal, but before I do, I do have a number of questions. I would like to have an answer to that, because of course we want the legislative proposal that will be adopted immediately to be used. Then you should also look at cases where mayors are gonna have questions. For example, what happens to someone who gets kicked out of the house? You want to be clear about that, especially when there are children at stake. How is this person then supervised? I also asked how support and guidance will be provided for the victims. Soon a behavioral instruction will be given, but that can take at least eight weeks. In those almost two months, of course, much can happen. Then you want to prevent the victims, who are already victims, from being dealt with even harder by the unsub. Of course, the victims still know how to find them. Of course, nuisance doesn't just have to happen in the house, that can also take place elsewhere on the street, in the neighborhood or in a supermarket, you name it. What happens then? I would like to have another comment on that. I would also like to put a question to the Minister. We have the assistance to municipalities in order to avoid nuisance and there are still changes to be made. I would like to stress that a removal should be a last resort, which should not be handled too lightly. I have asked the Minister to make it clear that this will only happen after all the other means have been used. Finally, I am pleased that Mrs Van Tellegen has explained, excuse me, that Mrs Tellegen has explained that this bill also applies to treacherous owners and not only to tenants who cause problems. Let us be clear: if you cause problems and cause nuisance, then you can be dealt with hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr. Chairman. Can I also express my appreciation and respect for the initiators and the supporters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u53	I wish them good luck with the rest. It is no surprise that we support this law, because too many people face this kind of crime every day. I always call it one of the most vicious and vicious forms of crime, because it's done by your neighbors in your own porch or your own street. It very often leads to situations where there is in fact deprivation of liberty. It can do a lot to you psychologically and financially. Colleagues have talked about beautiful neighbourhoods. I visited it in 2011 and some of the problems have been solved. However, there are still victims of one family who suffer from this to this day. This bill, including the possibility to impose a house ban, I am pleased that the initiators have included it; that was one of our proposals................................................................................................................................................................................................ The only question that I have to ask the Minister-in-Office is: how are we going to ensure that the quality of implementation, knowledge and expertise and the strength of action is such that people are heard on time and that good administration is maintained? Only then can you actually perform.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u54	In that case, we shall have to wait for the second time on the part of the initiator, who can reply immediately, as I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked, including by the CDA and D66 on police capacity. In fact, I repeat it to the Minister: the burden of living is already there in the current situation. He's doing a lot of work for the police. There is therefore a certain capacity involved at the moment. This bill can only lead to a reduction in this eventually. However, I understand the concern that, in the run-up to the use of the instrument by the mayor, the police may have to do a little bit more before the problem is resolved. Let us be clear that the mayor will not only be about the instrument I create here, but also about the use of his own police in his own municipality. So I'm assuming that the mayors handle this prudently and make up for that weighting. However, this bill also provides for an evaluation in five years' time. Maybe that's too far away for the members of the CDA and D66 to monitor whether this will lead to more police deployment. Again, I don't think so, but I'm assuming we keep the finger on the wrist. If the UNG shows that things are different, we will undoubtedly be hearing it here sooner than in five years' time. Mr Bishop has also asked a question. I'm sorry, but I'm not quite sure what it was about. He was talking about the duty of proof. What exactly does it mean for the municipalities? I think he means: how do you get a case round, how does the file get to the mayor's office, and when can the mayor actually intervene with this new instrument? If I have understood it so well, I can say that there is a whole process ahead of it before we get to this instrument. I prefer to see that any kind of housing nuisance in the Netherlands is resolved between neighbours, possibly with a mediator or a mediator. But sometimes this is not the case and with all the authorities involved, the municipalities and sometimes also the police a dossier is being built up. That file ends at the mayor's office. On the basis of that file, the mayor will then determine whether or not he gives a behavioral instruction. But again, I'm not 100% sure...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u56	We're gonna check whether the concept has been good over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u57	This was indeed the description I meant. There is talk of a power, which is in fact a duty of enforcement. That's what the Council of State pointed out. That means there's a moment when a mayor has to act. The question I meant to ask was indeed: when will that moment be there? Mrs Tellegen is now setting out the path forward, and that is enlightening. In my first term, I also argued in favour of making a connection with the viability of the living environment. Perhaps Mrs Tellegen can say something about that, and then she has outlined a complete and clear picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u58	The mayor will proceed to enforcement as soon as there is a decision that he can maintain. At the time he has read the file and whether or not he decides in consultation with the municipality to come up with a behavioral instruction, he will also maintain it. I listened very carefully to Mr Bishop in his first term and I heard that Mr Bishop was concerned about whether the mayor would use this instrument properly. That is absolutely not the case, because there is, as we call it here so beautifully, an escalation ladder in it. First, all other means must be exhausted before we reach this point. And, of course, the mayor maintains in the preliminary course in a different way. The police will have been at the door at several times to see what's going on. That is what I call maintaining, but that does not always lead to a decision. The mayor's gonna make a decision when this law comes into force. He will then maintain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u59	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mr Bashir of the SP had two more questions. One question was about kicking it out of the house. I don't have much more to add to that. Again, I do not think that it will often, even almost never, prevent an entire family from being evicted. It's really the stick behind the door. I hope it doesn't happen often, but I do think it's important that this stays behind the law as a stick. This was included in the letter of amendment in response to a request from the PvdA. People will only know how serious things can end with them if they do not commit. Everything is possible in principle, so it could also apply to an entire family, but it will not happen often. It will often be one person from a family. I can also be a bit harsh about the way in which this person needs to be accompanied: it is a nuisance that we want to deal with. That he might need to be escorted to a place where he needs to spend the night, so be it. The man, the woman or the child in question must repent. I hope that this will lead to the person adjusting his behavior and stopping his antisocial behavior. More importantly, the troublemaker isn't the victim. Mr Bashir also asked how we are to guide the victim. That's a tricky question. To put it mildly, I did not create a situation for that in my law. We're trying to use this law to help the victims. That may indeed take several weeks. I hope it will be known to the police and the aid agencies that this is happening. I hope that the victim will be protected where necessary during the period in which this story is going and when the mayor is working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u61	The unsub doesn't need to be protected from us either. It should guide you to a place where he can come to his senses quietly. It's my concern that there's a possibility in the law. If there is a possibility in the law, it can be used, unless it's not worked out properly and the mayor and the person who has to perform it don't know what to do with the perpetrator. Then, of course, you will not make use of the possibility that this bill creates. We need to think this through. This does not have to be done immediately in the legislative proposal, as this can also be done in the circular for the municipalities. But there are some things that need to be included in this. If you don't, it's gonna be an empty promise that no mayor's gonna use. Then everyone knows he can cause trouble, because you're not getting kicked out of the house because they don't know what to do with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u62	I think that's two different things. This law aims to deal with the nuisance and place him as an ultimatum remedium for ten days up to a maximum of four weeks. I think it is up to every municipality to determine how they deal with it at that time, because every case and every situation is different. That brings me to the end of my second term. I would like to thank all Members for their compliments and their support. Of course, I very much hope that this will lead to broad support for this initiative proposal this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u63	I now give the floor to the Minister in his role as advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes and Mrs Koşer Kaya asked for proper monitoring of the capacity attachment. I indicated that, if the law is passed, I will consider, in consultation with the VNG, how we can support the implementation of the law. I would like to suggest to the VNG that after two years, for example, they write down their own experiences with the law in practice. Then we can share it with the Chamber. Then we can talk about the capacity seizure, but also about other practical issues that are being discussed. Mr Bishop asked a question which Mrs Tellegen also raised. As I know the Dutch government, a mayor will not use lightly a heavy instrument like this law. He will realise that it is part of good governance in any case to provide the use of instruments for good consideration. He will do the same, because the mayor will be legally vulnerable if he cannot show that he first tried to solve the problem with other instruments. I do have faith in Dutch mayors and municipal councils who will often be involved in this through the route of the regulation. I think they will build those guarantees, but this is, frankly, something that can also be dealt with when the net is first picked up after two years. Mr Van der Linde has rightly said that this problem is not only raised by Airbnb, but also by other landlord sites. When commenting on the capacity attachment, I thought back to my inspection round on the bike. I only did it one morning, but other people do it every morning. I believe that an instrument like this will reduce the number of laps needed to deal with the problem properly. That way you can already free up concrete capacity. Mr Bashir has addressed the situation of the victims, and rightly so. There too, I see an advantage in this law, because the person who will impose the measure is not the victim himself. Now, in general, a victim has to go to court himself; he is then facing his annoying neighbor on the fence. In this case, the mayor is imposing the measure. So that creates some distance between the victim and the angry neighbor. I agree with Mr Bashir that removal should always be a last resort. It is essential that this instrument exists, but nobody will be happy to use it. That is why it must be made clear in the presentation that this is a heavy and last resort. Mr Marcouch has asked how we are going to ensure that action is actually taken in time. I assume that he assumes that the lighter instruments will be used first and finally, where necessary, this law. The discussions we are already having with the UNG and the support we are providing through the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security are precisely aimed at raising awareness of the issue, but also at clarifying the instruments that exist. When we deal with such a law here, we have it all on the retina, but as a municipality you will often not have so much to do with it. The aim is precisely that municipalities and housing corporations have the entire palette of instruments on the retina, including the other laws I mentioned earlier, so that action can be taken in good time. As far as I am concerned, too, if, after a year or two with the UNG, we get the first net, it is a very relevant question whether we are able to deploy the entire palette of instruments in good time and thus effectively prevent the nuisance, because that is ultimately the aim of this law and all other measures. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u65	I'll take a look around and see that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-8.u66	I would like to thank the initiator, the minister and the members. I propose that we vote this evening on the amendments tabled and on the legislative proposal.
