ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators Mrs Voortman and Mr Van Weyenberg. Surely it is special if you, as a Member of Parliament, are allowed to sit in box K with such a proposal, I say from my own experience. The initiators are supported by Mr Van der Steenhoven, GroenLinks group member, Mr Zwaaneveld, D66 group member, and Mr Van der Loop from the Ministry of BZK. I would also like to welcome Mariko Peters. It is the original initiator of the legislative proposal and has taken its place in the chair. That doesn't give me the right to speak, let me add. Finally, I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we're doing the reply and rejoinder. I call Mr Van Raak of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Voortman and Mr Van Weyenberg, both of them, for their answers and for the great work they have done again. A fourth letter of amendment has just been received. I have not yet been able to study it in detail, but the initiators will undoubtedly be able to explain it later. All the information the government has is not from directors, but from citizens. That's the beauty of this law. At the moment, journalists, citizens and researchers sometimes have to make a lot of effort to get information, there are many discussions about whether you can get information and there are many coercive means to ensure that government organisations provide information. These coercive measures are being abused quite massively, sometimes on a large scale for financial gain. The good thing about the Open Government Act is that that case is turned around. Information shall be made public as far as possible. This is done actively by organisations, including in a register. The idea is that, at least in the long term, procedures will disappear because they are no longer necessary. The SP is very happy if the Open Government Act is also introduced for as many semi-public institutions as possible. We were less pleased with one point in the first term, namely the Information Commissioner. That function seemed to be a bit too much of a hobby project. I am extremely pleased with the third letter of amendment tabled by the initiators, because it responds to a number of concerns in the Chamber. A number of things which they attach great importance to have been killed. That's not funny. I also often agree with the authors that this is not nice, but I do think that such an important, large law, such a substantial law should also have substantial support in the Second and First Chambers. I therefore fully understand the concessions made. I had a little more trouble with one concession, namely that we are going to evaluate and that the Commissioner for Information has already been incorporated into the law. That does not seem to me to be so pure and not so necessary, because I think it is better to look at whether such an information Commissioner is needed in the evaluation. Then it is not necessary to put it in the law now, but it is much more logical to consider whether, in the light of the experience gained, such an information commissioner is needed and, if so, how it should take shape. In this sense, I feel a great deal of sympathy for the amendment tabled by Mr Veldman and Mr Bishop. I had a lot of doubts about all these other amendments. I am very curious about the comments made by the authors, whom I would like to thank once again for the many good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. It took a while before the applicants could provide the Court with a first reply, but then two weeks ago it was time. Although I thank the authors for the answer, I regret to note that many of the questions and criticisms raised by the VVD in the first period have not been answered or have not been answered. Many things are not yet transparent or unclear, both the way in which things are designed and the answer to the big why question: what is actually controlled and what is or is not covered by the legislative proposal? That is, of course, remarkable for a law that has the words "open government" in its title. I am talking, among other things, about the scope of the legislative proposal, the business and manufacturing data, the personal policy views, the information register, the information commissioner and the regulatory burden, but also about the costs involved in this initiative proposal. There is and remains a great deal of uncertainty about the risks to business and manufacturing data. Mrs Voortman said, in response to an interruption on my part, "The law offers an opportunity to extend its scope to semi-public organisations, so in any case not to private organisations." Mr Van Weyenburg replied to the same kind of questions, namely how the risks lie for business and manufacturing data: "I did not argue at all that nothing changes. However, I have argued that there will always be a very careful consideration (...)." In addition to the semi-public organisations, companies doing business with the government do indeed run the risk that business sensitive information will be on the streets. For the VVD this is an undesirable situation. Publicity and transparency for public authorities is a good thing, a means of controlling our directors. However, taking private companies with them and passing them along is a bridge too far. Then it turns out that disclosure is no longer a means, but an end in itself. Moreover, as regards the scope for the semi-public organisations, it remains a bit shady. The initiators put a hook in the law, but don't mention the organisations they have in mind. There is no clarity and no openness. Once again, I would like to ask both proposers: where does the scope that they are looking for begin and where does it end? Which organisations will the proposers want to see in an AMvB? It is still quite unclear what the cost of the initiative proposal will be and how it will be dealt with in terms of regulatory burden. As far as I am concerned, the proposers are a little too light-hearted about this. They claim that it will not be so bad, but they do not really know how to support that statement. Ms Voortman stated that the Advisory Committee on Administrative Burdens (Actal) had sent a letter. That's right. That letter lies there and ends with: "We recommend that the regulatory pressure be reflected and taken into account in the examination of the proposal Open Government Act." So Actal is not at all comfortable with it, nor am I. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[Whereas the impact of that legislative proposal on the regulatory burden of public authorities, companies and institutions is not yet clear;]] [[calls on the Government, Actal, to map the impact of this bill on the regulatory burden and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Bishop and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33328-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	I have also tabled a motion asking the government to identify the costs and risks in the field of ICT. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Open Government Act requires public authorities to keep a register of the documents and datasets at their disposal;]] [[Considering that the Own-initiative Act Act brings more institutions into the functioning of the Act;]] [[Whereas the establishment of such an information register is a large-scale ICT operation, the costs of which are currently unclear;]] [[considers that an understanding of the costs of the Open Government Act (including the Information Register) is required before the House votes on the Open Government Act bill;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the costs of the Open Government Act;]] [[invites the Government to consult the ICT Examination Office on the costs of the proposed information register before launching this large-scale ICT project, and to inform the Court of Justice about it as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Bishop and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33328-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'm struggling a little bit with the question of whether it's a big ICT project at all. This relates to an information register that governments/municipalities should already have under other legislation. I would also like to point out that if we wait for an investigation until we vote, there will again be delays in the implementation of the law. That is why I ask Mr Veldman whether such an investigation can be carried out even if we are already voting on the law in the meantime. Is this about a large-scale ICT project, because per municipality you don't even get the amount of 5 million we agreed on in the context of the BIT opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	I hear several questions. I will start with the first question as to whether there is a large-scale ICT project, because governments/municipalities should already have such an information system. The answer is already contained in the question: Mrs Oosenbrug speaks of'should have'. One of the bottlenecks in the current implementation of the Public Administration Act is that municipalities/governments, including the government, do not always have their information systems in order. So there's a bit of late work, isn't there? This applies both to the filling of systems and to the systems currently being used. They may not be so optimal that they can be nicely filled. They may not be designed in such a way that you can easily search them. So this calls for large-scale investment, and if large-scale investment is to be made, I think it would be wise for the BIT to issue an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	If I listen carefully, I hear Mr Veldman say that under the Open Government Act an investigation is being carried out into systems that should have been in order but not yet in order. The costs of that investigation will then be laid down by the Open Government Act. I'm struggling with that. Does that amount belong to the Open Government Act or is this a much bigger problem that is now being laid down there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	This is more of a basic question to the initiative legislative proposal Open Government Act. The problem with the use of the Public Administration Act is mainly a cultural problem. The authors have already mentioned this and I believe that we have shared this with each other on a number of occasions. Others see this, too. This is a cultural problem and a way of working which is not as it should be in many cases. Are you solving these problems with new legislation? In my opinion, this is not the case. The answer to the question whether the costs of such an information register have a direct relationship with this law is yes and no. Yes, because this law provides for an information register to be set up in order to be able to search at document level. Governments don't have that right now. And no, the general desire for public sector information to be available naturally applies to a lot of legislation. If you want to consult all kinds of other laws and want to know what documents go with them, you're gonna have to get things in order. So yes and no. It is clear that the VVD has great reservations about this law. Publicity is a great asset. We have to deal with this carefully. The underlying legislation must therefore be careful. For now, I can't draw that conclusion about the Open Government Act. I have already spoken with Mrs Oosenbrug during an interruption: we agree that the current Public Administration Act can, in particular, improve the culture of works. I can therefore endorse the opinion of the Council of State on the Open Government Act. Indeed, the Council states that it has not been convincingly demonstrated that an overall review of the law is necessary and that the Open Government Act places too much emphasis on the right of access to public sector information, which may affect other interests. I am thinking, among other things, of the interests of private companies which are not administrative bodies. These criticisms by the Council of State have so far not been able to refute applicants in their response. I am very curious whether the proposers will be able to do so convincingly in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	I have a question. Eventually, after two installments, the VVD provides clarity. There were a lot of questions at first and those questions had to be taken seriously. I see that many of these questions have been answered seriously by the initiators and that they have also tried to move along. Now the VVD is actually saying that, and I think that is a little late in the debate, they just like the WOB and don't want to change anything about it. Let's look at all those things that have occurred around the WOB recently: information has not been released when it should have been released, information has not been released in time. If Mr Veldman takes that into account, does he still think that there is nothing in the proposed law that can earn his support? Is the Open Government Act returning to what the WOB once was the single goal? That's how I read his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma is asking the basic question whether this law is necessary or not. If improving the culture of works and the current use of the WOB is the aim, then my conclusion is that this initiative law will not change that culture of works, but will bring with it a number of risks, especially for companies and for a number of semi-public services. You might wonder if that's what you're talking about. Has public access suddenly become an end in itself? I believe that this should be an instrument for controlling our directors, our public bodies, and I believe that the WOB is a good and appropriate instrument for this. However, we see in practice that it is not always properly applied. Like Mr Sjoerdsma, I regret this and want to work on improving it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	In one thing, of course, Mr Veldman is right: the way in which the WOB is carried out has to do with a cultural problem. We also see this cultural problem in this cabinet; let me just say that. In the Ministry of Security and Justice, for example, there is a member of the government, from the same party as Mr Veldman, who unfortunately used the WOB wrongly in several ways. It's not just a cultural problem. Let's go back to public. I asked Mr Veldman what the VVD intends to do to increase this openness. After all, the VVD notes that there is a problem, notes that the WED is not functioning optimally, but dismisses the proposals that have now been made and does not actually make any proposals for improvement. That surprises me, also because I know Mr Veldman from the group in Nijmegen as someone who is acting against secrecy. He also remembers the letters he sent on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Why in Nijmegen, but not here in The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	I see that Mr Sjoerdsma has been well informed. I operate in The Hague no different than in Nijmegen. And yes, in Nijmegen and in The Hague I stand on behalf of the VVD for that publicity. The thing that can be public must just be public. The citizen, the journalist or anyone else should be able to access it. That is why we adopted the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act last year. I see that in practice many governments are still messing with or struggling with the proper application of that law. That law says no more than that what is public must also be available. That is where we have another battle to strike. That is why I would also like to know how much an information register costs, because we must be able to prepare ourselves for that. The simple fact that you lay down in the law that there should be an information register is not enough for me. Legislation is one, but it is ultimately about practice. In practice, you have to be able to realize it and so you also need resources. That is why I have just replied to Mrs Oosenbrug: yes and no. This law does indeed require such a register of information, but then you also have to arrange the means to do so. Maybe that should have happened a long time ago, that's true. But this initiative law is now in place, in which it is explicitly mentioned, and so you also have to reflect the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	It's a call to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	We're not gonna provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u15	That remark was not made public. I believe that this is not just an appeal to the cabinet, but an appeal to all governments. I think it's something of all times, too. We've known archive legislation for years, even when D66 was still in the cabinet. We have seen for many years that there is not enough sharpness in official organisations to ensure that the archive law is properly applied. Mr Sjoerdsma may charge that to this cabinet, but I would also charge it to all the other Cabinets. I think we should improve the culture of work together. I think we agree. However, Mr Sjoerdsma wants to change the law because he thinks it will be all right. I'm not like that; I'm looking at the practice. The simple fact that you're adopting or proposing a new law doesn't necessarily make the process different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u16	A problem has never been solved by firing an answer or a solution. I fully agree with Mr Veldman that governments are extremely lagging behind in the provision and disclosure of information. One thing is always the case: Mr Veldman is against bureaucracy and abuse, whether he is in Nijmegen or in The Hague. It is strange that we have now rigged up a whole circus with WOB requests, with rules and periodic penalty payments, which are interpreted differently and abused. This law is an attempt to resolve this by doing what Mr Veldman as a liberal should want to do, namely to make information as accessible and public as possible, so that we no longer need that whole circus. What is his objection to this and what is his solution to the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u17	As Mr Van Raak said, this law is an attempt. As I see the law now, she's an attempt that won't succeed. Moreover, with this attempt we run a lot of risks. I'm going to consider that I don't want to walk it. I do not want companies to run the risk of getting all kinds of business-sensitive information, such as manufacturing data, out on the street, which does not have to be done. You don't have to do that now, because they're making agreements with the government. The government gets that information, but in confidence, and then it stays in confidence. This law does not guarantee that that information remains in confidence. So, yeah, there's something else, but something else isn't necessarily better. We may agree on the simple fact that the culture of work is not right now. You can then come up with other legislation, but that does not automatically mean that I have to say that the other one is better too, because it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr Veldman focused on the information register. He wants to know how much that will cost and how it will be introduced. The fact is that the WOB requests show that governments often do not have their information in order and that there are major problems in doing so. There is a real problem with the government, the provinces and the municipalities. Such an information register is, of course, a wonderful means of ensuring that governments do what they need to do, namely to have their information in order. The register is really nothing more than a translation of what governments already have to do: to ensure that they have their information in order and that it can be consulted. The authors add that we also need to look at what information should be accessible and accessible to citizens. What's so terrible about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr Van Raak is now making a huge dragon of it, but I do nothing more than ask a question: what will it cost if that register of information is introduced? I do not think that is such a strange question, especially after I heard in the first term of the petitioner Voortman that she cannot guarantee that that information register will be 100% up-to-date and that everything will be put into it. We would then be spending a lot of money, and we don't even know how much money we're going to spend, but we don't even know how much money we're going to spend in the same situation. I think it is justified if I can at least ask how much it will cost at the beginning. That's not so weird, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u20	We only ask governments to do what they should have done: put their information in order and make it available. In that sense, the law is nothing new under the sun. She's asking governments to do what they should have done for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u21	That is true, but this law also brings something new: an information register in which documents can be searched. We don't know that now. That is why I asked Mrs Voortman in an interrupting debate if she wanted to move to another system, in which the citizen has no right to information but is entitled to documents. Such a system is known in a number of other countries. She thought that was a little complicated, because she couldn't guarantee that everything would be in that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors for their comprehensive reply in the first term. Thank you for the fourth letter of amendment. In my first term, I stressed the importance of an open government. Everyone in politics and administration must realise that it is a right of every citizen in this country to assume public access. So that's not a favor. Unfortunately, in the period since the start of the first term, at the end of 2014, it has again proved that it is still too often a favour. Too often I read headlines saying that a document has been wrongly withheld, that an exception has been misused or that the government has destroyed information to evade the functioning of the law. I've been there myself with the MH17 and the matter of Professor Maat. I've seen it when it comes to the effectiveness of body scanners. I have even seen the central information number of the Ministry of Economic Affairs painted black, while of course it can be found on every website. I have also seen that this was one of the most recent WOB requests, from the NIS that the names of MPs were blackmailed from debates in the Chamber, so that no one could know who had made what sneaky remark. That is just weird, and it shows, as far as I am concerned, to colleagues who have also said that a change is urgently needed. And yes, I would like to give that to Mr Veldman: only a law is never enough. That is true, of course, but this law is a very important step in that change. I also believe that the initiators have been clear on this. I also believe that they have been prepared to make concessions to gain support for this law, and I hope that they have succeeded. In the first period, pilots for the electronic register were also discussed. That suggests that a few administrative bodies are going to work and that the rest of them are going to recede. That's not supposed to happen, is it? The delayed deadline, before the register has to be up and running, was precisely intended to give everyone space so that one can take adjustments into the regular investment cycle? I'd like to get this confirmed by the proposers, to avoid any misunderstandings. Minister Plasterk, also present today, also gave an opinion to the Chamber. I would like to dwell on that in this period. Of course, I could say that the 55 million he mentioned for the electronic register at the Tax Office is nonsense. To be honest, it also seems nonsense to me, because the Tax Administration already has that hope, at least I hope, is a register in which he can find his documents and where different levels of access are built in? Then an electronic register within the meaning of the Open Government Act seems to me to be a small extra step. So I'm asking the Minister to back up that 55 million from the Tax Office. I had some inconvenience with the Minister's term anyway. He started excitedly. He even wanted a T-shirt with "Team Open Government" on it, and I can only encourage that. When we talk about culture, that is the attitude I would like to see in this cabinet. But when we look at the actions of the cabinet, it does a bit of rubbing. The NRC made a nice list of them. The government doesn't want to reveal the agenda of the Council of Ministers. In response to information requests, the government provides bundles of almost completely blackened copies. You might think that some ministries are running low on ink patterns. Is the Minister prepared to take action and support this law? Which brings me to the penalty payment. The Minister still wants to use his own loose penalty payment law, a law which is called unbalanced by a large part of this Chamber. If you only cancel the penalty without giving anything back to the applicants, I think the good ones suffer from the evil ones. The Open Government Act (Open Government Act) is also the subject of discussion here, which also removes the penalty payment, but also provides a different framework around it, with more active disclosure and narrower exceptions. So I do not see, especially now that this law has progressed again, why the minister should stick to his own law. Maybe he can respond to that. Finally, I have another motion, because now that the Information Commissioner is not going to work for the time being, I think it would be wise for the government itself to start working actively to promote this cultural change in itself. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that administrative bodies consider active disclosure and disclosure not always a citizen's right, but as a favor they do;]] [[Whereas the Open Government Act may and should be a turning point to change that attitude;]] [[calls on the Government to provide active information to administrative bodies on the functioning of the Open Government Act and, where appropriate, to facilitate training for persons in these bodies in charge of the implementation of this Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33328-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiators and the Minister for their enlightening answer to the first-term questions. Publicity of administration is a great asset in a democratic rule of law. Publicity is not an end in itself, but a means of good governance. I think there is also a fundamental difference of opinion with the proposers on this point. The initiators want to bring about a cultural change in the area of public administration. They're introducing an information commissioner. They even referred to them as the main instrument for achieving the intended cultural change. However, in the letter of amendment, they will postpone the Information Commissioner by four years. Have they not submitted a fragile letter of amendment themselves? A cultural change cannot be without support. How do the initiators assess the support for their proposals now that the Minister of State has discouraged the bill and the VNG calls it impossible and a large increase in bureaucracy? The initiators have not been able to give a clear picture of the costs involved in the legislative proposal. My colleague Veldman has already mentioned this. In their view, additional investment in ICT and administrative costs are not necessary. It is a bit downplayed by them when the demands of the bill are taken into account in the planned replacement of ICT. The register of information can then be introduced in the course of five years, so we are already five years later after the entry into force of the law. That's no later than two years after the first review of the law. How can a law be seriously evaluated if an important instrument still needs to be introduced? I shall not go into the BIT now, because Mr Veldman is tabling a motion on it. We, too, would like the BIT test to take place before consent is given. There is also a good example of this. Minister Kamp requested a BIT recommendation on the basis of the DICTU two weeks ago. The advice was not to take irreversible steps. Minister Kamp has also complied with this by putting an end to the project. Thus, a BIT test does provide more insight into the costs and feasibility of certain projects. What surprises the CDA group most is that the initiators state that no municipality in the Netherlands is ready for the Open Government Act. It is said again today: they should have been ready by now, they are lagging behind. But apparently, not a single municipality is ready yet. Isn't it a reckless bill whose impact is heavily underestimated? In the first term, the CDA Group asked the authors about the accessibility and transparency of public sector information, for example on the basis of the legislative proposal we are discussing today. That goes beyond disclosure. In this context, the pilot of the Montesquieu Institute was mentioned. This allows documents to be structured and connected at the time of publication. The website of the Eerste Kamer, which praised Mr Voortman in the first term, was developed according to that information concept. The CDA Group would like the Minister to look into the possibility of this pilot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u24	In the meantime, I'm starting to be very surprised. Do I hear it right that the CDA says: we want good and decent governance, but we are okay with municipalities not having their systems in order and we are even going to reward it by not trying to force culture change through legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u25	There's already legislation. We're not gonna make that improvement with a new big law. As Mr Van Raak also says, it is a comprehensive law. Article 60 of the Municipal Law already states that college decisions must be made public. I took another test yesterday. Grab a City D. in South Holland. There is only one rule devoted to the decisions of the College, and there is nothing else. Take a big village in North Limburg. The College Decision explicitly states what the College has decided and what views have been taken. We don't need a big new law for that. So I say yes to that cultural change, but don't make such a big law about it. That's not gonna make a cultural difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u26	I really doubt that. There are also municipalities that can manage it. I happen to live in a municipality where things are public, where everything is done neatly according to the law, where everything that comes in is digitally scanned. That's just the deal. Reward the municipalities that are doing well! If things had gone well, we wouldn't have to have new legislation. Does the spokesman for the CDA group agree with me that we are not making new legislation when things are going well? But apparently it's necessary. Because things aren't going well right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u27	I'll say it again. There is already legislation, namely the Municipal Law and other laws, which require the publication of municipal documents. We do not need a new law to do that, which only looks at the quantity of information available. I shall come back to that later on, perhaps on another occasion. I will continue my speech. The CDA Group agrees with the proposers that a cultural change is desirable in the area of public administration. This applies not only to the actions of the government towards the citizens, but also to the actions of the government towards the Chamber. Too often the Chamber is sent with an appeal to personal policy ideas with a brat in the reed. The potential for active disclosure has been increased by technology. The CDA Group agrees with the proposers that the government should make full use of these opportunities. With the legislative proposal, the initiators have shook up thinking about public administration. Again, congratulations on that. We have talked about this a lot before. However, in the opinion of the CDA Group, the legislative proposal is not the appropriate means of achieving a different culture in the area of public administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u28	I'm not gonna put my surprise in a chair or a couch. In many debates I stand here together with Mr Omtzigt of the CDA. And in many debates I am here with Mr Keijzer, also from the CDA. Then we will fight for the transparency of the administration. Then we are fighting against this kind of WOB results, against pieces in which large passages are blacked out. We are fighting to ensure that the Court receives the information it deserves, that citizens receive the information they are entitled to. And if there is one thing I have fought for with those CDA colleagues, then it is this kind of thing: catching that openness in a law and making improvements. I would ask Mr Amhaouch to explain once again, on behalf of the CDA, how this attitude of his colleagues and his attitude can co-exist here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u29	We can explain that very well. Indeed, my colleagues Mr Omtzigt and Mr Keijzer have often called for public administration. I'll put the question back. Can Mr Sjoerdsma indicate how this law will ensure that there will be fewer black-painted passages? This law does not provide for less blackened passages. This law is gonna take care of something else. Mr Sjoerdsma says that there is a very great appeal to the Public Administration Act. Does he know how many WOB requests municipalities get up to 50,000 inhabitants a year? That's nine. 85% of the municipalities in this country have 50,000 or less inhabitants. They get an average of nine WOB requests per year. We would now like to introduce a new law which will perhaps make tens, hundreds or thousands of pieces of information available to us, in order to cover those nine requests for a WOB. How can that add something extra for the citizen? How can Mr. Sjoerdsma rhyme that? Not all of the Netherlands is at the WOB, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u30	Well, now the monkey's coming out of the sleeve. Apparently, it only matters how many people actively ask for this. Above all, it should not be made available. Above all, it is not easy to obtain this information. We're gonna make this as hard as we can. Why do you think that in some municipalities the WOB requests are so limited? Because it's terribly hard to get a response in time and because it's terribly hard to get the information you want. I say to the CDA colleague: think again about your attitude in this debate. The reactions of the initiators have certainly been reassuring at your main concerns. Think again about whether your attitude is in line with how you operate elsewhere in the Chamber. I think we should be able to find each other. This is in the interests of this Chamber but also in the interests of the citizens of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr Sjoerdsma is often concerned with the goal in itself: make as much available as possible, then the citizens are happy. The CDA strongly doubts that. We agree that a cultural change must be achieved and that less blackmail should be done, but that is not going to be regulated by the new law. What the new law says about personal policy concepts is not going to regulate that there is less blackmail. There will really have to be a cultural change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u32	9 out of 50,000 residents make a WOB request. If we multiply that to 17 million inhabitants, it's still quite a lot, but that aside. The PvdA, together with the CDA, stood at the Interrupt Microphone when we dealt with the Penalty and Appeal Act in case of failure to decide in time. We thought it was disproportionate. Municipalities had a lot of trouble. The CDA felt that there was a huge abuse, but now Mr Amhaouch is playing it down a bit: it's just a couple of WOB requests and municipalities aren't that bothered. One of the proposals that we agree with is the release of the penalty payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u33	Indeed, a number of municipalities are affected by abuse. I call Dordrecht, for example. We also had the situation of that man from Limburg, from my province. Mrs Keijzer even tabled a motion. We will go along with Mr Sjoerdsma's view that it should be balanced. The idea is to remove only the penalty payment to prevent abuse and not to accommodate the applicants or the applicants to keep a stick behind the door. We should look at that in a balanced way. We also told the Minister last time that when his new law comes, there must be a balance. You can't just take the penalty off. You will also have to have a stick behind the door to meet the applicants and the applicants, so that they can receive a reply in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u34	Then we're out, because that's what's done with this law. This law is gonna take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u35	I think Mr Amhaouch can be very pleased with that. That is precisely what the law regulates. On Tuesday morning, groups always have a group meeting. Then the important issues of the week will also be discussed. I think that this initiative law was certainly discussed at the group meeting of the CDA. Was Mr Omtzigt also present at that meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr Van Raak knows that the CDA Group is a close group of thirteen well-functioning MPs. Of course, everyone is always present. This communication shall be public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u37	I often hang out with Mr Omtzigt in debates. Mr Omtzigt's strategy is always: getting information on the table, making WOB requests and other requests, continuing to ask through, continuing to ask through, getting information on the table. That also makes him a good MP. That makes us all good MPs. What was Mr Omtzigt's reaction to the CDA's position? Is he going to vote against this law, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u38	The position I am expressing here is the position of the CDA. Mr Van Raak is also shooting hail again. The requests made are often specific requests. You do not meet that by making public all the information stored anywhere, whether in the Lower House or in the municipality where you live. The point of view is: do not look for it in quantity and do not just make all kinds of information available, but look for it in quality and culture change. You don't need the new law for that. It may well be that the WOB needs to be adapted to a number of issues, but there is no need for such a comprehensive law as the Open Government Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u39	The main concerns of the CDA relate to the prevention of abuse and the fact that a lot of requests for information are constantly being made, which means that public authorities and civil servants have an enormous amount of work to do. However, as soon as this law is introduced, the registers are established and the information is public, there is no need for periodic penalty payments and no need for officials to work anymore. I listened very carefully to Mr Amhaouch's speech. In fact, this law is exactly the answer to his questions and objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u40	In doing so, Mr Van Raak trivializes the work that is behind this. In the new situation, all information must be made public. The regular WOB requests remain when the Open Government Act is in place. If citizens want information back in time, they will have to submit a WOB request. It takes manpower. If the Open Government Act were to enter into force today, officials would have to make the internal reports available. Those reports will have to be reviewed before they reach the net. Mr Van Raak trivializes the work that needs to be done in this respect, as he pretends that the same document can be placed one on one in a register. That is why it is very important that Actal and BIT check what impact this has on our public bodies, because we all have an interest in providing good services for our citizens. We don't do that by shooting hail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, on behalf of the PvdA Group, I have already expressed my appreciation of the initiators, but I would like to do so again now, because Mr Van Weyenberg has now moved in. He has taken over Mr Schouw's baton on behalf of D66. I would also like to thank the initiators for their comprehensive answers to the questions of the Chamber and certainly those of my group. My group was in principle positive-critical of this initiative. We appreciate the commitment to create a government that uses "open, unless" as a standard working method. However, my group still had a number of doubts. Honestly, the initiators have listened carefully to our concerns. They met the PvdA with this letter of amendment in many respects. However, my group is still struggling with the information register. In order to manage that properly, I have prepared a motion, together with Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Open Government Act provides for an information register;]] [[Whereas the register of information shall enter into force at a time to be determined by Royal Decree;]] [[considers that administrative bodies should be able to take into account depreciation periods and replace existing document information systems when setting up the information register;]] [[considers that administrative bodies should have sufficient time to set up the information register;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that two or more administrative bodies start experimenting with an information register within one year of the adoption of the Open Government Act, assessing the effectiveness and cost of information registers already in place in these runners;]] [[Invites the Government to bring into force the Register of Information no later than five years after the entry into force of the Open Government Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oosenbrug and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33328-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. Members of this Chamber are regularly on the interrupting microphone. The demand for information is high. We often feel that we do not get the information we need to do our job properly. You simply cannot perform a controlling task properly without a proper provision of information. I understand that there is cold feet for more openness and transparency, for more information, available to anyone who wants it for any reason. Journalists, citizens, MPs; the call for transparency is great, also to restore confidence between citizens and government. The question of whether this law will bring about the desired cultural change will only be answered if we get to work on it. With the right guarantees, the right handles and not least the confidence in our officials, because they will eventually have to do the most work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u43	I still see people calling in for an interruption. Mr Amhaouch is the fastest at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u44	I have a question for Mr Oosenbrug. I also see Mr Oosenbrug in many other committees when it comes to ICT projects and BIT tests. On the occasion of the temporary Elias Commission, the Chamber itself wanted to bring about a cultural change in this house, so that the BIT test would be carried out in the case of major projects. In view of the comments made by Mrs Oosenbrug's own Minister about the possible cost of 50 million for the Tax Administration about two weeks ago, I wonder how she can justify that the PvdA does not like that BIT test. How can she motivate the PvdA to say it's a bad time so we skip it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u45	That amount of 55 million. I've challenged the interrupting microphone. Furthermore, it is not a question of'my own' minister. I believe very much in dualism. If you know me as a Member of Parliament, you should know that, too. The group operates independently of the cabinet. That is my response to the question about "my own minister." I believe that this minister belongs to all of us, to this whole Chamber. The question about the BIT test is interesting. It is indeed about large-scale ICT projects in the government. The Open Government Act is about openness at every separate government branch, from local to large governments. The fun thing is that right now a digi commissioner is getting a picture of what's going on with the digitalization of documents in the government. We're talking about what's not going well. The Digi Commissioner is mapping that out. So much is happening already. I believe that the costs of digitalisation, which should actually be in order, should not be laid down in a new legislative proposal. That's all I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr Oosenbrug is, of course, right: we only have one Minister for Foreign Affairs, so that is "our" Minister. We do have to share it. However, the Minister has appointed something that Mrs Oosenbrug cannot wipe off the table. I conclude that she is simply calling into question the fact that we are talking about millions of dollars when we want to give a lot of priority to other matters, for example in the care sector being made with the Tax Office. She says: there is dualism, the minister is everyone's, but that aside, a BIT test is not good because it should only be about ICT projects of the Empire. You can't miss out on a project like this, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u47	I note that my colleague from the CDA is listening very badly. I'm sorry about that, but well, that's an observation on my part. Here's what I'm saying. The BIT tests large-scale ICT projects. That is what we have chosen together in this Chamber. We said, "From $5 million." I'm fighting the tax authorities to spend $55 million on one information register. I'll fight that. I also asked the Minister to back that up. So I'm not playing games, but I'm fighting it. I do that because in a previous life I was a system administrator among others. I have built systems and I know what the costs can be, whether it's a small system or a very large system. I said that I do not think 55 million is a reasonable amount and I asked for support. This is unrelated to the question of whether I would accept the ICT-Tuting (BIT) Office. I think I have just been one of the proposers of the motion, along with the VVD, to put that BIT in place and put it into effect. In fact, only five parties were present during that debate. If you ask how important it is, I say that the Labour Party was one of those parties. The CDA was there, by the way, but that aside. But don't act like it doesn't matter to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u48	I'd like to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u49	Yeah, I'll be interrupting for a very short time. I think that we, the House of Representatives, have themselves set up an organisation, namely the project agency, the BIT, with expertise. I think that we should let these people do the work instead of having each individual Member of Parliament test under the heading: I have worked in technology, you have worked in technology and so on. If we do that, we will not get an objective picture. Let an independent organisation do that review, for example Actal or BIT. Then we know what we're talking about and even then a majority of the House can decide which direction we're heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u50	I didn't hear another question. I did hear the assumption that as an individual of this Chamber, I would decide something. Luckily, I don't have that power, so I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u51	I myself have tabled an amendment to ensure that the free exchange of views between officials and directors can take place undisturbed, so that, if the law is adopted, it is not possible to launch a boat directly. The aim is therefore that this free exchange of views can continue in private. I saw that Mrs Oosenbrug had tabled an amendment with Mr Segers aimed at excluding the exchange of views between officials and MPs or parliamentary groups, perhaps it is about forms of negotiation, scenario thinking, so that secrecy rests on it. Why choose to make this exception? Is there a difference for Mrs Oosenbrug between the contact between MPs and civil servants and between directors and civil servants when it comes to policy alternatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u52	This amendment is actually about what Mr Segers started with in the previous period. He said: imagine that there are new coalition negotiations. Then we're gonna be very wild. We'll come up with a scenario. However, it can be painful for one of the parties. That doesn't mean there's gonna be that scenario, but you're gonna have it investigated. After all, you want a good coalition to come about and a good coalition agreement. I guess you might want to let a brooding chicken rest for a while instead of throwing it out in the open. If you did, you could disrupt the entire process of coalition negotiations. I think that's what the Open Government Act says. That is where the freedom of policy has been taken back. The initial proposal went too far for my group. This has now been reversed as stated in the original proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u53	This is clear, but I think the amendment tabled goes a little further. The proposers do not specifically express their views on formation discussions and negotiations with a view to establishing a new cabinet. They express their views on transfers of draft proposals, on objective data on scenarios on the table in the context of parliamentary negotiations. That's a broad understanding. We've talked more often to see if we can work things together. This therefore applies to the full period of the Chamber rather than just to the beginning. What's the difference? I'm talking about that brooding chicken. Why make an exception for the contact between the administration and MPs, while the Open Government Act generally states that everything must be done publicly? Then why is an exception proposed specifically for Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u54	I doubt that that law will see that everything goes public. It is primarily a cultural change. Secondly, we will have to ensure that the official can still do his job. If there are five scenarios that they discuss with each other or that have been discussed and there are three very wild ideas that fall under "think away from the fist" or "shoot away from a prick" or whatever term you use for that, the question is whether all that information should be made public. The question I have also raised with the initiators is whether this kind of information should all be made public. Don't you come to the freedom of the official, who says: I want to be able to shout things, or else I go to the coffee machine? I believe that this is the same as what is stated in this amendment. However, Mr Segers' question was whether it was properly protected. If there is any doubt about that, I think we can tighten it up with an amendment. The purpose of the amendment was to ensure that we as Members of Parliament or as coalition-formators do not get the idea that we cannot allow things to be passed on freely and that we have to do it in secret in another way, so that it never comes out. That's not what you want. In the end, you want the way to that disclosure to come and be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague Segers in this second term. On his behalf, I would like to thank the initiators for their first-term response. The basic idea of this law, an open government, is sympathetic to the Christian Union, but we also had a lot of concerns and points where we found the law going too far. I am pleased that the initiators have already met us on important points. By letter of amendment, all necessary adjustments have been made. The position of the Court of Auditors was important to us and it is now well secured. A proper evaluation of this law is now also in place. I am also pleased that the latest letter of amendment provides additional protection for information on vital infrastructure. I read the law in such a way that information about that vital infrastructure does not need to be released. That reassures me. Of course, it is very good that semi-public public institutions cannot be brought under the scope of this law without that decision being submitted to the Chamber. That's taken away some of our concerns. I do have a number of questions and concerns. In a previous life, as director of the Foundation for Technical Sciences, I have seen a lot of WOB requests coming along. Actually, I've always been very relaxed about that. A WOB request isn't such a drama at all. But sometimes you can't give information. I would like to give an example that will also appeal to the Minister. When you submit a research plan to NWO or to STW as a scientist, that is a plan that you want to keep confidential, as it contains your smartest ideas. You don't want them lying on the street like that. Then an organisation like NWO or STW sends that plan to four or five experts worldwide, and they can comment on it anonymously. This will then be a "hear and hear" procedure. The strict confidentiality that NWO can give to its customers, the scientists who come up with their beautiful plans, is crucial for that profession. I would like to hear from the initiators whether such cases will be explicitly protected. This concerns in particular the confidential correspondence between WOB-able entities, where the strict confidentiality is crucial for the performance of the mission they carry out on behalf of the government. I read the law in such a way that business data that are competitive and those of the government itself and therefore not provided are covered by the exceptions. As far as company data is concerned, caution is very important, even if they are later covered by an exception. Does this also apply to other highly competitive activities, such as science? I would like to receive an explanation from the Minister for the Interior as to how this caution will take shape in practice. Maybe he can share something about that from his previous life. In the first term, it was also about the criminal investigation work of the Lower House in the framework of the Ministerial Responsibility Act. Because of the protection of suspects, this work does not relate to disclosure. It is clear that the Committee of Inquiry itself decides on this subject on the basis of existing legislation. The Open Government Act does nothing about that and that is important to note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr Bruins sets out a wonderful example of information that I think everyone will say is not something that should be on the streets: the research proposal of a scientist who is funded by NWO, a semi-public organisation, because public funding risks his information being on the streets. In the first period and again in the second period, I asked the applicants to outline which organisations should be included in the AMvB and which should not be included in the AMvB. To date, the applicants have not responded. Does Mr Bruins agree with me that, if we adopt the law, we should know which organisations will and which will not be covered by this law in the light of the risks outlined at the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u57	The example came from the context of a Zbo. Such a zbo is covered by the WOB and later by the Open Government Act. It is good to note that in the past, too, a relative balance of interests has always been used in the argument against the applicants of a WOB request. That went well, because the importance was clear. I would particularly like to hear from the authors of this law and from the Minister whether this balance of interests will also take shape in practice under the new law in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u58	I understand that, but the proposers say that they want to regulate the scope of the law to a large extent by AMvB. So we do not know yet how big and far-reaching this scope is. I think that is important to know when this law is passed. I'd like to hear from Mr Bruins how he looks at this. Is it important in his eyes that we know at the front how big the scope is, or does he have something like "well, we'll see about that and we'll find out if we're at risk"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u59	As I understand the law, semi-public public institutions will not be able to be brought within the scope of this law without the Court having taken a decision on it first. At least that takes away part of our concern. We still have concerns and questions on a number of points. We have tabled two amendments on this subject. In the first amendment, the term "serious damage" is deleted from the law. This amendment was tabled by my colleague Segers together with Mr Veldman of the VVD Group. The amendment reduces the wording of the weighting of the relative exceptions in the state as it existed in the Public Administration Act. We believe that this is important, because it can be linked to existing case-law on the balance of interests. We do not want to create a new boom in case law on the application of the relative exceptions. The example I just gave was a specific example of that. This amendment does not need to justify the seriousness of the damage to the interest in question or the serious disadvantage. All grounds are always concerned with the substantive consideration of whether the importance of public access outweighs the interest involved. That must of course be justified, and that is why our amendment regulates it neatly. I come to my group's second amendment. I am pleased that it has become clear that the scope for the ventilation of personal policy views is large and that MPs, ministers and officials can pass on peaceful policy ideas and scenarios to each other. The free exchange of views in the interests of the parliamentary, administrative and political process must always be ensured. Objective data must be made public. In that context, I have one more concern that I want to cover up extra. In the political process during negotiations on budgetary agreements and formations, you want a free exchange of views. You don't want parties to be afraid to investigate the facts because of fear that a public war will then be carried out later. This must fall within the context of personal policy concepts, even if they contain objective data. My colleague Segers, together with Mrs Van Oosenbrug, has tabled an amendment which underlines this once again. In addition, we are concerned about the information register. If we are to introduce this in five years' time, it is important to have information about the costs and effects of such a register. That is why, together with Mrs Oosenbrug, I have drawn up a motion asking the government to ensure that the registers are properly implemented and evaluated without the government leaning backwards. So there must be a good pilot. I'm rounding up. The basic idea of this bill is sympathetic, but there are also concerns. In addition, many changes have been made during the course of treatment. I am therefore waiting for the answer in the second period with extraordinary interest. After that, my group will have to get its head straight and come to a final judgment on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u60	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. The initiators and advisors of the Chamber have indicated that they need more than twenty minutes to prepare their response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u61	I shall first give the floor to the initiators for their answer and then to Minister Plasterk. The debate has shown that there are differences of opinion. It's possible. This should be done in a parliament, but let us not repeat things that have been discussed extensively in the first term. Let us confine ourselves to the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will try to confine ourselves to the core, but we do want to give a good response to the various issues that have been discussed. First of all, I would like to mention the fact that my predecessor Mariko Peters is here. During the first period, I also mentioned her and thank her for all the work she has done on this important legislative proposal. She couldn't be there at the time, but I'm very glad she's here now. Mariko, thank you. I am passing through the various amendments and motions, and I come from them to the questions. The amendments that have not been discussed in my contribution will be dealt with in Mr Van Weyenberg's contribution. The Veldman/Bisschop amendment to item No. 23 is about extending the scope of the law. Mr Veldman proposes in the amendment that the extension of the scope of the law which we intend to see be deleted. This is seen both in the extension of the scope already provided for in the law and in the extension to the semi-public sector of AMvB. It is clear that we do not recommend this amendment. As we pointed out in the first period, it is important that the question of which organisations will be covered by the Open Government Act be considered more broadly. I would also point out that we initially went much further in terms of scope. This legislative proposal was originally based on the list of organisations to which the Top Income Standards Act applied. There is also a public obligation for the semi-public sector. The disadvantage of that system was that all semi-public organisations would then have to cancel information requests. In the end, we decided to respond to the criticisms voiced, among others, by the Council of State and the comments made by others. We have therefore decided to regulate the extension to the semi-public sector at AMvB. This means that an AMvB must stipulate that certain information from certain institutions must be made public by a minister or other designated administrative body. Mr Veldman asked us to indicate exactly what we want to fall under this heading, but the point is that this is not possible. By offering the possibility to settle this at AMvB, we want to avoid that this is necessary. In response to the contribution of the Christian Union, we have decided to arrange for such an AMvB to come. If the Minister submits the proposal to the Chamber and if he agrees, there may be an extension for very specific sectors of the semi-public sector. But we cannot now indicate which sectors they are, because that is precisely what should be decided. I know that Mr Veldman feels differently. I find that a little difficult, because first the criticism is that it is far too broad, and then, when we give a hand on it, it is said that we have to indicate exactly what we want. I am very sorry, but we have no choice but to discourage this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mrs. Voortman is making it absolutely absolute now. Yes, there was criticism, also from the Council of State and from the VVD and other parliamentary groups, of a number of organisations mentioned in the first versions of the initiative law, because there are quite a few risks involved. You can point out to the left and right some organisations that are semi-public, but which you can seriously ask yourself are the most obvious organisations to be covered by this law. Mrs Voortman now says: I do not call organisations at all, because then I am done with all the whining; that is easy, because then I am done. What's her image? What would that AMvB look like later? What direction does it intend to take; which sectors should be included and which should not? I think she should be able to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u64	I would like to say that we have not taken this out just to get rid of it, but precisely to show that we are dealing with this very carefully. That is precisely what we are doing in order to say: the AMvB sets out which bodies should make what information public and we cannot now say that it should cover them and those bodies. That wouldn't be appropriate. If we wanted to, we would have put it in the law right away. So much for what I wanted to say about extending the scope. Mr Veldman has tabled two motions, one on BIT and one on Actal. They asked if we could have extra research on that. Mr Veldman also referred to the opinion of the Council of State. We have made a great deal of changes to that opinion. That's what's come back to this. In the motion-Veldman c.s. in piece No. 29 the government is invited to seek additional advice from Actal. The point is that the law is slowing down again if we do that. Following Actal's letter, we made changes to the bill. We would therefore say that it is undesirable to seek additional advice from Actal. I gave an extensive response to the VVD's request in the initial replies. For those reasons, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u65	In my view, Parliament and later the user of the possibly adopted Open Government Act cannot be accused of having been a year and a half between the first term of the Chamber and the first term of the proposers. We have therefore been waiting a while, but that is no reason why we should not look at what this means for the burden of regulation and the burden of burdens. In my view, that is also the advice of Actal.... should be made clear on the front. Surely we can't saddle the rest of the Netherlands with a law that we don't know what the outcome is. Mrs. Voortman will. I repeat my request that I have also made in the motion: is Mrs Voortman prepared to have Actal seriously investigate the burden of regulation and burden? So I am not just referring to the letter from Actal in which it expressed its concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u66	It is precisely because this was the request of the Chamber that we attach urgency to this matter. Mr Veldman asked for the Open Government Act to be dealt with quickly in the internal affairs budget. That is why we are doing so now, also in connection with tackling the abuse of the WOB. There have been extensive comments from all kinds of agencies, including Actal. That's why we don't think that advice adds anything. That's why we don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u67	If only for the purposes of imaging, the VVD called on the other spokesmen to move quickly to the examination of this initiative proposal, when examining Minister Plasterk's bill, which was intended to remove the penalty payment from the WOB. In fact, we agreed that the proposal for an own-initiative act should be dealt with in advance of the Minister's proposal. That's why we asked for speed. I did not ask for carelessness, but that is what Mrs Voortman is doing to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u68	That is an accusation that I'm far removed from myself. I have just said that extensive advice has been given by all kinds of organisations. Then there comes a point where you have to say: this is what is now lying; are you for or against? Unfortunately, what the VVD is going to vote is now clear. The motion-Veldman c.s. in piece No. 30 is for BIT advice. An opinion from the BIT is only discussed when there is a national ICT system. As Mrs Oosenbrug quite rightly said in the first term, this is not the case now. Administrative bodies should include the introduction of the information register in their regular ICT renewals. This is not a national ICT system that would cost more than 5 million. Should the government choose at AMvB to fill in the register in such a way that a national model is desired, then a BIT opinion can be requested on that AMvB. We, as proposers, are in favour of this. At present, however, there is no major ICT project. Then it is very strange to say that we will only vote on this bill when there is a BIT opinion. Because there's nothing to submit to the BIT. That is why we do not recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u69	How do the proposers prevent them from taking irreversible steps? I just gave the example of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which asks for a BIT test and listens to the advice of an expert group in this house. The Prophets say to judge it differently. SEO's report has also raised considerable costs, including costs for the information register. The applicants say that there is no cost involved, but that is not correct on the basis of the SEO report and the findings of the Court's expert group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u70	The question was how to prevent irreversible steps. We prevent that by having an AMvB at the time when there is actually a large ICT project. A BIT opinion can be requested on this AMvB. At that moment there is really something to submit to the BIT. The motion-Oosenbrug/Bruins in part No. 32 is about the entry into force of the register and how we are going to speed it up. We have indicated that the creation of the register can be taken into account in ICT investment. There's a lot down there already. If you build on that, it doesn't have to cost much at all. I have listened with pleasure to Mrs Oosenbrug's contribution, which I believe is very expert on this subject. I see her motion as an additional incentive not to wait too long. The motion calls for at least two or more administrative bodies to experiment with an information register within one year of the adoption of the Open Government Act. I think that's a very good idea. We are therefore in favour of this motion. Mr Amhaouch asked us about the criticism of the Association of Dutch Municipalities. In recent years we have discussed this proposal several times with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, because we also attach great importance to its contribution. On the basis of these talks with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, we met her wishes on several points. For example, the deadline for active disclosure is extended from one to two weeks, the introduction of the Information Commissioner has been postponed until after the evaluation and the definition of personal policy concepts has become more acute and less extensive. On the criterion of serious damage, to which the UNG also criticised, the Christian Union has now tabled an amendment which we are in favour of. Then at some point you come to the question of whether we can agree or not. Unfortunately, we note that the UNG has a different view of the importance of this law than we do. That doesn't have to be a big deal; sometimes you have a difference of opinion, but we have made a lot of adjustments and we have to come to the conclusion that we do not fully agree on this. This is, of course, common, but we have done our utmost to incorporate the criticism of the UNG into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u71	I don't know if that's another vision. I have read the input of the VNG and I think that there are some points in it, especially with regard to the importance for the citizens. However, I am much more concerned and I ask you whether you share these concerns. After all, this is not just about the VNG. Yesterday we heard the opinion of the VNG, the IPO and the Union of Water Councils, who have absolutely no confidence in this. So this is actually about the whole of the local and regional government. How do you explain that? Would you just put that next to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u72	When drivers see such a law, I can imagine that they are initially a bit scared and that the law may seem difficult, but we are working on this because we want to change something. We are really driven by the urge to make changes. Then you look at the law to see what we can modify to remove the objections as much as possible. At some point, you'll come to a point where you'll "Agree to Disagree." Mr Amhaouch also said in his speech that we would have said that all the municipalities are lagging behind. That is not the case. I think there are differences between them. I wanted to make that right. When to enter the information register has been requested. I have already referred to the motion by Mr Bruins and Mrs Oosenbrug, but for the sake of clarity I note that the Open Government Act provides for the provision on the register of information to be introduced by Royal Decree. It is therefore intended that the Royal Decree will come into force when the administrative bodies have built such a register and are thus able to comply with the law. We have chosen to do so, because we want to prevent administrative bodies from integrating an information register into their systems before regular ICT replacements take place. This is precisely how costs can be saved. Until then, administrative bodies have to account in their annual reports for the progress of creating a register, but at the same time we shared the concern of Mrs Oosenbrug and Mr Bruins: you should not wait too long for the register to enter into force. That is why I think their motion is a good one, because it encourages this to be started quickly. We are therefore in favour of this motion. Mr Bruins gave a very concrete example from his own working practice at the NWO. He was right to say that the NWO is an independent administrative body. Indeed, both the Public Administration Act and the Open Government Act apply to this. The example rightly makes it clear that this is information that could threaten competitiveness. We can all imagine that you want to secure that information. I have not seen the responses to the WOB requests that Mr Bruins has received, but I can imagine that he will look at disproportionate disadvantage or the new ground "competitive business data'. With this motivation, I do not think there is any reason to fear that research plans that are competitive will be thrown out. I hope that I have responded sufficiently to the very specific example of the Christian Union Group. I believe I've answered all the questions. That is why I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u73	You propose to give Mr Van Weyenberg the floor, and I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u74	Of course, Mr. Chairman. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. You're in charge today. I shall deal with the remaining amendments and Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. After that, I will answer a number of specific questions. Then I will say a very brief final word. The first amendment, the amendment to item No. 22, by Mr Segers and Mr Veldman, on the weighting of the term'serious harm'. We discussed this thoroughly in the first half of the year, and that was extremely sensible. We have argued, as the authors, that we are above all in favour of a more careful balance, not in Mr Segers' words, to 'distort the scales in advance', but to ensure a balanced balance. The amendment also stresses this and stresses that this is precisely about explicating that weighting. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr Veldman and Mr Bishop have tabled three amendments. Mr Veldman is very clear: he sees no need for this new law. He will not be surprised that the proposers disagree with him. The three amendments are actually meant to bring out things that are added by the Open Government Act. The fact that we, as proposers, regret this, and that we do not think it wise, will not surprise Mr Veldman and Mr Bishop. The first of these three amendments concerns personal policy views. In my view, we have just tried to ensure, in the third letter of amendment, that this policy intimacy, to which we also attach great importance, can be monitored. At the same time, we have tried to do something about improper use. Mr Sjoerdsma waved in interruptions with some examples of this. That is why I do not recommend this amendment, because this would bring that clarification out again. The same applies to Amendment No 2. 25 members Veldman and Bishop. This is aimed at going back to the absolute exception. I would point out that it does not exist now for the environmental data contained in the Aarhus Convention. We have also had an extensive exchange of views with the Chamber on this matter. Whatever needs to be kept secret can be kept secret. There can be no misunderstanding about that. Where there is no public interest and there is no administrative body involved, this Open Government Act is not at all addressed. In this sense, in my opinion, the concerns are sometimes increased. We have really tried in the third letter of amendment to do justice to the concerns, but this is not true. I would also point out that we have even added competitively sensitive information on manufacturing and business data to Woo in relation to the Wob. But indeed, it is relative and only when it comes to cases already held by an administrative body which serve a public interest. So we also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u76	I have a question along the lines of this answer. We are talking about manufacturing or competitive information, but I would like to return it to the municipalities. Suppose in a reclassification four municipalities turn into one municipality. We don't need four town halls. So three have to be sold. The municipality has a valuation report made. The new law requires this to be made public within two weeks, but the plans may not have been implemented at all. How does Mr Van Weyenberg view this? Is this information just posted on the Internet in accordance with the Open Government Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u77	I assume they'll try to sell. Then it would be foolish to give this information to all bidders at that stage. So my answer is no. To be honest, that is also the objection I have to the line of both Mr Amhaouch and Mr Veldman. Here we are constantly trying to paint a kind of image of naivety: everything but publicly without any regard for the weighting grounds. That's not what the law says, and deep down, I think we actually know. I shall now turn to the amendment tabled by Mr Veldman and Mr Bishop on item No. 26 on the Information Commissioner. Let it be clear that you need to think very carefully about setting up an institution. That can indeed cost serious money. That is a legitimate question which we have discussed at length. However, the authors consider this to be a very important change. Countries such as the United Kingdom, Canada and Slovenia are already working satisfactorily on this. The amendment proposes not to introduce the information Commissioner into the law already in four years' time, but to introduce it to AMvB. Mr Van Raak is not here, but I am now addressing him explicitly, because he said he had doubts about this. It is precisely the knowledge that the Commissioner will be there in four years' time that an extra stick is behind the door for cultural change. If everyone does it fantastic, it can be filled in very modestly. If it turns out that cultural change is not taking place, it is likely that it will become a larger and more sensitive institution. You could say, "You can do that later." I am afraid, however, that the idea is 'we'll see about that'. We give four years. A number of members of the Chamber have asked for this. But we're gonna make sure he gets there. The degree of implementation and the extent of this instrument depend on the extent to which cultural change takes place. However, we think it is very important that the law should now include the Commissioner for Information in four years' time. Should the Chamber reach a different verdict after the evaluation, the members will be men and women enough to change anything about it, but the approach is that there will be one. That is the line of the proposers, and we therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u78	My comment is quite separate from what the authors have said in previous comments. In fact, they think that the information Commissioner is the most important tool to bring about cultural change. It is remarkable that the knee fall was made to set it only after four years. However, it remains remarkable that this information Commissioner will be there anyway. Or the initiators assume that it will not be possible to achieve this cultural change. Indeed, that proves that a law does not do that. Or they're burdening future parliamentarians because they'll still have to change the law to get that information commissioner out. Mr Van Raak was right in his interruption: if the law now provides for an information commissioner to be appointed if the evaluation shows that the work has not been done properly, then that is also a stick behind the door. That's how we handle most things in this country. That's the stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u79	I simply disagree with Mr Veldman. We want it there in four years' time. Frankly, I find it silly that Mr Veldman asks for gifts in first and second terms and then says at every hand-out: do you ever see anything wrong? That's the department "it's no good or it's no good." That is the approach I feel from the VVD Group about this whole legal process. The VVD wants to postpone. I refer to the motions that Mrs Voortman spoke about. The VVD wants to weaken the law: see the amendments. The essence is that the VVD is apparently very satisfied with the WOB. However, we want more openness. We want more openness. We choose to do so, but apparently the VVD Group does not. That disappoints me very much, but that is of course her right to do so. Mr Veldman is not responding; apparently that was convincing. The last amendment is the amendment by Mr Segers and Mr Oosenbrug to item No. 28. I am now looking at Mr Bruins with a crooked eye. We have tried to ensure that the work of individual Members of Parliament is not covered by the law. If I understand the amendment correctly, the authors have concerns about this. In the run-up to agreements there are sometimes informal settings. Both the group of which Mr Bruins is a member and the groups of D66, GroenLinks and the SGP have gained some experience in recent years. Things that are exchanged can then be made public, not through the Member of Parliament involved and who may have asked for certain things, but through the Minister who may be asked as a governing body to make material available to the public. This is not about his personal policy concept, such as policy variants. I still have to see if that's gonna happen, I'm telling you the truth. I also doubt that I personally would be very sorry. Such a conversation has led to something which has made it public. And if something has not been done, groups can say: precisely because we do not want this kind of thing, no agreement has been reached. We are therefore not convinced of the need for this amendment and we do not recommend it. Here's what I'm gonna say. Sometimes I put an exclamation mark behind my "dissuade," but now I almost say it whispering. Again, I understand where the care comes from. I think that at the end of the day I will be a little different from the proposers, and that is why I would advise against the amendment. I am, of course, curious as to what the final opinion of the Chamber will be. I come to the Sjoerdsma motion, which is actually going the other way. The motion calls on the government to work on more information and possible training before that information commissioner arrives. Of course it is not for me to advise on this; that is ultimately up to the Minister. But let me say that at least this is very much in the spirit of what the proposers are aiming at. Of course, I should have started by saying how pleased I am that Mrs Peters is here, but in order not to disturb the surprise effect, I wanted to do so halfway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u80	I just thought that the proposers would discourage the Sjoerdsma motion, because they themselves claim that the new Open Government Act will bring about the intended cultural change. This motion calls for a proper explanation of that law and for everyone to be properly trained and leashed so that everyone knows how to do it all. We can do the same with the current WOB, so why do they support this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u81	I'd almost say, "You're doing it again!" That is precisely the point: this is a support in the back of the law. You would have been quite right if the motion on the current WOB had been tabled; I personally would have thought this was a very good idea. However, I am standing here today to defend the Woo, along with Mrs Voortman, and I think it is a support. I think it's interesting, because apparently there's a line of thought behind this. You say that a change in the law will not work, because it is a change in culture. But for such a culture change, you obviously don't trust the law. Well, in such a case it is: it is either not good or it is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u82	I would ask Mr Veldman to intervene briefly, because you continue to disagree and the interruptions are very long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u83	For the sake of clarity, Mr Van Weyenberg, it is a simple conclusion that changing a law does not automatically lead to cultural change. He does now, and that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u84	For me, this reaction confirms exactly the line I just chose at the motion. We have a law, and there are also instruments that can help with this cultural change by stimulating the implementation of that law. I've come to a few specific questions. Mr Amhaouch asked whether the evaluation could take place after three years instead of four years. That is a choice we made in the third letter of amendment, because other colleagues in this Chamber attach great importance to it. I am thinking in particular of Mr Segers. I would like to thank Mr Bruins for the sympathy he expressed for the law. The proposers have appreciated this. I am also pleased that he said in his speech that on a number of points in the third and fourth letters of amendment we have tried to do justice to the concerns of the Christian Union Group. In my view, the Christian Union has made a justified point of the General Court and has rightly been concerned that semi-public organisations will only be covered by AMvB. Mr Veldman weighed that as a weakness, but we thought that this would do justice to the concerns of Mr Segers and Mr Bruins, who spoke today on behalf of the Christian Union. Mr Bruins also asked about the Committee of Inquiry and the Schouten Committee. The Committee of Inquiry is subject to a separate law with separate agreements on confidentiality, and that is a good thing. In the rear of the Woo, the agreements in that law are referred to, for example, those on confidentiality. In the first period, we have spent quite a long time discussing the Schouten Committee, which I believe has acted on the basis of legislation of 1855. We think it would be wise to make separate agreements on confidentiality when the law is amended. That committee actually had to work within a somewhat outdated legal framework. This was a matter of criminal prosecution, so we believe that secrecy was guaranteed in any case, but I think it would be wise to include good confidentiality agreements in an amendment to that law. I have come to the end of the answer to the questions put to me. We await with interest the final judgment of the Chamber. I just wanted to say that the Public Administration Act is now 25 years old and, as far as we are concerned, needs to be replaced. In the field of the information register and the Commissioner for Information, we have been overtaken by the countries around us. The legislation has really been overtaken by the opportunities that technology offers us to make things public. Above all, we have been overtaken by the growing social conviction that public access should be better protected. In NRC Handelsblad yesterday, we were quite right to say that too often public access seems to be a favour rather than a right. We believe that this remark was a blow to the head. After all the words about the importance of public access, it is now up to us to take action. I am certainly looking at the groups that still have their hesitations at the moment, and in particular at Mr Amhaouch. We are making the same appeal to the government, of course, but the Minister knows that. Mrs Oosenbrug made it very clear: if the law really succeeds in this cultural change, you won't know until the end of the day when you've started doing it. The law contains a number of instruments and measures which, as far as we are concerned, give us real support. The alternative is to do nothing and hope that cultural change will act as a thunderbolt in the clear sky. I think, however, that the conclusion is now, after 25 years of WOB, that this has not been achieved to the extent to which all this was intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of short, let me start by referring to my contribution and advice in the first term, which I also congratulated on the initiative proposal and on those who originally started it. I would like to stress once again that I attach great importance to openness and openness. Partly for this reason I have also developed various plans and discussed with the Chamber in the areas of open data and open government. I have also experienced support for this in the Chamber, so we will continue to do so in any case. I do not want to fall into a debate of principle, but I am inclined to agree with those who said in the first term that openness and openness are indeed an end in itself. In fact, I see it as part of the democratic process that citizens can get information that rests with the government, unless there is a good reason not to. However, as was discussed in the first period, I do have a number of reservations about the specific proposal that is now before us. I am now going to confine myself to that proposal, and I refer to those comments, although that was not an exhaustive list. In any case, I came to the conclusion that the present proposal, in this form, cannot ultimately lead to a positive opinion on the part of the government. That is why I have not gotten to the comments that may still be made on smaller points. Let me explain the two main objections here. Firstly, it is good practice that, when the government introduces a law with profound consequences for other levels of government, there is an administrative consultation to reflect and agree on its consequences. This is also the result of Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act. That does not mean that there should always be agreement, but there should be the beginning of a view of that, and I do not think that there is any such agreement. Secondly, there is the budget. When we come up with a proposal, we must also be disciplined to ensure that that proposal is covered when a law is passed, and that is not the case. There is no budget with an estimate of the costs. I mentioned the last time I said at that time that I am not going to estimate that further, because my information in the Tax Office led to large amounts, and I mentioned 55 million. I have focused further on the departments of BZK and OCW, both of which I know well, on the number of documents that would be covered by the definition of documents to be entered in the register. These are social correspondences such as appeals, complaints and other letters, including citizen letters and applications such as grant applications and licence applications. For these two departments there are more than one million per year. They all have to be provided with metadata so that they are searchable, and they need to be screened for exceptions to see whether they really need to be in the public domain, or whether they need to be protected because they are covered by the exception. Without sticking a number there, it just brings with it many FTEs that will have to do so. We are only talking about those two departments and only about documents in the field of social correspondence. There is no covered budget, and for that reason, unfortunately, I cannot help but dissuade the proposal. I would add that parts of the law might not be introduced now, but only later at KB, but that does not relieve the Chamber of providing cover if the law is adopted. Otherwise, a minister, myself or a successor of mine, could at any time decide to turn it into an KB now, and then the Chamber never really got to consider the cover, let alone the First Chamber could get to it, which, of course, will look at it in a moment. So that is the second objection to the budget, and perhaps I should make a comment from there before I come to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u86	However, I would like to mention the examples that the Minister refers to. Last time, there was the example of the Tax Administration, where the Minister said it would cost EUR 55 million. I asked him what he was basing that on. I would like to know what the Minister is basing that amount of 55 million on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u87	I asked the IRS how many pieces she handles a year. I think I mentioned them last time. They should all be assessed individually and provided with metadata. They should also be included in the register and should be anonymised if there are names in it so that they can be made public wherever possible. I also asked how much FTE that would bring. The tax authority's estimate was that it was going to be 55 million, given the number of pieces. Mr Sjoerdsma may then say that it is only 30 million; I do not think it would be useful to start arguing about this now. I think this should be budgeted independently. It is also responsible governance to have the budget in place when you adopt such a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u88	It is the Minister's right to think that something should be budgeted independently, but the Minister himself introduces an amount here suggesting that there would be huge costs involved in this law. If the Minister calls on the initiators to be careful, I would also call on the Minister to be careful, including, for example, the documents he has just mentioned in his own department and the department of OCW. He's talking about the huge amount of time it takes to add metadata to those kind of pieces. I assume that with the current archiving those metadata will be added as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u89	No, that's not the case. It was also assumed in the first period that the obligation already rests on public authorities to establish such a register. However, that is not right. According to the Archive Act, data must of course be stored, but this does not have to be in the form of such a register. In the first period, moreover, I also found that I had not yet read that in the legislative proposal, namely that the Information Commissioner would cost 5 million in structural terms, which is more than the House costs for whistleblowers in structural terms. It is therefore significant amounts that are not covered in the legislative proposal. It has also been said that the creation of such a register might be possible for the purchase of new material free of charge. I do not expect that because that material will serve a different purpose, but I would certainly wish for an independent judgment on it. In any case, it is not only the cost of purchasing the hardware but also the cost of managing the register, including documents in the register, making the documents accessible and checking against the exceptions in the Open Government Act. Those are all costs that should be budgeted. I would then like to say a few words about the BIT test, also because a motion has been passed on it. The opinion of the Chamber itself following the report of the Elias Commission was that there should be a mandatory start test for projects of more than EUR 5 million with an important ICT component. If there were a budget, I think it would exceed that amount and there will have to be a BIT test at some point. However, I would like to point out that the Bureau carrying out the BIT test can only check a plan with a budget against the criteria of feasibility. Neither the government nor the BIT is able to carry out such a test if there is no budget. Actually, my objections lie even more upstream of carrying out such a BIT test, because they are already at the stage of setting up the bill as it is on the table here. I would also like to express my thanks for the willingness shown by the Chamber to deal in the short term with the issue of abuse, on which, I believe, there is broad agreement that this should be reduced. This is also dealt with in the legislative proposal before us. If that is adopted, it will eventually replace the Public Administration Act. There is therefore no objection to repairing that Public Administration Act on this point and at the same time treating this bill, if it is adopted here, in the Upper Chamber. A number of questions have been asked to me. I have already answered the question about the Montesquieu Institute in the first place. I have the impression that this is a different system from what is now before us. I'd like to separate that from that. Mr Bruins' question was answered by the initiators. I'd like to join in on that. I just saw Mr Sjoerdsma flapping with a black-painted text. I understand the objections that people sometimes have when, in their opinion, too much is being blackmailed by administrative bodies, but that in itself this law does not change. Whether the assessment is correct of what is and is not covered by the disclosure exceptions is an issue in itself. I understand very well that this is a serious matter, but of course that remains the case, whether you make that information available to the left or to the right. I would like to leave the opinion on the fourth letter of amendment to the Chamber. The amendments are a little complicated here and there, because I believe that these amendments do not in themselves remove the fundamental objections I have just raised. This may make the opinion on these amendments more complex, but I am inclined to leave the opinion on all the amendments to the Chamber in principle, with the remark that, even if they were adopted, those two objections would still remain. That applies to the amendment on item No. 22 on the serious damage and on the amendment to item No. 23 on the scope. I have already said in the first term that I think it is important that a law that focuses on administrative bodies should also focus on the administration and on the government, and that it should not be able to focus on private institutions or healthcare sectors through an AMvB. They do not have the apparatus to meet this and are not, strictly speaking, an administrative body. I also leave the opinion to the Court on the amendments to the documents. I would like to point out, however, that, even if the amendment on item No. 24, 25 and 26 was adopted, I would like to point out that this is also the case when the amendment on item No. 24, 25 and 26 is adopted. 26 would be adopted and it would be decided in four years' time to introduce an information commissioner, and I think we should be strict in the area of finance. After all, a legal basis is being created for it, so you should now have an idea of how it will be covered in due course. This is, moreover, more a comment on the amendment. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. The same goes for the amendment on item No. 28. I would like to point out that, as I see it, the definition of personal policy concepts used in this amendment for the information provided to individual Members of Parliament is slightly different from those used in the rest of the law. Anyway, that's how she is. That's up to the Chamber itself. I'm here to talk about the motions. I'll pass judgment on the Veldman c.s. motion. in piece No. 29 and the motion-Veldman c.s. in piece No. 30 to the Chamber, with the comments I have just made on the BIT test. I would like to see Mr Sjoerdsma's motion on item No. 31 as it logically results from his intention to adopt this law. In any case, if a law is passed, then of course it is important to ensure that everyone is sufficiently informed about its implementation. That goes without saying. However, since this motion anticipates the adoption of the initiative proposal and I do not recommend that it be adopted, I have no choice but to vote in favour of the motion. 31 dissuade. The same applies to the motion in part No. 32 because it also anticipates experimenting on a register which is not covered by the law. I'm closing up. I'm sorry I had to make some critical comments. I hope I'm not wasting my right to a T-shirt from the open government action group. On other occasions, however, we can do a lot with each other on open dates and other important policy areas in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u90	I thank the Minister and, of course, the initiators. Thanks to them, we were able to keep this second term. The votes are due on Tuesday.
