ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	I say to Members that I know that it is election time and that interruptions are allowed, but that they can keep it brief and concise. We've had a little bit of experience with that in the last few weeks. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Merkies of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the Autumn note, the Minister still has a gap of EUR 1 billion in 2016. That is an amount that will be presented as under-exhaustment at the end of this year. To what extent is that realistic? It is not officially sent, but the question is to what extent it is done to get the books closed. There was already a huge under-exhaustment for 2016 of 900 million and now it appears that there is much under-exhaustment, especially on the Infrastructure Fund. Is that a coincidence? Where did these underexhaustments come from? What is most striking in the Autumn note is the windfall of EUR 4.3 billion. I read in the newspaper today the headline "4.3 billion more." That was about something quite different, namely about Google, which locks 4.3 billion euros more through the Netherlands on its way to tax havens, but 4.3 billion euros is a great windfall. It's mainly the tax authorities, and that's good news. I wonder why people find out so late in the year. Of course, you can say that the Tax Administration is only now coming up with these figures, but with me the question remains whether the Tax Administration has had any idea about this before then. I wonder if the Tax Administration is already seeing a trend in tax returns earlier in the year. Indeed, the Navy Note states that companies asked more often than in previous years for a provisional tax assessment in order to avoid having to pay tax interest at a later date. This leads to a significant increase in revenue for 2015 in the first half of 2016 compared to revenue for the same period last year. It would appear that this information on increased income is actually much longer than it was published in the Autumn Note. Can the Minister confirm that? A large part of the windfall is therefore due to higher revenues. Why can't the Minister now indicate which part of that windfall is structural? Why does the Minister choose to allow a large part of the windfall to come to the relief of the sovereign debt? A lot of economists and various organisations such as the IMF and the OECD argue that a country like the Netherlands should give an impetus to the economy. The OECD proposes to distinguish between public investment and more consumer expenditure and suggests that the Stability Pact should be set up in Europe in such a way that investment no longer counts in the assessment of public expenditure. I recently told the minister that and he said something like "the SP sees everything as an investment." Apart from the fact that that is not entirely true, that is also a bit of avoiding the question. I understand that there may be a discussion about what is consumer and what is an investment, but the question is, of course, whether he wants to think about it. There are, of course, sufficient examples where there is no discussion at all as to whether it is an investment. Take the whole energy transition, isolating houses and buildings. These are investments that will reduce the energy bill in the future and also reduce the environmental burden, bearing in mind the run-up to fossil fuels. The interest rate has never been so low. For companies that would be a reason to invest, because in the long term you get some in return, but the government prefers to put it in an old sock, because that's what it really is. Also the marking of additional public spending as gifts is too easy, even if these are in the consumer atmosphere. After all, despite careful recovery, we still have a period of underutilisation. A spending impulse is still needed, and that is what many say with me. The Minister is concerned about public debt, but I think we should be more concerned about private debt. I have tried to put this more prominently on the agenda in recent years, including last year's autumn note, but I often feel like walking up against a wall. The Minister said earlier that the problem would more or less be solved if the housing market attracted, because then the homeowners would no longer be underwater. However, I continue to believe that the problem of debt is being dealt with too easily. Think for example of the many tenants who can no longer pay their rent because they have seen the rent rise enormously. Some of them end up on the street and become homeless. The CBS calculated earlier this year that the number of homeless in the Netherlands has increased by 74% in six years. That's frightening. But these cold figures don't really come to life until these people get a face. In the television programme Guilty, for example, that shows how people struggle with debt, or the program The Amsterdam Project, about homeless people in Amsterdam. I should also like to congratulate you on these programmes. In six years we see an increase of 74% in the number of homeless people. The industry association Federation Opvang has expressed its concerns about the blockage of the shelter. And this as winter dawns: today, to be exact. That is why I would like to make a proposal for an investment. And now I hear the Minister thinking: you see, now the SP already finds spending money on tackling the homeless problem an investment. Yes, I do, and I'll explain that. I'd like to take the minister back to ten years ago, to the year 2006. That was before the time we said the municipalities had to solve everything, and it wasn't our problem. There was then an ambitious national action plan to tackle the homeless problem, together with the large municipalities. It would first happen in the large municipalities and later elsewhere in the Netherlands. It cost 175 million and it was a great success. In a few years the nuisance in large cities had decreased by 65%. Drug use was halfway through. In 2011, the VWS Ministry had a cost-benefit analysis of the homeless shelter and what turned out to be? It is simply the case in this cost-benefit analysis: on the basis of the available data, it is estimated that 1 euro of commitment to social care will yield benefits in the order of about 2 euros. The cost of homelessness seems to be quite high, and it was concluded that shelter is better and cheaper than people living on the streets. Unfortunately, things were different. The crisis came, there was a lot of savings. Municipalities got incredibly much on their plate and there were also cuts in homeless shelters. What began as a great success, ended as a drama. I just mentioned all the numbers. We now have a windfall of EUR 4.3 billion. I could have rolled out big plans on how to spend that entire EUR 4.3 billion, but my question today is a little more modest. We are talking about the Year's Note, it is the end of the year, and my proposal is to set aside 50 million for social care in the large municipalities. I will table an amendment to that effect. Of course, more is needed to tackle homelessness, but this is intended to give an impetus, just as we had the ambition ten years ago to give an impetus to the large municipalities and to work together. There'll be a discussion about cover soon. It is very easy for a minister to say that he likes something, but that the coverage is not right or that municipalities should do it. So I'm actually asking the Minister if he just wants to think with me. Here is a way: where there is a will, there is a way. Think about the moment we wanted to buy that painting for 80 million. Within no time we had that 80 million available, because the minister wanted to think along. Why? Because we all said it was important. Today I say: tackling the problem of homeless people is also important. Where there's a will, there's a way. It is about money; not only for the shelter, but also for the support of the homeless. The Netherlands is a rich country. We've got a 4.3 billion windfall. If this is what we want and if the Minister wants, will he think along with me so that this can be done? If this is what we want, it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	With these fine words, Mr Merkies concluded his contribution on the Najaarsnota. I call Mr Harbers of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Before I come to a number of questions about the Autumn note, I want to start with news that we have heard many times in recent weeks: the Netherlands is doing well economically. The economy is growing even harder than we began to get used to; more than in the spring and also more than in the General Financial Reviews. This is reflected in public finances. There are now nice, uplifting figures every week. And fair is fair, until recently we did not expect the government deficit to be eliminated even before the end of this cabinet period. Yet that is the case. Next year, for the first time in nine years, there will be a budget balance, so no budget deficit. This year the deficit still ends at 0.5%, while a year ago 1.1% was expected. At the start of this reign in 2012, even 1.4% was predicted. Unemployment has fallen significantly compared to the peak in 2014. Wages are slowly rising and purchasing power is increasing. All prospects for next year's economy have recently improved and been revised upwards. I say right away that not all people feel that way. An increase in consumer confidence will not help you if you are in a zero-hour contract and have two children studying. You don't care about a budget surplus if you're not sure if your pension will stay up to date next year. A third of the people feel that they have deteriorated this year and that next year will be the same. I will come back to how we can respond to these more important concerns. First, I would like to point out that, now that the government is no longer red every year for the first time, this almost traditionally leads to calls for more money to be spent on everything. This is not just happening here and there in politics. I saw some amendments coming along.... but recently, for example, VNO-NCW did so. It wants a next cabinet to invest tens of billions, while business itself is holding its own. The IMF and the European Commission very much wanted the Netherlands and Germany to save Italy by spending more. I'm glad the Minister didn't give in to that. Contrary to the people whose sounds are like this, I have not forgotten that we have come out of one of the biggest and longest crises of the last century. Budgetary balance and a rapidly falling public debt are both an important buffer for when it ever runs counter again. This can happen in a few years, for example, if the Brexit takes place, or if world trade is going to suffer from increasing protectionism. A budget where the government does not spend more than it enters provides the basis on which we can make life better for more and more people in the country, including those who do not yet know it, step by step; not only in the statistics and in the news, but also in their home. How does that work? As a result of the well-functioning economy, unemployment is finally beginning to fall sharply. This offers the people who are still on the sidelines the prospect of getting their jobs back in the years to come. The first signs of inflation and an increase in interest rates mean a little less pressure for pension payments, although we will not know exactly where pension funds are until the end of the year. But the most important thing is that a government that gets enough to make the necessary expenses doesn't need to borrow anymore, which means that the public debt is further reduced. In this way, there will be room for a substantial reduction in taxation in the coming period. After all, what the government does not need is not to be picked up from the inhabitants either. There is also room for necessary additional expenditure on defence, security and roads, if it is up to the VVD. These are all ways in which people will be able to see more of the revival in the coming years. It is the answer to everyday concerns, because you can feel it in your wallet when you get a job, with a better safety and the possibility to drive more often. Plans for other extra investments may sound fun, but I think the most important lesson of the past is that a government that spends too much tax money ultimately causes more problems than solves problems. Moreover, there is one thing we do not need to do, namely drive the economy forward. So you better save the buffers for worse times. I have a number of comments and questions to the Minister on the Autumn note. First of all, I want to thank him. In recent years, I have often made it a point that we had little insight into the budgetary changes that occurred after the second supplementary budget. In recent days I have seen a whole set of letters from various directors, from Finance itself, from V and J, from Defence and from I and M, on budgetary changes that have occurred after the second supplementary budgets which will be incorporated by final law. I think that's a good improvement. I thank the Minister for his efforts to improve the Court's understanding of this. The in=terminal also needs to be filled in for some EUR 1 billion, while major under-exhaustments have already been reported, some of which have already been taken into account. Is it realistic that it should be fully filled in in the annual financial report? This brings me to another point. In one of the answers to the written questions, the Minister states that there is a constant analysis of where under-exhaustment is taking place and whether it is multiannual or structural. We in the Chamber do not have that view or only very limited. Can the Minister share with the Chamber the results of this kind of underexhaustment analysis? Will the whole cabinet period also be looked back, for example, so that these analyses can also be helpful in drawing up plans for the next four years? This also applies to the fact that it is very necessary for the Court to have an insight into it when less money is needed for a particular social purpose. Then we can decide to spend it on better things. With the Infrastructure Fund, there is a major failure of EUR 500 million. In itself, we have seen more often that the cash flow of infrastructure expenditure is not quite equal to the annual limits. You're also a little dependent on the time when the road builder's bill comes in. However, it is a large amount. I assume that this money will be spent on the planned projects in the coming years. I'd like a confirmation from the cabinet. Another part of the failure is due to the fact that expenditure on infrastructure projects is lower than planned. That is very nice, but I assume that these funds can then be used for other parts of the infrastructure programme. Furthermore, a little back and forth is being put forward with the repayment of the contribution to the European Union of EUR 2.8 billion, the long-awaited discount that the Netherlands has negotiated. It is good that it has finally been possible to complete ratification in all 28 Member States, which now allows for repayment to the Netherlands, exactly three years after the current Multiannual Financial Framework of the EU has entered into force. I say that "three years" cynically. We are already looking ahead to the way in which this will have to be done in the next period, including the corresponding agreements. I can imagine that we are therefore proposing that agreements be made on the duration of ratification, because this three-year period was a very long one. That is good for those Member States that had to pay more and that might not be possible for a while, but it is quite acidic for countries that would get a huge amount of money back, like the Netherlands. Finally, I come to the European Commission's European tax proposals. I do that because this is the last financial debate of the year. Soon, before Christmas, the deadline for drawing yellow cards will run against it. One of the proposals is the Commission's proposal to address hybrid mismatches with third countries. We have already said that there is no impact assessment on the impact of this proposal. The House of Representatives has previously stated that such an impact assessment should be available. There is an indication that this proposal can directly affect at least 77 000 jobs in American companies. That's a hell of a number. The VVD does not want to create jobs in the Netherlands. The Netherlands and other Member States are going to tax profits that do not belong to them but belong to another country, in this case mostly in the US. The proposal runs counter to the principle that profits must be taxed wherever they are realised. The previous OECD report lays down the responsibility for eliminating the effects of hybrid mismatches on the country of origin. This will mainly concern American companies, for which the upcoming US President Trump has already announced that he wants to levy this tax himself. In short, it seems appropriate to wait for this first, also in view of that aspect in the OECD report. Moreover, there is also a lot of uncertainty about the way things are going after the Brexit. That is why we do not wish to support this proposal at the moment, and we believe it is important for Parliament to draw a yellow card against this proposal, especially at this time, just as we did before for the CCCTB. That is why I have already announced that I will be tabling a motion on this subject in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	This has already been discussed in previous debates. The VVD calls for a five-year delay, which is exactly what the lobby organisation AmCham has proposed. But as Mr Harbers also knows, the Chamber has said that it does not want to. The VVD was not in favour of this, but a majority of the Chamber did not want the Netherlands to plead for postponement. Then Mr Harbers agrees with me that the Minister and the Secretary of State must carry out that wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	I agree that the Minister and the Secretary of State must abide by what the Chamber has said. Mr Merkies rightly refers to a previous statement on this subject. I am concerned now that there is another possibility for us to do so. That's pulling a yellow card. The First Chamber spoke out in favour of this yesterday. In order not to nullify this effort of the First Chamber, it is important that we also make a ruling on this as a Second Chamber. I'll put that statement to the Chamber later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	That is, of course, Mr Harbers' right, but I do not think that, given the previous ruling, he will get a majority in favour of it. So he agrees with me that we should refrain from making that plea for a five-year delay, because a majority of the House has said that it does not want the Netherlands to propose this in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Merkies rightly says that a majority of the House is against it, but that does not mean that I have to agree with it. I would like to see this debate as an extreme attempt to see whether we can make that Dutch voice possible for a yellow card, for which other Member States are also needed. We'll see how the vote goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	I remember the last time the VVD campaigned with the slogan "working Netherlands earns lower taxes." That's one of those promises that didn't come true. We are now entering a phase of budgetary balance. I hear this finance minister saying we should start buffering. I hear the Prime Minister saying that now is not the time for relief, that we should hoard. What does the VVD say and what will the VVD promise to voters on 15 March? Lower taxes or buffer again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	Exactly what I just said. It is very good that we are now achieving a budget balance. If you do nothing now, you will also arrive at a budget surplus in the next period. A budget surplus is getting a little too crazy, because then you're going to raise more money than you need as a government, while the government debt is already falling. It is my aim to maintain a balance in the budget. This means that there will be money to be spent in the coming period. Then I have two goals. That's a tax cut. What the government doesn't need, you don't have to pick up. Furthermore, we need to be smart and see what else we need some money for. That seems to me to be the case with defence, security and also infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	If I now give a look at 2017, purchasing power will increase by 0.7% in 2017. It's even been adjusted downwards, from 1.1% to 0.7%. That means that all those working Dutch people who have made sure that there is now a windfall in the budget get a 0.7% increase in purchasing power from the VVD as a reward. So it goes from 2.8% to 0.7%. Is that what next year's VVD has in store for the people? Or do you say, no, given the current prognosis, we still have to work on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Van Dijck comes back to the first part of my speech. I do not think that the Navy's note, which shows that we finally have another year in which things are going better than expected, is a good reason to say: we must now, three days before Christmas, see how we can spend that money as quickly as possible. This year, there's just a shortage. Over the next few years, the perspective improves considerably. Next year there will still be an improvement in purchasing power, on top of the substantial increase in purchasing power that we already had this year because of the tax reduction. That leaves all the perspective to see what we can achieve together in the next cabinet period. A great deal of money will then be created to work on a tax reduction and on a number of other necessary expenditures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. The 2016 Autumn Note is the most positive Autumn Note in times. Meevaller is becoming a windfall, especially in tax revenues. That is, by the way, a windfall for the State and not for those who pay. Unemployment is falling. The budget deficit is falling and debt is falling. I congratulate the Minister of Finance for that. It proudly recently explained the figures in a film, with himself in the leading role. Like a real Herman de Screernman, he showed his good grades. The Minister indicated that there was room for investment, but that choices had to be made. Making choices does not only apply to investments. I liked it very much that the VVD just mentioned three themes that were also mentioned in 2012, but which apparently, like Security and Justice, only experienced austerity and in 2017 need to invest again. However, we still missed a few things. One of the first things we missed is what happened to the marginal burden. This is the graph of the hardworking Dutchman, who earns between €20,000 and €75,000 in income. In 2017, €20,000 is the minimum wage in the Netherlands. Back in the day, for this cabinet, you paid 42% marginal. Now you're paying 46%. So that's 46% for someone with a minimum wage. He earns €100 extra by overtime. I can hand it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	No, it doesn't work that way, Mr. Omtzigt. You give it to the messenger and then it is distributed and made available for inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	That's what I'm talking about. Can the Minister call me another country where someone who earns the minimum wage in the Netherlands is getting €20,000 and €100 extra because, for example, he spent a day working overtime, has to pay €46 tax? For someone with a modal income, which is around €37.000, that was 42%, and with the reduction of tax rebates that has become 49% and a little bit. That's seven whole percentage tax increase marginal. That goes on up to €56,000. Then there is a small tax cut, I admit that. And then the rate has been raised again, because the top rate has not become 52%, but 55.6% for incomes between €65.000 and €103.000. This is the effect of leveling. So I have two clear questions. Call me what the marginal rate is in the surrounding countries if you earn the minimum wage. That's 46% in the Netherlands now. And what's that if you earn a morale salary? This is now €37,000 in the Netherlands. That's hardworking Holland. Hardworking Netherlands has felt it. We could also have made a graph of the huge gap between single-earners and two-earners. I am a little counting on the colleagues from the Christian Union and the SGP for that. We could also have made a graph of the costs of the departure scheme at the Tax Administration that got out of hand. When did Minister Dijsselbloem hear this, by the way? This was also not very good in the last Spring note and Autumn note. When did he know half a billion dollars were thrown away here? We could also have made a small graph of the reduction in the turnover of the pump holders in the border area, which were affected by the increase in excise duties. Or a graph showing the huge risks that still exist due to the very large potential claim to the Netherlands Bank via TARGET2. There was a euro crisis. This meant that the Dutch central bank owed more than 100 billion. That slowly declined until 2014, until those claims were around zero. Then came draghinomics, which means that by extending the buy-in programme there will soon be EUR 2,500 billion of government documents in the system of the European Central Bank. This means that there is a claim of EUR 100 billion for the Dutch Bank and other central banks. The Minister writes that nothing is going on, as long as everyone stays in the euro. But what happens to this claim when a country steps out of the euro? That is a serious question to Minister Dijsselbloem. I also have a little graph on the fileswaart. My colleague from the VVD just said there's 500 billion... Oh, no, it's 500 million. I was just at the large amounts in the context of the euro. There is 500 million under-utilisation in the Infrastructure Fund, with under-planning. That means not even enough plans are being made. My colleague Van Helvert can make plans every day and every night for new N-roads and A-roads. Filzewaart increased by 21% last year. It's going up by another 8% this year. This is the graph where working Netherlands suffers from. For this purpose, the investments in roads were meant, the investments that were not there. However, it is campaign time and we understand that the Minister of Finance has a positive message. It might be campaign time for us, too, so we'll show you the other half of the story. At the end of the cabinet period it is important to learn lessons. When the crisis was at a low point, deficits got bigger and bigger. They got bigger than expected. We believe that this also has to do with the burden increases. Does the Minister recognise that they were perhaps a little too high at first, which meant that we got a little too much into a yo-yo policy? I must compliment the Minister that he does not think just before the elections: you know what, we play va-banque and we give all this away. There is now a balanced Navy note which is not said at once: here you have a whole series of presents, in the hope that you will remember this on 15 March. The ECB did give the financial world a Christmas present. The buy-back programme will continue, even after March 2017. Another EUR 540 billion is involved. So it now amounts to EUR 2,500 billion. That while the U.S. is doing the opposite. That's where the Fed raises interest and the buy-back program is cut. Inflation is picking up. It is 1.3% in 2017 and 1.6% in 2018. That's not extreme, but it's not that extreme that you need buy-back programs for that. This kind of buy-in does lead to extremely low interest rates and bubbles in house prices. If bubbles snap, we're gonna have to deal with them later. I would like to thank the government for its response to my own initiative paper on the impact of ECB policy on pensions. We hope to have an interesting debate on this shortly. But I would like to say two things about this. According to the Minister, the ECB buy-back policy does not reduce interest rates. But why would you do it if the risks are huge and the interest rate won't be lower? We had calculated that the costs for pension funds were about EUR 220 billion. The damage to Dutch pension funds is therefore EUR 220 billion. On that amount, we have seen no denial and no confirmation from the Minister of Finance. Would he like to indicate the extent of the damage he thinks is caused by this buy-back program? Speaking of pensions, in the General Financial Reviews, which were held at the end of September and early October, the Minister denied that the ABP premium increase for civil servants would be between 1 billion and 2 billion. Now it's nicely smeared and it's half a billion and next year it's still a piece. Why did the Minister deny it? Didn't he know that then? I just talked about infra. That money stays on the shelf. There are unsafe roads. I am thinking of the N36, where every year fatal accidents happen because the road is too narrow. Every year, no one can find a few million to make that road a meter wider. I'm also thinking of the file nodes on the A1. Everyone knows where these traffic jams are in their own environment. The number of traffic jams has increased slightly due to a better economy. Then you always have a bit more traffic jams, but percentages like 20% and 8% are also just about underinvestment. In other years, the underexhaustment was much lower. In 2015, the under-exhaustment was 193 million, in 2014 1 million, which was very handsome................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The annex states in very small letters that too few plans had been made. So we are talking about under-planning. Underplanning. Underplanning? Right now? With the current bottlenecks in the road network? It shouldn't get weirder. How's this gonna be fixed? Because this puts people in traffic too long? At Security and Justice, we're seeing a setback. The proceeds of the fines did not increase by 100 million, but we had also expected a slightly greater windfall because of the significantly lower asylum influx. Of course, costs have been incurred for planning the possible asylum influx which has made buildings ready, but that influx did not occur. Why is that, exactly? Does the Minister think the Ministry of Security and Justice is finally getting off her red card? I agree with the story of the VVD about hybrid mismatches. I'm closing up. There is still a great deal to do in our country. I have mentioned the examples: congestion, sole earners and precarious jobs. Job growth is, the CPB wrote, namely in temporary work and not in permanent work. This is painful for the PvdA, because it is unique for the Netherlands that this is mainly about the growth of temporary jobs. I hope that there will also be work on the growth of permanent jobs. This can be done by tackling the WWZ and by bringing back the two years of pay in case of illness, but well: the cabinet leaves that to a next cabinet. There are still very serious risks when it comes to our financial system, such as the over-indebtedness the SP pointed out, and the excessive imbalance in the system of the European central banks. It is up to us to tackle these problems and make choices for a better Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	I call Mr Nijboer, who has neither paper nor charts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. I liked those graphs, but from that distance, I couldn't read them very well. We must continue with this innovation, in such a way that we can get graphs all the way along; perhaps on a screen. I will not interfere with that, because I still have to get a little from Mr Omtzigt's input. He had so many compliments and such a positive story! I was not used to that from him, but it fits the figures we are discussing today. The autumn note simply shows that public finances are healthy, that they are in good shape and that the economy is in good shape. All signals are green. Investment is increasing. Purchasing power is increasing. The number of jobs is increasing, by 100,000 this year and is expected to increase by more than 100,000 jobs next year. It often starts with flexible jobs, I say to Mr Omtzigt, but it has become more and more permanent jobs lately. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is strongly in favour of this. Unemployment is falling, much more than anticipated. A few months ago we looked at the medium-term forecasts of the CPB. Then unemployment was a flat line and did not take it away. Now you can see that unemployment is falling by tens of thousands a quarter. Even among older people, unemployment is falling, although there are still far too many older people without jobs. I would like to comment on three things. What did we do with the economy that is getting better? What does that lay the foundation for? As regards the PvdA for an investment agenda for the public sector and an investment agenda for the Netherlands. The question is whether this Autumn note contributes to this. The third issue concerns the financial sector. What did we do when it was economically better than planned at the beginning of the cabinet period? We started with substantial cuts, which all parties in parliament, except the PVV, agreed to. In the 2012 elections, the SP also foreseen that cuts were needed. These were necessary after the financial crisis. Difficult measures have been taken. There has also been an additional package. Much has been discussed, but in the end there was broad support in both chambers. That has laid the foundations for an economy that then grew faster than we thought. Last year we saw that the economy was going a little better, but that the number of jobs was lagging behind and that unemployment was still too high. After many conversations, many debates, and many letters, we finally came to a package of fiscal measures that should primarily boost employment and purchasing power this year. We must note that this has been achieved. Of course, it is not only the 5 billion for low incomes and middle income that has created additional jobs and increased purchasing power, but it has helped to reduce unemployment so rapidly. Last year an additional 1 billion was also allocated to beneficiaries and older people, in order to increase their purchasing power. Last spring, when the Spring Paper was discussed, it became clear that the economic situation was somewhat better than expected and that expenditure on, for example, unemployment benefits and care was not that bad. Then the coalition, including the PvdA and the VVD, proposed to invest 400 million more in healthcare. It may also be that the cabinet proposed this at the request of the coalition, and I want to get rid of that. It has also been proposed to invest 200 million extra in education, to make 300 million available for defence and to invest 300 million more in security and justice. In the autumn, when the purchasing power decision showed that there was even more room for manoeuvre in the budget, there was a purchasing power package of more than one billion for older people and benefit recipients. There has been 150 million for security and justice and 100 million has been made structurally available to give children the opportunity to exercise, use cultural facilities and take school trips. I think it is very important that the latter has been there as well. In his first term, Mr Merkies spoke about poverty and talked about homeless people. But poverty among children is also of concern to Mr Merkies. All this has been done in addition to the budgetary commitments we made at the beginning of the cabinet period. Now 25 million has been made available for Zeeland in the Autumn Note last week. Mr Dijkgraaf has been very keen on this lately, but also my colleague Albert de Vries and many others in the Chamber. When people's wages in the public sector threatened to come under pressure, additional money has come to compensate for the pension premium increase that was foreseen. In short, many additional investments in the public sector have been made within the scope of responsible fiscal policy. Mr President, I come to my second point, but only after you have given Mr Dijkgraaf the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	Coincidentally, it's true. I call Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr Nijboer was just talking about 25 million for Zeeland, but he also knows that, in the wording of the letter, this is not extra money. Actually, it says it comes from existing jars. It's also not set aside for Zeeland. Or is my interpretation a wrong one now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	I read the letter we received last week. A proposal has been made by the Balkenende Committee. 25 million is requested for investments in Zeeland. The cabinet is going to make them available, provided there are good plans. That seems to me to be a good criterion. You shouldn't make that money available if nothing happens to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	Could it be that this discussion has already taken place in the Committee on Economic Affairs on agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	It's not about agriculture. It's about the whole economy of Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	I was present when the claim was filed in Nieuwspoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	It's already started with the General Reviews. We discussed this in the Committee on Economic Affairs. There are now amendments to this Navy note. I could possibly withdraw one of the two if the wording that Mr Nijboer is referring to is actually the same. I saw the Minister of Finance nodding for a while. Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that we would like to hear from the Finance Minister that the amount of 25 million is really separate for Zeeland? Provided there are good plans; that's always the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	Sure. I come to my second point. The basis has been laid for investment in the public sector. Mr Harbers, on behalf of the VVD, already outlined the priorities of the VVD: relief, defence, security and infrastructure. You will not be surprised that the PvdA has other priorities: investing in the public sector and increasing employment in public jobs, for people who, despite economic growth, find it difficult to get a job. I would also like to mention investments in health care and the elimination of one's own risk. There are many choices to be made by a forthcoming cabinet, for which we have now laid the foundations. But even now, in the final months of the missionary cabinet, steps can be taken to push investment further. That can be done on two points. First of all, the PvdA has been advocating the creation of an investment bank for years. In the last budget, the cabinet has also embraced this. The PvdA Group is asking the cabinet to speed this up. Make this work in the coming months and do not engage in endless discussion with different parties in the polder about the conditions, the design and the corrupt governance. You can be sweet with that for years, but this has not helped SMEs, who are still shy about credit, and that has not helped investment in a sustainable economy. Is the Minister prepared to do something about this? When will the House be able to see proposals for this? The second point has already been raised by previous speakers, the under-exhaustment. As a chamber budget, we make it available to the cabinet or agree to it. Then it's not good if half a billion dollars is unused. Investment is needed in rail, but also in good roads. How is it that these resources are not used for the first time? This does not solve the problems of the railways or congestion, nor is it good for jobs and for the people in construction. How is that possible? There's something else for me personally. As a Groninger, I took a look at what is going on there with the investment fund that Mr Alders has under his wing. There the underexhaustment is almost complete. A lot of money is spent on procedures, but there is no room for strengthening houses. That must be done at some point! Finally, my third main point. Following on from Mr Omtzigt, I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister, albeit on a different subject. He indicated that the rise of populism is partly due to the excesses in the financial sector. He saw this as one of the sources of the rise of extremist parties in Europe and the support for it. The PvdA Group fully supports this. History has shown that rising unemployment, declining purchasing power and uncertain prospects lead to more support for the flanks, more support also for those who seek a scapegoat and say: foreigners are to blame and we all have simple, factual solutions to this. You can see that at Trump in America, you almost saw it happen in Austria and you see it in many European discussions. We must not deny that the financial sector was the basis of the crisis we have experienced in recent years. It has also been a breeding ground for populism. When I opened The Financial Daily over the last few days, I saw Dutch bankers again arguing for longer buffer requirements in international discussions, while even America says that these requirements should be raised. Dutch bankers are back in the lead in technical discussions, with arguments such as: our mortgage weighing is too low and we should not increase that buffer, otherwise the credit will be locked up and we will kill the economy. When I see that, I wonder whether they have learned nothing at all. The PvdA Group is a strong supporter of a sound financial sector, but it only works when the buffers are sufficiently large and when the shareholders themselves are on the blisters. As long as the sector opposes higher buffer requirements and the principle that the person investing in a bank must also bear the risks, not the taxpayer, the sector is not in order. As long as people are hiding behind technical discussions and solutions, there may be a good deal in the fact that mortgages are paid more quickly in the Netherlands and as long as they do not recognize the basis, they fall back into the old culture and only look at the return for the shareholder and not at the social interest, that sector is far from in order. However, that should be the sector. Does the Minister recognise that it is not a question of participating in these technical discussions, but that the main objective must be to achieve higher buffers and a healthier culture? Does he recognize that everything else is but a distraction from it? As long as the main objective is not recognised by the financial sector summit, even in the Netherlands, there is still a long way to go for a healthy sector. Finally. This is the latest budget debate............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We can see that, if you look at the rise in employment, it can, of course, always be even better if you look at the decline in unemployment and the expected public finances for next year, which will have a budgetary balance, fiscal policy, but also economic policy, has been successful. To this end, a compliment, also on behalf of the PvdA Group, who, as Social Democrats, value responsible public finances and keeping public finances healthy, so that public services can be paid in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Chairman. This Minister of Finance had only one objective and that was to put public finances in order. I gotta say, that worked. But you shouldn't ask how. The motto was: not willingly, than unwillingly, but that budgetary balance will be achieved. However, this was at the expense of 350,000 jobs. It was at the expense of 40 billion in prosperity. It was at the expense of 200,000 people who lost their jobs in the past period and 35,000 companies that closed their doors. Moreover, house prices have fallen by 20%. So the price was high and the sacrifices were great. It was a mess. When we look back at the ruins of five years of Purple, we see that the care of the elderly was dismantled, the own risk for many people became priceless, the mortgage interest deduction was cut, the pension system went on the shovel, the AOW age was raised hugely, the fire protection was stripped, the rents skyrocketed, the income levelled and the taxes went through the roof. The Netherlands had to go. Even the student funding had to believe it. The people are angry, and rightly so, because the Netherlands will never be the same after five years of Purple. The economy is now recovering, but not thanks to but despite this cabinet. The fact that this cabinet has aggravated the crisis and misguided procyclical policies is well known, but that this minister is now trying to claim the recovery as his merit, we call that in normal Dutch marvellous. Anyway, I don't want to spoil the party. That is why I shall now speak about the Navy's note. We see in the Autumn note a great windfall of nearly 8 billion in tax revenues. 8 billion in tax revenue! How can you explain this? What part of this windfall is incidental? How much lower tax revenues does this windfall lead to in later years? It is striking, however, that this windfall has just occurred in the year when the burden has been further reduced by 5 billion. Would there be a link between lower burdens and more economic growth and additional jobs, resulting in tax revenues? This is something the PVV has been advocating for years. That must be an eye-opener for this minister. You lower taxes, you boost the economy and you get extra jobs and eventually more tax revenues than the reduction you've given. That's the Laffer effect. Check it out, Minister. Unfortunately, we see that in 2017 purchasing power will go back to zero, 0.7%. And again, everything is being skimmed by this minister. He even wants to hoard. Nothing lower than that. First we cut the economy down and now we hoard the economy down. He hasn't learned anything, and from next year we'll be standing still again. Then there's unemployment. According to the CPB, unemployment is falling below 500,000. Well, that's good news, of course. That's where we came from in 2008. However, I do wonder how the CPB can talk about 500,000 unemployed, while there are 450,000 people in the WW and 450,000 people in the assistance. 900,000 people have a job-seeking benefit, but only half of them are regarded as unemployed. I am not even talking about job seekers without benefits, the nuggets, the non-contributorys, or the older unemployed with an IOW or an IOAW, or the hidden unemployed who only work a few hours a week as a social worker or as a flex worker. These people don't count in the unemployment figures. My question to the Minister is therefore: how many people are really out of work in the Netherlands? Is that 500,000 or more than a million? I'm getting to purchasing power. It is better in the Netherlands, but the citizens do not notice it. After eight years of squatting, they're back on the level of 2008. They're back to square one. Citizens have been standing still for 15 years. Their prosperity has stopped. Their income stopped. It's a disgrace. The government's been skimming more and more. We can see this in terms of the collective burden: it rises from 36% in 2010 to 40% in 2021. So the government is taking an increasing share of the cake and also benefits business, but the citizens have checked it out. Next year we will see the purchasing power shrivel again. Is the minister gonna fix this? By the way, in the forecast up to 2021, we see purchasing power at zero, or at -0,1, -0,2. In other words, until 2021, citizens in this country do not have to rely on any recovery in purchasing power, while the Netherlands is longing for lower taxes and more purchasing power. Why should people not benefit from economic recovery? After 15 years of standstill, it's their turn now. My next point is about Europe. Last week we saw another episode in the Greek drama. Greece has now borrowed 270 billion from the euro area countries. I repeat, 270 billion. The Eurogroup wanted to give the Greeks 45 billion in relief, as I read in the Greek newspaper. A gift from Henk and Ingrid: 45 billion in relief for Greece. And what did the Greeks do last week? They gave a Christmas bonus of 617 million to pensioners. They want to distribute 617 million of our money to pensioners in Greece for a nice, warm, soft Christmas. They don't have the booty in or they're already handing out, against all the arrangements. How did this end? I would like to know that from the President of the Eurogroup. Is the Minister finally convinced that you should not and cannot make agreements with such countries? Take the tax debt. The Greeks raise taxes, but nobody pays. I read that the tax debt in Greece rose from 30 billion in 2009 to 95 billion in 2016. It is nice that the Greeks keep the agreement to increase VAT to 25%, but if no one pays it, that is of course not helpful. Take the Italians. The Italians stand ready with state aid for their banks, against all agreements. Nothing bail-in; just taxpayers' money. The trickbox is working overtime. I already predicted it. What is the value of these agreements in Europe? The minister plays Russian roulette with our prosperity. The Netherlands pays 8 billion to be a member of the European Union and now guarantees over 100 billion to weak countries and zombie banks. In addition, we guarantee the 2 500 billion that the ECB is running around. Not to mention TARGET2, which Mr Omtzigt mentioned. But this kamikaze policy is good news for our Finance Minister, because the interest he pays on the government debt in 2021 is half the interest he paid in 2012, which is only 5 billion. There is 5 billion in free money, but if the PVV asks for something to be done for the pensioners who have suffered from this low interest rate, then the minister does not give at home. The account of the buy-in program of those 2,500 billion will follow later. The minister's fine with it. After me the flood, I see him thinking. I've got a minute. So I can ask another question about a message that was in the newspaper last week and that shocked us somewhat. That message was about the anbi-status and the gift deduction. So, what's going on? An Islamic university cheats for 8.5 million with the donation deduction by issuing receipts for a multiple of the donations received. What about the research on those anbies and the gift deduction? Shouldn't that be ready by now? I feel like we're being set up in front of us. Nowadays, anything and anyone can opt for anbi-status. Then you're supposed to give it a gift that you can deduct from your taxes. You'll get your gifts back through the back door. So you've been avoiding taxes. How much tax revenue is the State going to miss because of this gift deduction? How will the Minister maintain or how will he prevent fraud through, for example, repair legislation? After all, I cannot imagine that it is allowed to make donations with cash money, which is difficult to control. So come up with emergency legislation or repair legislation, so that this can only be giraffe. At least you'll have something to prove it. Finally, I ask the Minister for an overview of all the anbi's in the Netherlands, because if an Islamic school can have an anbi-status, who can not have anbi-status? I'm afraid that's why we're missing a lot of taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. If it is right, this is the last time we will discuss a autumn note with this cabinet. Of course, I will have a number of questions to the cabinet later, but I would like to start by thinking about the fine picture that emerges from the note. Public finances are back on track. The EMU balance is approaching zero. The debt is falling even below 60% of GDP. The sustainability or long-term situation of public finances is also positive. Last week, the Central Planning Office came up with even better figures. In particular, unemployment is falling rapidly. That's just all good news. Yes, the next cabinet has a lot to do and still has enough to do, for example in terms of the labour market and the number of people on temporary contracts. I would also mention pensions, where there is still a threat of reductions and an unsustainable system, and high taxes on labour. Fortunately, there is budgetary scope to provide all these reforms with targeted investments and reliefs. The Minister deserves to be congratulated for that. They were not easy years or easy measures. Support was not always self-evident. Occasionally it has also beeped and cracked, but it has succeeded and that is good news for all of us. Without wishing to take that compliment off, I do have a question about the future. We are getting signals that the budgets still contain targets for 2018, 2019 and beyond, which have not yet been filled in. This applies, for example, to the UWV, but there is still a gap in the education budget for 2018-2020. I am not asking the Minister to fill all this out today. That is not yet necessary; it can be done in later budgets, but I would ask the Minister, for example by 1 March at the latest, to send an overview of targets which are still open for years after this cabinet period, so that he leaves a net picture for his successor. I'd like to get a reaction to that. That brings me to the Navy's note itself. The most striking thing is, of course, the EUR 4.3 billion windfall. On the one hand, this windfall is good news, because it is partly caused by economic weather. On the other hand, I find it worrying that this windfall becomes apparent only so late in the year and that the cabinet does not seem to know exactly which part of that windfall is due to the attracting economy and which part by the earlier imposition of provisional attacks. Or do companies now park money at the IRS because the interest rate at the bank is negative? That is where the companies have to pay money and then the tax authorities are a safe haven. That is why my first question. Can the Minister now, a few weeks after the Autumn note, give a better picture and a better breakdown of that windfall of EUR 4.3 billion? I would also like to hear why this windfall has come forward so late, because the period between the Millions note and the Autumn note is only short and 4.3 billion is, of course, a huge amount. Weren't there any signals before? Such a great windfall in such a short time does make me frown the eyebrows. The Minister is laughing now; I look forward to his answer. I would also like to talk to the Minister about the assignment. Almost EUR 1 billion is still open. That is, as it were, a gap in the budget. The Minister hopes that this money will be available before the end of the year. I think this is an extremely large amount, also compared to other years. There is now 1.4 billion in the Autumn note, which is also a huge amount, even compared to previous years, but still 1 billion is open. The Autumn note will of course come at the end of the year, namely before 1 December, and that is actually the time when under-exhaustment should already be clear. I think there are two things that can be done here, and both are disturbing as far as I am concerned. The first possibility is that all departments will spend the money from their budget. The EUR 1 billion will then not be available and we will see a major setback in the annual report in May. In that case, the cabinet has overbudgeted and that would be a bad thing. The second possibility is that EUR 1 billion will indeed be spent less in December. This was expected by the Cabinet in the Navy's Note. In that case, I will also be concerned, because if one month before the end of the year there is no view of the underexhaustment of nearly 1 billion still to come, what does this say about the quality of the estimates? How will the Minister reassure me on this point? Where's that underexhaustment? The minister's gonna be talking later, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u28	It's unusual, but the Minister can say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u29	He's gonna give it up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u30	He'll come back to it in his own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u31	Would it not be a good idea, for example, to agree that the deadline will in future be fully or at least 90% filled by the Autumn Note at the latest? Once again, 1 billion on 1 December is a large sum. Now that the budget is going well, all of this seems less important. But apart from the fact that budgetary discipline is also important or perhaps in good times, there is something else here. We have just finished the budgetary discussions; we voted on this on 5 December. The treatment of the Tax Plan has also been completed. Many amendments have been tabled which have often been dissuaded because the coverage would be inadequate. These are usually relatively small amounts and also occasional amounts. I am thinking of the AOW-hole of military forces, the Zeeland Fund, which Mr Dijkgraaf also referred to a moment ago, or the Beta College in Middelburg, on which we have tabled an amendment. But then everything is closed and can't be pushed. If suddenly at the end of the year it becomes clear that there is still a windfall of 4 billion on the revenue side and on the expenditure side there is another underexhaustment of 1 billion in the books, I once again frown my eyebrows. My colleagues in my group, who, at my friendly but urgent request, have all worked nicely to find cover for those amendments in the budgetary procedure, look at me a little angry. As a financial spokesman, you're the bitten dog after all. There is a windfall of 4 billion and an under-exhaustment of 1 billion; I have to find 4 million on that budget and I cannot do so. How's that? Does the Minister realize, and I am seriously asking, that the line of defence that there is no room is getting weaker in this way? How can the Court exercise its budgetary rights properly if the estimates are too broad in structural terms? Then we will be following the facts here on 21 December. Does the Minister intend to reflect extensively on this at the end of the year, just before Christmas? I have a number of questions about specific budgets. The first question relates to the proceeds of fines in which a EUR 100 million setback has been mentioned by Mr Omtzigt, who was also mentioned by the fact that radar equipment was updated for seven weeks and that there were too few traffic agents. And then the Minister of V and J initially forgot to mention this in his budget too. It is exemplary for the state of that department after six years of VVD at the helm, while it is not small money. I was just talking about amendments of 4 million and 8 million, but now suddenly, in the Autumn note, 100 million comes up on a total fine of less than 1 billion a year, and on a budget where, after heavy pressure from the Chamber last year, EUR 450 million has finally been added for 2017. The Ministry of Security and Justice must now deal with this setback in the fines itself. Does this mean that in 2017 another 100 million of those 150 million will go straight away? That is not the intention, of course. My second specific question concerns the budget for external trade and development cooperation. Foreign Trade and Development Co-operation has been pushed around with money in recent years. Much money for the future has been brought forward, but now some are being pushed back for the future. Can the Minister give an overview of this shift and what this means for the development cooperation budget in the years after 2017? I would also like to announce that my colleagues Van Veldhoven and Sjoerdsma are going to explain the amendment they have tabled, which is already on your table tonight, in the debate on Syria. It uses part of the windfall for reception in the region due to the less large asylum flow. My fellow Members will be discussing this with the Foreign Minister this evening. These are my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u32	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Schouten on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr. Chairman. At the end of the year, we traditionally hold the debate on the autumn note. I can imagine that this Minister has experienced more annoying debates. Indeed, in the picture of the Autumn note and the December estimate, we see a lot of beautiful things: the rapidly falling unemployment rate, the widespread growth rate, the almost closed output gap and a budget for next year that is almost in balance. Congratulations to this minister for that, though I would like to admit that several parties of this Chamber have been involved. For this year there is a budget survey of 4.3 billion. Mr Koolmees has already referred to this. That is good news, because this is also a sign that the economy has come in full swing. The income tax, VAT and income tax have been higher than estimated. This also means that this year there is almost a budget balance as well. Without there being more than half a half of natural gas revenue, we found it quite right, moreover, that we would even have ended in a positive way this year. But the purchasing power trend is still lagging behind the Cord and the Millions note. This is mainly due to rising inflation. In the debate on the Millions Note, I have already had a discussion with this Minister on purchasing power. I am referring in particular to the promise made by the government on Princess Day about purchasing power development. There was the news that everyone would improve. In the debate on the Millions Note, I indicated that this is quite a bold statement. At that time, we saw that, for example, care contributions could be higher than the contributions that the cabinet had calculated. Then the Minister said, "Wait and see, we don't know all these premiums yet." I have tabled a motion to ensure that the cabinet also keeps its promise. However, this motion was rejected and we waited. The final picture is that health care contributions across the board are indeed higher than the contributions that the cabinet has estimated. The care allowance automatically increases. So you can say that this works out well for the lowest incomes, but for a household with a moderate income, this doesn't offer that much relief anymore. After all, this does not have a health allowance. In fact, in recent years, the waste path of the care allowance has become increasingly steeper, making an ever smaller group eligible for this supplement. And that is exactly the group that fits in with that beautiful picture that Mr Omtzigt has just distributed: the group where the marginal pressure is enormous. Sometimes it is more than 100%, which I also indicated during the debate on the Tax Plan. When you say that everyone is improving, you also have to add butter to the fish. Hence this amendment, which aims to restore the healthcare allowance to the 2015 parameters, giving about 350 000 households the right to health care allowance. That's exactly the middle income group that doesn't really have it easy. The same applies to the amendment I tabled on child benefit. The group of earners is the group which is probably now going through the zero line due to the rise in care contributions. The single earners will therefore not have an increase in purchasing power but a decrease in purchasing power. We have made various proposals in the Tax Plan to see how we can meet this group. They have always been rejected, but I continue; I do not give up the courage. It is a somewhat unfocused measure, I admit, but through child benefit we can reach this group. I find it remarkable that the cabinet does pay for, for example, a child care allowance, saying that the families who make use of it will receive more compensation, but that families who want to make their own choices about how they organise work and care and who are not eligible for the child-related budget will be left in the cold. That is what we are opposed to, and that is why we want these families to comply with this amendment. Then I come to one last point on which I made a comment earlier on the issue of the Millions Note. That is the question I asked together with my colleagues Harbers and Nijboer on the broad analysis of the effects of long-term interest rates on government, the economy, households and the financial sector. We asked for a motion for a resolution, and that motion was also adopted in order, among other things, to be investigated by the Central Planning Bureau and the Netherlands Bank. What's going on with that? I think it is important that this analysis should be carried out before, for example, we go into a formation. That is information that can be very useful at that time. Can the Minister indicate if he can carry out that investigation at that time? If not, is he willing to put any pressure on that? I expect this analysis to provide interesting insights, which we will all be able to take into account in a new period of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u34	Finally, I should like to give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf of the Reformed Party for the contribution of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the Navy's note of good grades which he has sent us. The deficit's dropping. It's almost gone. Colleagues have already said it: a windfall of 4.3 billion, a decline in public debt and an increase in employment. I remember well the beginning of this cabinet period. When we carefully started these agreements, our common goal was to take responsibility for putting finances in order and making the Netherlands future-proof in the financial field. I think we can see that that part has certainly been successful. Are we there? No, there's still a lot of work to do. The burden on labour is far too high and the risks of entrepreneurs, certainly smaller entrepreneurs, to employ people are skyrocketing and lead to manyzzp'ers and few people in employment. We know the discussions about this. The pension system still needs to be reformed, there is not enough money for defence and security, families are having a hard time looking at purchasing power development and, as Mrs Schouten rightly pointed out, especially when you look at the earner group. I actually think that's the bitterest pill in this cabinet. Over and over again, proposals have been made by the Christian Union, the CDA and us, but in this respect the single-earners have been abandoned by this cabinet. We too will continue tirelessly to try to restore that historically made mistake not only by this cabinet but certainly also by previous Cabinets to ensure that we get a fair tax system, a system in which it does not matter what choices you make with regard to labour and care. We agree that care, voluntary work and care in the family are just as important as paid work and that people themselves should and can make that choice. There's a lot to do, but not by this cabinet anymore. We will support the Christian Union's amendments and also, with regard to family allowances, to help those families at least with the money that is now available. I have another technical question that has also been asked by other spokesmen. How does the Minister look at the 4.3 billion when it comes to the future? Is it structural? To what extent does he expect it to be structural? Honestly, my estimate would be that the 4.3 billion wouldn't stay entirely because there were developments in the basic path and the output gap is decreasing. I have one more point, and that is Zeeland, as the other spokesmen may have expected. We have had the Balkenende Committee and it was very clear: a lot has to be done in Zeeland and in Zeeland, but for a piece of it Zeeland also needs the support of the Empire. We have already brought this into the General Political Reviews and it also led to the widely supported Van der Staaij motion, but this has not so far led to a real budget from the cabinet. We were just having a discussion about this. The letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs of 14 December on DELTA states the following. "During the administrative consultations held on 8 December. I have expressed my positive basic position and my willingness to work as a coordinating minister to free up money within the existing possibilities in the order of €25 million to contribute to good projects within Zeeland. I am currently working, in consultation with the parties concerned, to further concreteise the various actions, looking at how we can use the already available European and national funding instruments and resources to implement the action programme." This does not sound like Mr Nijboer's wording: 25 million have been set aside and if there are good plans, they will be implemented. The Minister speaks of 'a positive basic attitude', and when a politician uses that expression, it gives me the creeps. The Minister also proposes to act as a coordinating minister. So this is not going through the budget of Economic Affairs, but the Minister of EZ coordinates this and has to see if he gets the money from others. The Minister also says "to make an effort" to release the money. So it hasn't been cleared. It's not there, it's an effort obligation. The Minister mentions an amount in "the order of €25 million." I'm sure it is, but it doesn't say exactly 25 million. The Minister is working on a "closer concretisation." So it could still go wrong on all sides. Finally, it must come from the already available European and national financial instruments and resources. We have no control over European funds at all. Is the money now separate or is it to come through the other financial instruments? Such a wording gives me a strong feeling that the message is the same as that Minister Kamp had already given during the general discussion, namely that there are all kinds of pots, that one can easily come up with plans and that he wants to help a little, but that Zeeland has to submit those plans himself and that, if they are good, it will succeed with the existing financial instruments. That's not putting 25 million apart for Zeeland. Because of this vague wording and also because of the fact that we are now talking about the 25 million, but that the original 44 million is missing the whole story about the beta college.... we felt that we should table two amendments, including two amendments which also cover that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u36	I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf that the cabinet and, in particular, Minister Kamp do not excel in carrying out motions in this area. When I hear the wordings in this letter, I believe that this could have been formulated a little more socially and generously. But as I read this letter, it is the intention of the cabinet to ensure that 25 million are made, provided that the plans are good. That is my question to the Minister: is this the explanation that the Chamber can give? If so, and if the Minister makes a firm commitment, does Mr Dijkgraaf agree with me that his amendment is actually superfluous on exactly the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u37	I very much hope that I can withdraw that amendment on the 25 million. I would be very pleased to do so, because I see a cabinet which, at least for that part, is working seriously on that broadly supported Van der Staaij motion. That support was wide-ranging throughout the Chamber and I regret that we have to attract this and that it is not easier for us to do so from the cabinet. That leaves the point of Beta College. That amendment remains because that is a separate point. But as far as the 25 million is concerned, I agree with Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u38	This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u39	This is still the debate on the 2016 Autumn Note. The Minister is now going to respond to the contribution of the Chamber of just now. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr. Chairman. The Autumn note is actually a progress report on fiscal policy, i.e. the current year. The figures are good and favourable, much better than expected. I would like to thank the Chamber for the positive comments that have been made. But before I'm accused of breast-knocking again, I put a great deal of credit to the Chamber for that. I have worked very closely with a wide range of groups. Almost all the groups supported the budget. I am very grateful to them for that. Probably because the figures are so good, the Chamber has gone on to mean anything that affects my policy and beyond. That is why my initial idea, to do my preparation in ten minutes, was not successful. Even now I do not have all the answers, because questions have been asked about everything. And then I am also called upon to answer all the questions at a furious pace and in a short and concise manner. Of course, I'm going to do my best to do that, but that challenge is a big one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u41	That's good!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you for the encouragement. Indeed, far-reaching measures have been taken in the budget, including in the context of increased burdens. We've looked back before, so I don't want to dwell on that for too long. Of the total package of measures, the burden increase has remained less than a third, but it has been substantial. Mr Omtzig asked, looking back, whether those burdens were not too great at the beginning, as he put it. This reminds me in particular of the package that preceded this cabinet: the so-called 'Kunduz package' between Rutte I and Rutte II, which was also supported by the CDA. That was a package of 12 billion at the bottom of the crisis. So that was rough. Of these, 9 billion were increased, including 4 billion in VAT increases. Let me remind you of this because it is important that everyone's responsibility is well invested, including in the history books. So it is true that there has been a great deal of burden increase. Certainly in that package, the emphasis was very strong on very heavy burdens. I'll continue with the questions about the windfall in today's tax receipts. Mr Van Dijck drew my attention once again to the Laffer effect. Indeed, part of the reduction in charges leads to an inestimable effect. Especially when it is well-focused, it is reflected in the economic effects. Of course, we take this into account in the estimation of tax revenues. But the Netherlands is a small and open economy, in which many factors play a role. So not all current windfalls are one-on-one due to the 5 billion in reliefs introduced by the cabinet this year. Further questions have been asked about the large tax payout reported in the Navy's note. Why didn't it get out so late? Didn't the minister know that before? My simple answer to that is: no, the Minister did not know that before. We need realization figures for this. On Prinsjesdag we know the results of the first six months. Now we have added the results of the third quarter. Looking at the whole picture, the new estimate for the whole year could be higher. That hasn't become known to me before. It's not new at all, but I understand the interest in it. I get that this question comes up now that the windfall is so high this time. The system is really the same. We really do not withhold information from the Chamber, should that be suggested. By the way, it is also known, I think, that the Vpb revenues are very volatile. One of the employees of the Ministry of Finance will also publish about this in ESB (Economic Statistical Reports) to show how volatile these Vpb revenues are. That makes windows difficult at that point anyway. Several members have asked which part of the windfall is structural. As I said, the 2016 Autumn Note, and so this windfall, is about 2016, not about 2017. The estimate shall be based on all figures up to the third quarter. The next update of the Cabinet's estimate for 2017 follows the Spring Paper 2017. We do this on the basis of the CEP (Central Economic Plan) 2017 of the Central Planning Bureau. So we have a first new estimate, including what the windfall in the revenue we see now is going to mean in structural terms. In other words, what part of it will we see again in 2017 and beyond?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u43	The Minister says we've only just got those figures. My question was not, however, whether he has just received it from the Tax Office. It's possible that the IRS will be here so late. I understand that this may be an indirect question to the Secretary of State. It is, of course, about the fact that the figures show that there was already a significant increase in revenue in the first half of the year, also in connection with the preliminary attacks that companies have requested earlier and more. Apparently, therefore, the figures are already known to the Tax Administration itself much earlier. Then why does it take so long for these realization figures to come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u44	Then Mr Merkies did not understand my answer correctly. We do this on the basis of realization figures. The results of this autumn, of the third quarter, are of course not known on Prinsjesdag. So they're just not here before. We can make an estimate for the whole year on the basis of the first quarter, but it would be extremely unreliable, so we do not. In the middle of the year, the Chamber will have a look at the current state of affairs. In the Autumn note we take the third quarter and therefore also the estimate for the whole year. There's a swing up there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u45	You could say that you want complete care and that's why you wait so long. But to be honest, the Tax Administration has seen revenue increase much earlier, hasn't it? That may be an estimate, but it's more known to the Tax Office. Or are the systems so out of order that the tax authorities don't see it until very late, so it's only after Princess Day? Can the tax authorities only then observe this trend?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u46	I don't know if I should take that question seriously. The word "fair" falls and the Tax Administration gets another sneer. We're just talking about the results of the third quarter. They won't be there until the end of the third quarter. As always, this is really a fixed systematique, then we come in the Autumn note with a new estimate for the whole year, in which we take the third quarter. It always is. That's not gonna change either. It has nothing to do with honesty or good or bad systems. It's about the realization. Time is moving on. As the year progresses, you have a better view. If we had to make an estimate for the whole year by mid-year, we would probably have been way off. That lucky guy would have come after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u47	The Minister continues his speech. By the way, as long as I allow questions, these are questions that receive a serious answer from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u48	Sure, I've answered that very seriously too. Mr Merkies asks why this tax co-evaller is going to pay off the public debt. That wording is actually not correct. We're still short this year. The windfall is in the balance and the deficit will therefore be smaller. Next year we even hope to achieve a balance. A smaller balance naturally contributes to lower public debt. However, my first priority is to balance the budget. That wording suggests that we do not really need the money and that we therefore put it in an old sock. I think that was the term Mr Merkies used literally. But, just to persecute the metaphor, as long as there's still a big hole in that old sock, the money doesn't accumulate in that. So we're still trying to close the hole in the sock. Then that's how it's gonna work. Having said that, the cabinet, in the framework of Princess Day and already in the current years, has, of course, allocated additional funds to different budgets. There is therefore additional expenditure and more burden reduction. At the same time, however, we are doing so when we are putting the budget in order. Of course, the budgetary rules are very helpful in this respect. Mr Merkies came back to the statement that investment should not count in the assessment in Europe. There is a so-called investment clause within the European budget rules. They allow some flexibility for investment. But that is really done in a clause, so under strict conditions. For example, a country must perform significantly below its potential. The output gap, indicating how much higher a country's potential growth should be, thus indicating how far a country is off its economic strength, should be at least -1.5%. So you really shouldn't get your potential. However, this is not the case in the Netherlands. The Dutch economy is running well. The output gap is slightly positive, unemployment is currently falling substantially and growth is continuing at 2.1%, according to the Central Planning Bureau. Is there no need for investment? Oh, yeah. But the government always invests in education, in research, in infrastructure. The government invests very much and continuously. If you want to make other choices, if you want to use the space that arises over the next few years, for example because you have to pay less benefits, to invest more, then we are each other's allies. That's also what the Cabinet does where possible. Then the in=terminal. We allow departments to transfer funds towards the end of the year, with a certain margin, to the next year. In addition, we sometimes allow cash slides. All this leads to a heavier burden on the expenditure framework in the following year. There is more pressure on this expenditure framework, which should cover all expenditure together. To compensate for this pressure, we also put an in=terminal in the books. That means that we actually agree that there should be a similar amount of under-exhaustment at the end of the next year. It'll cancel each other year, year after year. That's the in=terminal. It is a big one this year, but it has also been largely eliminated. It was about 2.5 billion, of which 1.6 billion has now been filled in. So now we have 0.9 billion left. Is that realistic, is that feasible? I think so. I say in all honesty: it's big. But given the state and development of the economy, I think it should be realistic and feasible. Is it justified to do so only with a financial report? Yeah, we always allow that. Again, the proportions are of course different per year. Sometimes we have filled in a very large part of the year running, so until the autumn note, but there are also other examples. I have included a nice bar diagram in the written answers. This shows that there are years in which, in the annual financial report, that is, in the spring, we still have a very large proportion of the total mandate, sometimes more than half of the total. That affair isn't going to happen this time. We now have to fill in 0.9 billion of the total of about 2.5 billion. Are the estimates wrong? In Mr Koolmees' speech, it was not really right or right. That was complicated. We look at the estimates every spring. We make a round in the early spring along all departments. Then the tiles are lifted for a while, then the situation will be checked. One of the things we're looking at is whether the estimates are good. If there has been a great deal of under-exhaustment, we also want to know whether this under-exhaustment is structural and what is causing it. Are you guys blowing air in the estimates to build a spare? If so, we'll pierce it. Sometimes there are also occasional, very explainable reasons why the estimate was not made in a given year. It could still be a good estimate for the coming year. We make such corrections to the estimates every year in the spring round in preparation for the Prinsjesdag pieces. We will do that again in March. Then I come to the specific under-exhaustment of the Infrastructure Fund. Mr Omtzigt showed on the basis of a graph how the traffic jams are increasing again. This indeed has a lot to do with economic recovery, but sometimes also with road works and very often also with accidents. Does it have to do with much less investment? I don't believe that. For a long time, we are at a very high level of investment in infrastructure. A number of years ago there was a peak, but in fact we have been at around 7 to 8 billion in infrastructure a year for a very long time. Why is there no money left? Of course, that's always painful. After all, we all want to build, build, build and then money stays behind. Is there not enough planned? No, there's always overprogramming. The policy at I and M is to plan and program much more than is actually within the budget. Why? That is because there is always a great deal of delay. Fortunately, in recent years money has also been saved on infrastructure procurement. During the past cabinet period, 717 kilometres of new lanes have been built. That also shows that a lot is being built. Many new roads and projects have also been planned for the coming period. The autonomous delay is often simply in planning procedures. That explains why you sometimes don't spend the maximum in a given year. That then moves on to the next year and then is just spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u49	Firstly, the Minister says that there is overprogramming this year, but in the Autumn note he writes that there is underprogramming. I would like to clarify whether there is a sufficient programme. Secondly, the Minister says that there is such a push-through every year. I've mentioned the slipover from the past few years. It was between 1 million and 193 million, but the transfer was not 500 million in recent years. Thirdly, can the Minister indicate as a percentage of gross domestic product what has been the cost of and investment in roads over the last five years? He may also give that information a second term. He's acting like it's increasing, but it's decreasing. Fourthly...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u50	That's a little smuggling, isn't it? You ask four questions in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u51	Yeah, that's a little smuggling. Fourthly, if the economy attracts a bit, it is quite normal that the number of traffic jams should increase slightly. That's from all times. If growth is 2% or 3%, traffic jams increase by 4% to 5%. However, the number of traffic jams increased by 20% last year and by 8% this year. That is much more than you can expect from economic growth. Does the Minister share my view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u52	I believe that this debate should take place with the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. Of course, I don't have all that data ready. When I look at the Infrastructure Fund as Minister of Finance, I see that it is a fairly constant line. Apart from the one-time peak that was in it, it was pretty constant at 7 to 8 billion. Mr Omtzigt then asked about the money spent on roads as a percentage of GDP. He says that I can also answer that question in the second term. I'm fine with it. Mr Omtzigt will receive that answer in the second term if we can generate it. But if he wants to have this kind of debate, I really have to refer him to the Minister of I and M. It is responsible for the construction of roads. I have indicated that we are spending a lot of money on it and that many new roads have been built. There has indeed been no money left unspent. That has to do with autonomous factors. These are large construction projects that are sometimes accelerated and sometimes slower. If you look at the past few years, you can see that the finances are much better under control and that there is even money left in procurement. One of the members asked for that too. That money too remains available in the Infrastructure Fund. That will be spent in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u53	I have not yet received an answer as to whether there was underprogramming or overprogramming. Were there enough plans for this year? The Navy note says that there was underprogramming, but the Minister now says that there was overprogramming. I'd like to know how much under or over programming there was. The Minister says I have to ask the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. I agree. That is why I asked yesterday for the Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment to be present at the meeting. A number of Members of Parliament said that the Minister of Finance could do the same and that he could prepare the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment for that. She's the only other minister I would have wanted here. So these questions are not unexpected. The Minister of Finance could have prepared himself for that, because colleagues also indicated that we would be discussing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u54	I am not going to have a whole debate here about the Infrastructure Fund. Then we suspend now and bring in the Minister of I and M; I don't care. But I'm not gonna talk about infrastructure in so much detail here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u55	With all due respect, ministers are not making any order proposals here. I propose that we first look at what the Minister can say on this particular point in the second term. It's got to work with a little bit of wringing. If things really don't work out well, then we can always turn your request into a point of order, Mr Omtzigt. Shall we do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u56	I'm just waiting for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u57	Fine! Well, here's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr Omtzigt asked a question about overprogramming. My information is that there is a structural overprogramming in the Infrastructure Fund. This year, however, the total amount of programme spending has not been achieved. It's called under-exhaustment, but there's structural over-programming. That money's in the Infra Fund. We will try to answer the question of road investment expenditure as a percentage of GDP in the second term. Mr Omtzigt asked four questions, but before I grabbed my pen, I missed one or two more. My associates may have heard those questions. We'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u59	It was about moving forward and traffic jams versus economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u60	Those are really things the Finance Minister doesn't know about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u61	We have an arrangement. Mr Omtzigt announced yesterday that he wanted to ask about infrastructure and the environment. We leave it to the cabinet to let the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment be present. That was explicitly supported by the Chamber. I didn't have to, if the Minister of Finance can answer it to some degree of precision. If we pronounce and agree as Chambers, then it is not appropriate for the Minister to complain twice that the questions are too detailed. I am not in favour of calling on the Minister for Infrastructure at all, but I supported Mr Omtzigt. His questions need to be answered neatly in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u62	I'll hear about it. Otherwise, we will bring the Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment here. She can explain it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u63	I would ask the Minister to do what we have just agreed. That's what he's gonna do. He will answer as many questions as possible in the second term. I say to my fellow Members: you can make and, if necessary, adopt any order proposal at that time, but I would point out that the agenda of the Chamber is under great pressure and that this will lead to all kinds of delays. You make that assessment, but we will do so only after the Minister has tried to answer the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u64	If the Minister continues to insist that the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment should be here, we will not block it. We asked for that yesterday. We have indicated that it may be the Minister, but also the Secretary of State. Mr Harbers pointed out that some Infrastructure and Environment officials were also taking part in the preparatory work. We have asked the questions that lived in that regard. The underexhaustment does not seem to me to be entirely illogical, but I think the Minister's sneer is too low. That arrangement should have been known to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u65	It's been noted. We are waiting for the Minister of Finance to answer the questions properly in the second term. Then we'll see. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u66	I can answer all the questions relating to the implementation of budgetary policy. No problem at all. I will do so with more precision in the second term, but if it becomes a discussion about the explanation of why traffic jams occur, then I keep saying that the Chamber is at the wrong place with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u67	I would like to emphasise what Mr Nijboer said. We, as a Chamber, made this very clear yesterday. It's up to the Cabinet who sends it to the Chamber. The Minister for Finance states that he cannot answer the questions in question and that the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment must do so, but that was precisely the request of the Chamber yesterday. I do not think that the government's answer at this stage can be that the debate is currently with the Minister of Finance and that this kind of question cannot therefore be answered. The Chamber has made that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u68	I would suggest that the Minister continue his speech now and that we wait and see what happens in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u69	I've had questions about anbi's and the gift deduction. Also asked if repair legislation is needed and if I can give an overview of all anbi's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u70	I believe that Mr Harbers has another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u71	The Minister went straight from the under-exhaustment to the under-exhaustment of Infrastructure and the Environment, but I had asked questions about the Ministry's analysis of under-exhaustment. The Minister indicated that this happens every year in the spring. My question was whether this type of analysis could be shared with the Chamber. Will we also look back at how it has been for the entire cabinet period when it comes to under-exhaustment and learn from it for the next four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u72	We report on the underexhaustment, with a statement. It also states whether it is occasional or structural and whether the estimate should be adjusted in the ordinary budgetary cycle. I am prepared to say that if there really is a greater under-exhaust, we in Finance will not only indicate that there is one, but will also answer the question of whether it is structural and whether there was an estimation problem. That is the best way because otherwise we will be pulling out the budget items separately in parallel with the ordinary accounts. I think it would be better, if there is a considerable under-exhaustment, to indicate from now on whether this under-exhaustment is structural, whether the estimate was incorrect, whether the estimate should be adjusted and so on. Then there is the second point: looking back over the whole four-year period. Maybe I can come back to that in the second term? I just need to see if this makes any sense. Allow me to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u73	We now come to the public interest institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u74	There are currently 43,000 public utility institutions. The overview is available. That was one of the questions: can an overview be provided? Well, that can be found on the website of the Tax Administration. At present, there are evaluation studies on the reduction of donations and on the regulation of the anbi's and the SBI's. Now you're going to ask me what that abbreviation stands for, but I don't know about the sbbi. These evaluation studies will be sent to the Chamber at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u75	Sbbi represents social interest-oriented institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u76	Please. So these investigations will come to the Chamber at the beginning of next year. The total budget for the grant deduction is 360 million. We are now evaluating both the donation deduction and the anbi- and sbbi-scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u77	I know there's a list of all those anbi's, but what I'm interested in is whether some anbi's are collecting more gifts than other anbi's. I am asking that because of last week's report on that Islamic school. That just happened to come up. Perhaps there is something structural about all these schools, churches, mosques and so on, in the sense that a certain group is engaged in tax evasion, because that is what we can call it by giving so-called gifts and getting receipts that are not in line with the gift given. I'm talking about fraud. Hence my request for repair legislation. For example, you could only accept giraffe money, for which bank statements are necessary. So not: hand in cash, I gave 10,000 euros in cash. That is just the question. Maybe there'll be laundering. It's all speculative, but I'd like to get more insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u78	Targeted research is done on the basis of data analysis. This case has emerged because a remarkably large number of people suddenly took advantage of the donation deduction for this institution. That was the reason to do the investigation. It is, therefore, being monitored. I have to come back later on to the point of grail money only. I don't know in detail how that's done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u79	This is also a bit out of the subject of the Autumn note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u80	I'm afraid to say that again. Mr Merkies asked about the homeless shelter. He believes that this will require a $50 million boost. I cannot say it from him, but it is the case: this is the responsibility of the municipalities, mostly designed in a regional context, with centres that take the lead in it. There is intensive cooperation with corporations, health insurance companies, providers and client organisations. It may be that finance is an obstacle, but today or tomorrow the Secretary of State of the United States of America will send you a letter on this subject, containing figures on homelessness and the way in which it is addressed. I'd like to advise the Chamber, based on that letter, to see if there's more to it and if so, what. Moreover, in a recent debate in the Chamber, the Secretary of State of the United States of America has already indicated that the number of homeless people 'users of shelter' seems to be stabilising in recent years. Nor are there any indications, my information, that municipalities lack money in this area, also in view of the first reports of under-exhaustment in the social domain within municipal finances. So there are resources that could be used for this in the current year, if it were a problem. I might be able to deal with Zeeland better on the basis of the amendments, otherwise I will have to do it twice. Mr Omtzigt asked about the ABP premium. I would have denied that it was going to rise. I can't read that back now, but on the basis of the time, I couldn't know what the ABP premium would be and how much it would increase. I do know that there were very large amounts of money mentioned at the time. I should like to read the report of the debate, but I have probably been told by Mr Omtzigt that these large sums have not been paid, and I have said that I cannot say anything about it, because the premium has not been fixed and has not yet been fixed. In the meantime, the premium has been fixed and goes up in steps, but that did not happen until the end of November. Mr Van Dijck asked questions about unemployment rates. He said that the number of benefits is higher than the number of unemployed. The CBS comes to its unemployment figures according to international definitions through a monthly survey among the population. That figure may therefore differ from the actual number of unemployed. In addition, of course, there are also differences between the number of unemployed and the number of people receiving benefits. Not everyone with a benefit is also registered as a job seeker. Those figures are therefore based on a survey carried out by the CBS. That too has been the fixed system for a number of years. On the one hand, the V and J budgets have a setback on the revenue from fines and on the other hand a windfall due to a lower influx of asylum. Mr. Ommzigt asked if V and J are getting off the red card now that the higher influx didn't occur. Lowering the asylum influx estimate running this year There are just fewer people coming to the Netherlands.. leads to a reduction in the ODA allocation. ODA, the Minister of OS, pays the first year of reception of asylum seekers on the budget of BH/OS. The impact of the lower asylum inflow on the budget of V and J is, on balance, zero. The overall impact on the budget of BH/OS is 460 million, of which 290 million this year and 170 million next year. The setback at V and J comes, as was also noted, from disappointing fine receipts. In the autumn of 2015, we already made agreements with V and J, which also received the red card for this purpose, on the re-establishment of the control function, i.e. financial and administrative management within the large department of V and J. The ownership of the implementation organisations has been re-established, so that there is also more control over financial management. V and J have been working on that. We have already discussed the fines with V and J at an early stage and repeatedly. V and J have set up a club of people to take measures there, so that those fine revenues go up and to quickly solve the technical problems that have arisen. In line with the budgetary system, the Ministry of V and J will now have to find cover for the 100 million downfall in spring. We will then see which coverage options are available. Mr Koolmees is concerned that some of the extra 450 million will soon be gone. He knows the budgetary system. That 450 million has been entered in the budget for specific purposes and may also be spent on them, but there is still a task to be completed in the total budget. This setback on the fines in 2016 will be taken to 2017. You can't say it's one at the expense of the other or it's deducted from the 450 million. The budget for V and J is, of course, much larger than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u81	I don't quite understand what that "take" means. Does that mean that the 100 million that will not be made this year will have to be collected by the police next year with additional fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u82	No, that's okay. If there is any money left, it may, within certain limits, be taken to the next year. This also applies when a deficit has been achieved, in this case with regard to fines. This can no longer be achieved in the current year. We wouldn't want that either, because then a lot of fines would suddenly have to be issued. However, it is a setback in the budget and it must be compensated. This can be done by means of windfalls elsewhere, that can be done by means of measures, but we always look at this in spring in the total budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u83	Will this 100 million be charged exclusively from the currently very tight budget of V and J, or will it be distributed across all departments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u84	No, we maintain the system that every minister is responsible for budgetary management in his department. This is a setback in the department of V and J and will in principle also have to be solved; there has to be cover for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u85	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u86	Then we have here an announcement of an additional cut in police and justice of 100 million in 2017. I'm kind of getting mugged by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u87	That seems to me to be a point that you can make in your second term. Mr. Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u88	I think Mr Omtzigt's observation is correct. A motion was also adopted in the Chamber to separate fines, so that they are not charged to the budget of V and J. This is also in order to avoid the perverse incentive that suddenly more fines would have to be collected to cover deficits. When will this new set-up of fines start?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u89	I support the fact that the Chamber has received the ibo on traffic enforcement and traffic fines. In the cabinet response, we answered this question and said that it will take place from 2017. However, this is a setback for 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u90	So, to sum up, the setback for 2016 is being pushed forward to 2017 and has to be resolved within the budget of V and J. So next year, 100 million has to be found within the budget of V and J. At the same time, in 2017 the new system will be changed that fines will no longer be charged to specific V and J, i.e. over 2017 and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u91	That's right. In the future, this will be done on the basis of a motion from the VVD and the Labour Party to ensure budgetary calm at V and J. Over the past few years, we have had to devote a great deal of time and attention to V and J, partly because cuts were desirable or not wanted, but partly because financial management was problematic. One of the factors that keeps coming back to V and J is: on the one hand, there are sometimes very bad luck, for example, due to large fines imposed on companies in connection with fraud, but on the other hand, in recent years, the fines have caused major setbacks, for a variety of reasons. There is also that aspect of that perverse stimulus. Shouldn't you just let the enforcers, the prosecutors, the police and so on, act in autonomy, on the basis of enforcement policy and not with financial pressure behind it? For that complex of reasons, we want to create budgetary peace at V and J and we want to take out the perverse stimulus we now propose, at least that was Zijlstra's and Samsom's proposal to bring in the risks associated with the fine revenue for general account, read the Minister of Finance. Moreover, this can only work if there is genuinely a substantive traffic enforcement policy in the future. That's what we wrote to the Chamber. Otherwise, it will be impossible for us to estimate what is about to come down on traffic and then it will be very difficult for the Minister of Finance. Before the ANP says again that the police will be cut: that is not true, of course. On the total of the budget for V and J, we will see in the spring which windfalls there are and which setbacks. That applies to all budgets. That is what we are trying to solve first within the budgets, by department. If there is still a problem, it will be looked at in the cabinet in general. So it is not the case that the police are now being cut, as Mr Omtzigt announces. That's just pertinently not right. So maybe ANP can take that off the telex again. I'm joining the National Investment Bank. I'm working on that, along with my colleagues Camp and Ploumen. We hope to conclude this in the very near future. This is an important tool for detaching investment, mainly private investment, but the government can sometimes help with this, for example when it comes to start-ups in SMEs, to technological companies that want to grow and to a major transition involving new technology, such as the energy transition. That is also at international level. This will thus be an important tool of government to bring the economy and economic growth to a higher level. We are really bringing that to the Chamber in the short term. Mr Nijboer asked about the importance of high buffers, of strong capital requirements for banks. I don't think I need to confirm that that's very important to me. There is a debate in Europe about capital requirements. That debate is actually taking place in Basel, in the international committee. There are two things going on. There is rightly concern about the quality of the internal models of banks. My view is that minimum standards and quality requirements should really be set so that we can rely on them. It's called "a floor" in the risk model of banks. Then, of course, it is the question of which floor and which minimum risk weights are real. The Dutch mortgage portfolio, that of the Dutch banks, simply has relatively little risk. This has to do with our culture, with our legal system and with the way in which we allow people to settle debts. This means that there is simply very neat and well repaid on mortgages in the Netherlands and that there are very few risks in it. The Netherlands wants the Dutch Bank to represent us in those discussions............................................................................................................................................................ Along these two lines, the Netherlands is in there. The Dutch Bank represents us, but there is no outcome at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u92	We've had this discussion before, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u93	That's why I'm asking you to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u94	It can be very short. You could also say: if that risk is lower in the Netherlands, it could also be in those standard models. You don't have to fall back on the banks' own risk models at all. After all, we know that banks always assess the risks very low and sometimes unjustly. You can just make sure those standard models are equipped with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u95	The name says it all: "a standard model" is a standard. This makes little distinction between mortgage portfolios in the Netherlands and in other countries. These are international standards. Sometimes there can be a very good reason for this.I am therefore not against internal models to give a different risk weight to mortgage portfolios in the Netherlands than in another country. If Mr Merkies says "it just needs to be fully standardised; no more internal models," that would lead to a very large shift. I'm not against high capital requirements. Where there are more risks in bank balance sheets and where those risks are not reflected in risk weighting based on an internal model, requirements need to be raised. However, a standardised approach would be very detrimental in this case, and wrongly, because the risks are low for Dutch banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u96	So the demand is not even standardisation anymore. It's just to set a minimum, at least to indicate that you shouldn't be much lower. This is exactly what we have all argued for here, isn't it? Of course, we can also say: then we only do that leverage ratio. That leverage ratio we have actually set up as a bone agent in order to say: at least we have something. However, the risk-weighted model shows that it does not work. That's where we actually see that there's too low an estimate because of those own risk models. If you want to make the system better, you have to make sure that we don't rest entirely on those own risk models, because banks can sometimes magic with numbers. This has sometimes happened in the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u97	I can only repeat what I said: on the one hand, quality standards should be laid down in these internal models, which are called floors, so that the banks have less freedom to give risks too low a risk weight and thus come under buffer requirements. On the other hand, you want the floors and thus the risk weights to give a real picture of the risks in portfolios. I am not here to say that even if a portfolio has a low risk, it must be subject to a huge capital requirement. That's just not targeted, not effective. You want capital requirements to be high where the risks are high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u98	For the sake of clarity, we share that view, and we also want these buffers to go up and the risks to be weighed where they actually occur, but does the government have any idea what the consequences will be if the rules are discussed? What does that mean, for example, for mortgage lending in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u99	No, you can't, because that discussion is still moving. So I don't know where we're gonna get out of. This is the first step; this is Basel. There are proposals, but they are not yet legislation. They must then be enshrined in legislation in the US, Japan and Europe. Even if the outcome for the Netherlands were unfavourable in Basel, we can of course once again argue in European legislation that there should be a real assessment of the risks in mortgage portfolios. I can't figure that out right now, because I don't know what the outcome will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u100	I don't need to know to the point and the comma what the exact amount is. The point is that there could be consequences that could become stronger in the Netherlands, in this case on the issue of mortgages. If I understand correctly, the Minister says that he still has so many options and other options to travel another route that the risk will not be so great that this will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u101	Now Mrs Schouten wants to hear a prediction from me. The commitment of the Netherlands.... the Netherlands Bank represents us in the Basel Committee.. is to arrive at a real risk assessment of the mortgage portfolios, including the Dutch mortgage portfolios. I will not repeat it, but that is our real commitment. Know, however, that the outcome of Basel is not immediately a law. There will therefore be a European implementation path, but the Dutch Bank is well placed to do so with my full support. We'll keep the Chamber informed. The next meeting is in January. If there is a result, we will inform the Chamber, including about the follow-up. There's not much I can say about Italian banks. One bank's rescue plan attracts a lot of attention. The Members of Parliament can read about this every day. Not all messages become true after that. Based on the new European rules, the instrument of preventive recapitalisation exists. This should only be used if a bank would fail in a stress test based on the gloomy scenario, so it would fail before the exam, but would still survive in an ordinary scenario. Banks located in that zone may therefore receive preventive recapitalisation, including with the involvement of governments, but only after bail-in has taken place by shareholders and junior bondholders. In Italy, there is a problem with those junior debtors, because in Italy, many of these bank bonds have been sold to retail customers in the past, to ordinary citizens, such as pensioners who subsequently converted their pension into bank bonds. So if you put a bail-in on that, it creates a big social problem. This can then be compensated. That is the type of solution that we are looking for, but the European rules are very clear: only in certain circumstances can preventive recapitalisation be possible, but only after bail-in has taken place and on the basis of a restructuring plan. We are therefore waiting to see what will happen in this particular case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u102	It is clear that it has started again. 350 billion in bad loans on the Italian banks' balance sheets means that the Italian authorities must do something and that the entire banking union with this minister's bail-in is being called into question. I read in the documents that the junior bondholders are saved up to €100,000, just like the savers, in order to save those small bondholders. These kind of trick boxes are being pulled open, which means that this minister's hard line is actually no longer worth anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u103	This is a view and not a question. If it's a question, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u104	So isn't it true that junior bondholders are kept out of the wind for up to €100,000? This minister now says that every bondholder, every shareholder, of all the Italian banks, is hit in that deep bail-in up to 8%. That is what this minister says, and if he does not, he will quit as President of the Eurogroup. Can I conclude something like that? Every time the Minister says, "It's not like that." He says every time: they're hard deals. And every time there's blackmail, fines aren't given, and no one cares about the rules. Here are my witnesses, whether it's about the SGP or whatever. This Minister must now say that in Italy there is the same bail-in as in Cyprus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u105	There is nowhere the same bail-in, because it is viewed on a case-by-case basis by bank. Mr Van Dijck has read things in "the documents." I don't know what pieces. He will not have found this in the documents of the Dutch government. We do not yet know what will eventually happen to these banks. It is up to the European Commission, in particular DG COMP, to monitor State aid, to ensure that European rules are complied with in this situation. It is not a resolution, so it does not end up with the Resolution Authority. The bank isn't bankrupt. Those rules make things possible in situations like this, but also impossible. That is my attitude and that is my message to the Commission about every bank case that occurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u106	What about the question about the resignation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u107	Am I willing to resign?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u108	That question has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u109	No, I'm not resigning. I am trying to have a serious debate, but that is not easy. Mr Van Dijck says that the Greeks give themselves a Christmas bonus. He's asking how this turned out. The Greek Government intends to allow a one-off increase of, say, the AOW for pensioners. In any case, this is not in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The agreement is that if we want to make certain additional expenditure or change policies, we always have to consult with the institutions. What is the test for the European institutions to see if the Greeks are on the right track with the budget and the budgetary path, and whether the agreed balance will be reached this year, next year and the following year? If additional expenditure is to be incurred, it must be shown that it is possible and that the balance path will still be reached. This would be a one-time extra benefit. It is therefore necessary to show that this year's budget space is available for this purpose. It has not been said that the Greek Government should do nothing more or not spend any more. It must show in advance that there is more room and that it is achieving its budgetary objectives. And then she can indicate that she wants to spend that extra space on a one-off increase in the AOW. We have made that clear. That's the message to the Greeks and that's how it's got to go. We await the opinion of the institutions on this; they are looking at it now. Mr Harbers pointed out that the Dutch rebate on EU payments was only made after three years; that is a fair observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u110	About Greece: I have to read that in the newspaper too. I read that debt relief is linked to that Christmas bonus. The President of the Eurogroup would have said that there is no debt relief as long as that Christmas bonus is still in the air. I don't know if this is right. I'm just reading this in the paper. Another thing is this. I happen to know someone who can read Greek. He saw that the Greek newspapers were full of texts on debt relief of 45 billion. It would be a 45 billion Brussels gift. Is it true that this debt relief from before the summer that has now been implemented amounts to 45 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u111	I have to come back to that in second place. We have decided in this month's eurogroup on a small package of debt relief measures. It is a question of looking within the emergency fund's mandate to see if, for example, it is possible to borrow more cheaply. The interest rate is low, and whether, through the restructuring of loans, the rate of repayment can be reduced and the repayment of all loans goes to the 32 years. ESM may take such measures. Of course, it has a net present value. Indeed, if you make it cheaper or you make the maturity for some loans a little longer, it has an advantage; in economic terms, "a net present value." This is the first time I've heard this number, so I have no idea where this came from. I don't read Greek myself. I come to the link between debt relief measures and what is happening in Greece. Those debt relief measures should be approved by the Executive Board of ESM. Some Member States have put their finger on that and said that they want to know first what is happening with this one-off AOW bonus, why it has not been agreed and it has not been done properly. Only then will we give the green light. Technically, that clutch wasn't there. It was not created in the eurogroup either. But Member States are all members of the ESM administration. They have the right to say that they want that point clarified before the debt relief measures come into force. So we are trying to clarify this now and then take a further step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u112	The Minister continues. But here's what I'm saying about planning. You are not yet ready to discuss the amendments. You still have a lot of substantive points. We'll move on soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u113	I am going to try to be in the discussion of the amendments within half an hour. That of the payments has indeed taken three years. This has to do with the need for all parliaments to ratify the own resources decision in all Member States. The last Member State, I think, is Romania. The Minister of Romania called me personally because I had been behind her, of course, figuratively, asking for the decision on the ratification of its Parliament's own resources decision. She put pressure on that, and eventually it's settled and she called me. But it's just been way too long. I can't change the system. I believe that the Dutch Parliament also attaches great importance to ratifying the own resources decision. If all parliaments say that this will no longer be necessary, it will be much faster. Since we want to establish national parliaments and keep them involved, we have to accept that some national procedures are long. Mr Omtzig asked about the ECB's own initiative paper. We'll talk about that later. In view of the time, I would say that this could be discussed in the debate on the whole of the ECB's policy. Maybe one comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u114	Yeah, one. I'll take one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u115	No, perhaps I should not do that at all, because then I will provoke another reaction from Mr Omtzigt and we will still have a monetary debate. So I'm going to try to skip all monetary matters now. We can have the debate on this at the beginning of next year. Then we have plenty of time for that. See if I'm allowed to. Mrs Schouten asked about the investigation of the CPB and DNB. This will be linked to the publications CPB Risk Reporting Financial Markets and the Financial Stability Overview of the DNB. Both are planned for spring and can therefore be available at the time of the cabinet formation. Then yellow card procedures. No, I mean specifically the proposal for a directive on hybrid mismatches.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr. Omtzigt, in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u117	I had asked two questions and, indeed, the rest of the discussion can be discussed later. Will the Minister now or later respond to our calculations that the buy-back policy can cost up to EUR 200 billion to a pension fund if it reduces interest rates by 1%? Does the Minister really believe that the ECB buy-back policy does not reduce interest rates? Then why would you still do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u118	That's what we're going to have the debate on. It's two-and-a-half, but then I'm just gonna answer all the questions. If we have not answered a question in the own-initiative paper or in relation to the statement of the damage to pension funds, then I will say that we will return to that in writing. Then we add a letter to the more comprehensive answer. Then we'll have that complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u119	I have just been informed that this afternoon's own-initiative paper will be on the agenda of the committee's procedural meeting and that a reaction from the cabinet will be forthcoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u120	It's already there, but this isn't in the reaction. I can live very well with this commitment, because I understand that you do not want that debate. So if inside, say a month can be a response to that amount or to the question of how the government does estimate that damage, then I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u121	We will then add that reaction in a separate letter. Then the hybrid mismatches. It's called ATAD 2. Mr. ATAD, chairman, I know how much you love English abbreviations, which stands for Anti Tax Avoidance Directive, i.e. the anti-tax avoidance regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u122	I am not so fond of explaining abbreviations, but I am always trying to ensure that the public gallery can still find the debate somewhat interesting. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u123	In short, Mr President, this is about combating tax avoidance. We have achieved a great deal in this respect under the Dutch Presidency. A whole package of measures has been adopted. In addition, we have taken steps towards a blacklist, with the exchange of information, when it comes to rulings between tax administrations, the disclosure of country-by-country reporting et cetera. It's all on the move. There's a lot going on, but this is one too. This is one that's gonna hit the Netherlands. This particularly affects American companies that use the CV-e.g. route to avoid tax via the Netherlands. These taxes then accumulate on tropical islands, whereas a large part of them should be paid in the US itself. The new administration in the US has announced that they are going to take this priority, which means that left or right, or because the Americans are sooner or because ATAD 2 would come sooner, the CV-e.g. construction and its use by American multinationals will really disappear. It is possible that companies will then restructure their structure and activities. I cannot rule out that this is going to cost jobs in the Netherlands, but it is going too fast, because the Netherlands also has many other good location factors. In Brussels there is a discussion on ATAD 2. We have asked for a slightly longer implementation period for this reason, because it simply has an impact in the Netherlands and also because we believe that the real solution, as the OECD has said, should come from an adjustment in the US tax system. Because it is expected, it would be our preference to let the Americans lead the way. A motion was then adopted which states that it should not take too long. So I didn't repeat 2024 in Ecofin. I did say that I am asking for a longer transitional period. This was not discussed in the Ecofin debate. Nor has the President proposed a compromise, because there was now another discussion about certain English interests, the city traders who would also have to deal with hybrids. So there was one more point in substance, and as a result the President shut down the entire discussion. Hopefully it will come back soon and then we can also discuss the issue of the implementation period and then not whether we are going to do it. The Netherlands is gonna do it. It's going downhill. It's inevitable. The only question is how quickly that must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u124	This is a lot of money. It is a question of structures that do not pay taxes in any country, and that should be the case. This approach will be implemented until 2019. That is what people wanted in Europe and what they want to agree on. In the documents in preparation for that discussion it was very clear that the Netherlands, as the only country, would like to postpone until 2024. And the Netherlands doesn't have such a good name. The minister now says he didn't repeat that, but the people have seen it in the papers. The minister says he didn't mention 2024. Then what was his angle? Until when did the Minister intend to postpone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u125	In the Netherlands, we know the good practice of informing the Chamber before we have this kind of discussion in Brussels, so that the Chamber can table motions. That's what happened here. The Chamber said I shouldn't ask for a long delay. I do not have the literal text of the motion at hand, but in the motion I was not forbidden to ask for a longer term. I operated on that line, too. We have not been able to negotiate for how long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u126	Now the Minister's really playing a game. The documents in preparation for this discussion, which all the countries have received, state that the Netherlands, the only country, wants to postpone until 2024! We are now living in 2016. All this time, this tax avoidance can still take place. It's really crazy. The majority of the Chamber has adopted a motion stating that the government should not do so, but the Minister says: I did not say it; I asked for a postponement. Everyone knows that the Netherlands has said "2024"? Whether the Minister should speak of a very small delay and then we talk about months, but if he doesn't say anything, of course everyone just thinks of 2024. Otherwise, the Minister is really playing a game here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u127	No, Mr. Chairman. I think that Mr Koolmees now has the motion in hand. No, I didn't. I think it makes sense to take that motion. We have taken this motion seriously. In fact, it said that I should not argue for such a long transitional period until 2024. So we haven't done that anymore. I have just said that we did not get there at all in the discussion. The ECOFIN Council in Brussels has not discussed at all whether it is acceptable or not, whether a compromise is possible, whether it can be reached for one year or two years, or what is necessary and conceivable. We didn't get to that at all. Mr Merkies may ask me what outcome I want to negotiate, but I am not going to say that, of course. I just think that the Netherlands needs a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u128	I have another question about income tax and corporation tax, because I have kind of lost the line of the Labour Party. Maybe the Minister can help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u129	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u130	This Minister has been committed to tackling tax avoidance, for which he pays tribute. He did the same in the OECD context. It's really going the right way. Last Monday, however, he also said to RTL Z: The Netherlands is likely to reduce the tax on profits for companies in the coming years. That was a response to all those measures to combat tax avoidance. Jobs, location and competitiveness are, of course, elements of competition. This morning, however, I read in the Volkskrant that the new leader of the Labour Party, Mr Asscher, is now saying that he is going to increase corporation tax. Then I don't quite understand it anymore. I very much agree that tax avoidance is being tackled. That also has the support of D66. This minister points out that corporate tax is going down in the coming years. However, Minister Asscher says in a different capacity, namely as the leader of the Labour Party, that it should be raised. What is the line of the Labour Party now? What does this minister think is wise about corporate taxation for the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u131	It's relatively simple. You have a cabinet position and a position of the Labour Party for the coming years. If Mr Koolmees asks me what the position of this cabinet is, I say that the cabinet wants to tackle tax avoidance and to be at the forefront of it. Mr Merkies said that we have a bad name. Hopefully we had that bad name and we are beginning to lose it. After all, I do not want the Netherlands to constantly play a role in all these constructions. That's not good for us. So we're gonna clean that up. In the cabinet, we agreed that this could lead to a lower rate if this would lead to higher Vpb revenues. In the same broadcast of RTL Z I also told the ladies and gentlemen that the expectations on this can be extremely limited. I'm sure Mr Koolmees didn't quote that part. After all, the point about these structures is that people don't pay taxes. They should have paid them in another country, for example in the United States. If you're dealing with constructions, then that means that in that CV/e.g. construction, for example, the result is that taxes will be paid in the US. I am in favour of this, because these American multinationals now simply have a competitive advantage over their European competitors. Those European competitors pay grossly, or at least more taxes than those American companies, but this does not lead to more tax revenues in the Netherlands. As far as this meeting in the Cabinet is concerned, I am loyal to that, because I am the minister of this cabinet. This view is: if this approach to these structures leads to more Vpb revenues, this can lead to an adjustment of the tariff. At RTL Z I said that we shouldn't expect too much of it, but apparently that didn't work out very well. It is also a very practical argument. These measures only gradually go into our legislation countries. This autumn we will do something about the innovation box in the Netherlands. We'll adjust it. Next year we come with other parts, for example the interest deduction limit from ATAD 1. Even later, there you have him... ATAD 2 is on the table. I don't know when we're gonna have to implement it, but it's gonna happen. All of these things are going to go so I must warn you beforehand that very little extra Vpb revenue will result. This cabinet has said: should this occur now, quod non, this could lead to a lower rate. The Labour Party has an independent view that does not reflect government policy, as can be seen in many more areas, and that can also mean, quite apart from ATAD 1 and ATAD 2, that the Vpb rate can rise by a few percent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u132	My conclusion is, however, and I think that a sensible conclusion...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u133	The drawing of conclusions on questions raised seems to me to be something for the second term, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u134	This is an interruption in two, isn't it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u135	Not necessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u136	The conclusion seems to me to be that the correct approach to tax avoidance is indeed very good, and that D66 fully supports it, and that this could lead to less or more tax revenues in the coming years, depending on the different measures it is, of course, a whole package of measures, and that the line of the cabinet is right that it is more likely that corporate tax will go down than up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u137	No, I'm gonna give you another profit warning. Just don't count on it. Anyone who thinks that tackling tax structures will lead to much more tax revenues in the Netherlands, I can say that this is going to be very disappointing, and yet tackling tax structures is really necessary and good. I guess I'll just give you a win warning right away. As a PvdA candidate, I am more likely to express and support views that are not part of this cabinet policy. So if that's the news fact, I can confirm that. That's it for ATAD 2. I come to the amendments. I guess I forgot some questions, but in the second term, we'll just have to see what stayed. In the amendment to item No. 3 on emergency aid from Mr Voordewind, Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Veldhoven are proposed to finance additional emergency aid from the asylum meevaller. To begin with, my advice is to discourage this amendment. We ourselves, on the basis of vacant space at BuHa-OS and part of it from general funds, have made additional funds available, I believe 48 million, to add them to the emergency aid fund and they could be used in 2017. Over the entire cabinet period, this cabinet has cumulatively allocated more than 700 million extra to emergency aid, on top of the regular budget of 200 million per year. So every year 200 million is available for emergency aid, but because of the crisis in the Middle East and the refugee problem we have allocated 700 million extra over the entire cabinet period. Hearing the requests from the Chamber and the Van Laar c.s. motion, asking for the emergency aid fund to be raised again in 2017, the cabinet has released 48 million. I think that is really enough resources and that we have carried out the motion. I would advise against this amendment. With her amendment, Mrs Schouten wants to increase child benefit by as much as 400 million. It shall charge that to the balance. That is why I reject this amendment. This would really be a step backwards in budgetary discipline and what we have worked on together with the Christian Union and other political groups, namely putting the budget in order. As I said, there is no surplus yet. In the technical sense, it is also not possible to increase the child benefit for 2016 at this late stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u138	For the sake of clarity, this was the Minister's opinion on the amendment No. 5 of Chapter XV. We are going to have a number of amendments to pieces with the number '4', but they are all covered by different budget chapters. You'd better keep this one apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u139	Right. I was at the top of the amendment: "No. 4" and 34620-XV, but as chairman, I'm sure you'll have a better overview. Now to Mrs Schouten's amendment on the health allowance. I don't have an annotation on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u140	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 4 of the budget chapter XVI.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u141	This concerns the second supplementary budget of VWS. The budget for the healthcare allowance in 2016 should be increased by 400 million. This is also borne by the balance. All in all, the balance would go down by 800 million and end up in red. The healthcare allowance for 2016 has already been paid in full. An increase can no longer be technically regulated. I must therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u142	It is, of course, a pity that the Minister is not advising on my two amendments. He said it would be charged to the balance. Do I understand correctly that the cabinet itself raised some 330 million from the windfall in order to cover the problems of civil servants' pension funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u143	No. For this we are going to do an edition in spring for the salary space of the year 2017. This will therefore be covered in the 2017 budget. These amendments concern 2016. If you are referring to the tax assessment, I would say that we have not used it at all for new expenditure. The decision fell into the same Council of Ministers, so I can imagine that the picture was formed that there was a windfall and that 330 million would be added to the collective agreement of the police, defence and so on. However, that was not the case. These things coincided over time, but they are separate from each other: one for the 2016 budget, the other for 2017. Now for the amendment to item No. 4 of 34620-XIII, an amendment to the budget for EZ. It concerns 25 million for Zeeland, from the fund for energy saving in the rental sector. Zeeland has been promised 25 million in the Delta letter. Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Nijboer held a debate on the nature of this commitment. Indeed, that commitment concerned existing money. We do not have a money machine, so we cannot just create new money. I was present at that conversation. Zeeland has received an oral undertaking from the Minister for Economic Affairs that he will commit himself to 25 million for Zeeland within the existing resources. They come from his own budget if necessary, but depending on the subjects, this can also be from other budgets; of course, on the basis of good projects, but everyone agrees on that. When it comes to investment, these must therefore be profitable projects. That was the commitment to Zeeland. The Zeeland directors were very content with that, because they could now work seriously on projects they were already working on, because they now have a real view on funding. Again, I was there. The Minister of EZ has really mentioned the amount and said that this will be available on the basis of good projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u144	That was initially also the feedback, but then the Chamber got a very blurred wording, in which I see six brackets to get out of it. It contains an effort obligation, not a result obligation. Can I understand the Minister of Finance in such a way that the 25 million is just going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u145	Yeah, based on good projects. Then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u146	Then I'm still stuck with that letter. This is an official letter sent to the Chamber. Then I interpret it as a further explanation from the cabinet about the 25 million from Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u147	The text is clear, but there are always strokes to the arm. We never have a result obligation to spend money. The whole budget is a mandate to do it. However, we never have a result obligation. It's not like this money has to be spent. Zeeland has said that it is working on good projects. There are examples of this. If Zeeland then has no idea at all of the cabinet's willingness to help him make the funding available, it wonders what it is working on. So we crossed that bridge together. We have said that the money comes from good projects. We are constructive in this. We are going to cooperate with Zeeland in these projects, so that we do not say at the last minute that we do not like a project. We will develop these projects constructively with each other. The Minister of EZ will then make every effort to ensure that the 25 million will also be available. That amount has not been set aside. That was also a concern of Mr Dijkgraaf. He wanted it separately, with an ear tag for Zeeland. The Minister of EZ has said that he will find the resources within the various possibilities and pots on his budget or on those of others, for example in the field of education. There isn't a bit of digging out of here and there to separate that money. I think that's a good approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u148	So that sounds like the yes of the Minister of Finance to the question of whether there is 25 million, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u149	I think it's clear. The short summary is: if there are good plans, there will be 25 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u150	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u151	Mr Dijkgraaf, does this also mean that you are announcing that you have the two amendments on item No. 4 withdraws, both by XIII, the substantive side, and by XVIII, its coverage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u152	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u153	The Dijkgraaf/Bruins amendment (Doc. 4 (34620-XIII) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u154	I have here another amendment which I have not seen before, but which has just been put under my nose, namely the Merkies amendment (34620/B, No. 4) over 50 million for the homeless and homeless. Coverage is the revenue snatch on the state budget. As I said, the Secretary of State of VWS is sending a letter on the numbers. It also contains an answer to the question of whether there is a bottleneck. There is a real under-exhaustment in the municipalities in the social domain. The coverage is also relevant, I have to give Mr Merkies. The cover comes from the revenue counter. We'll get an extra edition out of that. That would already be contrary to the budgetary rules. De facto, it's just an extra expense from the balance. Because I don't have any money left. That's where we are now. I must therefore discourage this amendment, however sympathetic it may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u155	So that was the amendment in part No. 4, under 34620-B.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u156	Correct. That brings me to the end of my reply. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u157	We have an amendment tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Bruins on point No. 5, under VIII, and cover under XVIII, also in part No. 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u158	The amendment concerns 19 million to finance the start-up of Beta College Zeeland. I don't have any information on that right now. It's gonna have to be delivered for a while. Can I come back to that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u159	It's mine. I see that Mr Dijkgraaf also allows this. Did the Minister come to the end of his reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u160	Something tells me I've skipped questions, probably because I've gone through it in bigger blows. I hope that we will be able to answer them in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u161	I note that the Chamber needs a second term. I suspect there is no need for a suspension prior to the second deadline. I call Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr. Chairman. I still have a few points. The Minister says that it is about the tax authorities' realization figures for the third quarter, but the documents really state that it is about extra income from the first half of the year. So that is also a cash-realization in the first half of the year. That is why I am somewhat surprised that we have not been informed of this before. The next point concerns hybrid mismatches. There really needs to be a year, I say to the Minister. It is impossible for the Minister to say "I asked for a postponement, but I am not going to say until when" or "I didn't say anything, I'm leaving it in the middle." In the documents prepared in the run-up to European discussions, it is clear that the Netherlands is the only country that wants to postpone until 2024. This large-scale tax avoidance, which takes place mainly between the Netherlands and the United States, is thus made possible until 2024. It's not about paying less taxes, it's about not paying taxes. You can't do that. For the debate that we are still going to have with the Minister and the Secretary of State on tackling tax avoidance, it really has to be clear how much delay one wants. It is necessary to specify the year or for how many months to be postponed. Otherwise, I assume it is 2024 and then the motion adopted by the Chamber has not been carried out. The next item is the homeless care. The Minister likes my proposal but says there is no money for it. I would like to point out that I am only asking for 1% of the windfall for this. So it's not much. I am, of course, waiting for the letter to come tomorrow, but let us not forget that earlier this year there was talk of an increase in the number of homeless people in the Netherlands by 74% over a period of six years. So we do have a problem. I hope that what the Minister says is true: that the municipalities have no problems. However, other sounds reach me as well. Of course, it changes by municipality. Some municipalities are still trying to get the money out of other jars. But there is a problem, and I would like to draw the Minister's attention to that. He talks about under-exhaustment in the social domain. However, there is no under-exhaustment in social care. If that were the case, I would just say to them: go spend the money, get to work! It is not just about shelter but also about helping the homeless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mr. Chairman. In the first place, I stressed the importance of having buffers again. Fortunately, the Minister also indicated this in his reply. We still have a deficit for this year, by the way. This also limits the scope for all kinds of financial wishes that live in the Chamber. I also think it is important that we keep those buffers, for the future and for the moment when things are going badly. And that, eight years after the financial crisis began, we finally have a kind of normal budgetary system, where we are not going to spend right when things are going well and, on the other hand, we do not have to cut back if things are not right. That seems very sensible to me. Questions remain about the Infrastructure Fund: underprogramming and overprogramming. We'll get the answer to that. At one point, I'm a bit reassured. I have also had some leaves in those pieces and I saw that questions have also been asked at the committee for I and M. When I look at the explanatory statement, I think there are very justified reasons for the fact that this year more has been spent on some parts and less on some other parts. Often this is in the fact that projects were a bit cheaper or that they have just crossed the year line. The most important thing is that this year's budget closes 100 million higher than at the beginning of this year, when it comes to building roads. I think that is important, including in the fight against congestion. I think the setbacks were mainly in other parts: rail and water. It is likely that in the next period there will still have to be money, but at least that is not where the bottleneck was this year. Mr Van Dijck started in the first period on Greece's additional expenditure. I had left that subject for a while, but since we are meandering through all the subjects, as the Minister said, I would like to say here that I am relieved that the system is still working. This means that the Member States are still looking to see if they are keeping Greece in the right place. And that if Greece plans this kind of expenditure, the consequence is that other Member States say: take it easy; we are not going to give permission to do so right away. Or: that will have consequences for the agreements we already had on debt relief. I am very pleased that this decision was taken by the Eurogroup and in the ESM. Finally, I come to the motion that has already been announced. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that no impact assessment has been made in the proposal for hybrid mismatches with third countries, whereas the House of Representatives has unanimously voted in favour of the proposal;]] [[noting that there is still much uncertainty and uncertainty about the effects of the Brexit and about the new US tax plans;]] [[noting that OECD Action Point 2 places the responsibility for removing the effects of the hybrid mismatch first of all in the third country itself;]] [[speaks out to draw a "yellow card" for the proposals for hybrid mismatches third countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Harbers, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34620-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u164	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. The Navy note, on page 39 in the vertical explanatory memorandum, states that there is 113 million underprogramming on the main road network and 12 million on the main waterway network. The minister was just talking about overprogramming. However, these amounts are substantial. It's not like there's just been $5 million lying around somewhere. The projects are quite large, but they are not that big. I would therefore like to clarify this point. When could we have known about this? If you know a year earlier that you're underprogrammed, you can at least get rid of that underprogramming and you'd have had fewer lags. Now I can come up with motions to issue this before 31 December, but we do not lay down any roads between now and 31 December. So I'm curious as to why this is happening. I thank the Minister for the commitment that, as I asked, he will return to the amount of damages for the Dutch pension fund within a month by the ECB policy. I am very curious about the calculation and how he weighs things. I also asked if there are other countries where you pay 46% marginal rates if you earn the minimum wage, or 49% if you have a modal income. I wonder if there are any examples. I am also curious how this relates to Germany, France, England or Italy. After all, this is the biggest tax change in the cabinet. It is not a 2% VAT increase, but it is a full 7% increase for middle incomes; 7% in this cabinet period! When did the Minister first speak to Secretary of State Wiebes about the departure scheme and about the fact that hundreds of millions have been spent in the wrong way? That question is still open. I ask this question because it was not in the Spring paper and because there was still a time when the Chamber could have been informed. I come to today's surprise: V and J didn't bring in 100 million because too few fines were imposed. This means that 100 million savings will have to be made this year. The government parties have rightly said in the General Political Reviews: let us not solve the problem of fines through the prisons and the police. It will not happen again in the future, but it will have to be resolved next year. The Minister says both here and on Twitter: we'll see about that in the spring note. But it is a large sum, 100 million, within V and J. The minister says it's not gonna be made to the police. That's half of V and J's budget. Where is it going to be made? We need to be clear about this very quickly. We don't want it to be at the expense of police capacity. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a setback for fines of EUR 100 million in 2016;]] [[Considering that the Ministry of Security and Justice should resolve this setback in 2017;]] [[noting that as of 2017 there is a good reason not to resolve penalties within the budget of V and J;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow adjustments to be made at the expense of the capacity of police, justice, justice and prisons;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate within two weeks how it intends to resolve this problem in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Schouten, Mr Koolmees, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Merkies.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34620-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u165	The reason we don't want to wait for the Spring Note is that it's a large amount. If you have to fill that out at the very last moment.... we have seen that at the AIVD.................................................................................................................................................................... Let's see it in time. There are enough bottlenecks as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mr Nijboer waived his speaking time. Mr Van Dijck also waived his speaking time. I call Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u167	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. I'd like to walk by a few more topics. It is primarily about the under-exhaustment and about the in=exhaustation. It is indeed normal system. This happens more often; I very much agree with that. But now there is an open sum of 0.9 billion. This will have to be completed in December. I think that's a lot of money. I have established a relationship with the wider debate on the coverage of relatively small amounts in the budget debates. I asked the Minister to reflect on that. Given the time, I understand that question has been skipped. I already know the answer, so we'll skip that in the second term. But I would like to know more about the multiannual targets that are still open to different budgets. For example, it is about the UWV and OCW. I asked for it in the first place. There may be more targets for 2018 and 2019 that are still open and still need to be filled in. Can the Minister give an overview of this, for example in the first quarter of next year? Then we can see what else needs to be solved. I'd like to comment on this. I'll be on the Vpb and the 4.3 billion-dollar windfall. I understand it's hard to window. Corporate tax is a very volatile type of tax. That has to do with the profit and loss account. The profits of companies can also suddenly increase significantly. I'd like a clear response to that. Finally, I come to the fines at V and J. Mr Omtzigt has also tabled a motion on my behalf. We just had a lot of trouble, with steam and boiling water, making 450 million for police, justice, courts and legal aid. In that case, I think it is very special to pick up another 100 million, so to speak, for fines for which there will be a different system next year. I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u168	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the few questions I have asked. In any case, it is a good thing that the analysis of low interest rates is timely. I would like to reflect on the answers given by the Minister in response to our amendments. Of course, I would have expected the Minister to discourage these amendments because of budgetary discipline, but I am also concerned about the problem underneath, namely that the marginal pressure on middle incomes has become very high in this cabinet period. We have ensured that people who are just about to earn a little more can sometimes turn in almost a whole euro. It concerns the group of middle-income people, who are just outside all kinds of surcharges. That is a real problem. With these amendments, I shall try to restore that a little bit. Does the Minister agree with me that marginal pressure is a major problem for middle incomes? It concerns just the groups that are always called the hardworking Dutch. My final question to this minister would be: does he think that a next cabinet should do something about the marginal pressure, especially for middle incomes? Does he also want to reflect on how this cabinet period went for this group? Rest of me to wish the Minister happy holidays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u169	That's a little premature, but thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u170	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. We are about to receive a response to the two amendments that remain on the Beta College in Zeeland. I commend it to my fellow Members, because we talked about the 25, but it was originally 44 million. As far as the 25 million are concerned, I welcome the clear wording of the Minister for Finance. If there's any good plans, there's gonna be 25 million. The question is, what are these good plans now? I would like to hear the Minister very clearly about that. I interpret it so that there is no hidden explanation of the substance or weighting of the cabinet. The content must be in line with the report of the Balkenende Committee. As far as the word "good" is concerned, it is mainly a question of effective plans, which do justice to the objectives set out. For the rest, I would like to wish everyone a blessed Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u171	Mr. Chairman. I have a number of questions to answer and finally I will respond to an amendment on the Beta College and on the motions. The order of my answer is not structured; I ask for forgiveness on that point. Mr Koolmees had asked me to reflect on the extent to which the Chamber is still taken seriously when it wants to exercise its budgetary rights and then hears that there is no room. At the same time, it later becomes apparent that there is underexhaustment and windfalls and so on. I'm going to say something about that, because it's an important point. Budgetary rules stand in the way between desire and reality. It is, of course, very hard on members of your group, I say to Mr Koolmees. I see Mrs Van Veldhoven coming in now, who always has a lot of ambitions on green themes and would like to invest money. Then Mr Koolmees, as the financial spokesman, must say that it is not in the picture. Then, the same day in the paper, there's another 4.3 billion windfall. If we have information earlier, especially when it comes to such substantial amounts, I will also tell Mr Merkies, then the Chamber will get that information sooner. I have no interest in keeping sums away so you don't spend them. That's not how I work with the Chamber. But budgetary rules do stand in the way of that. For the time being, they are widely supported in the Chamber, not just by the coalition, but by a broad consensus. Income dropouts are not available for additional expenses. It has an important role to play in making fiscal policy work and creating peace in the budgetary cycle. It's gonna be a lot of work to do that right. When things go well it is harder to keep the reins tight than when things go badly, because in the latter case there is urgency and everyone wants to put the budget in order. If we follow the budgetary rules in the coming years, the budget will remain broadly balanced, the public debt will fall and there will still be room for additional expenditure. Within that framework, there is really room for the Chamber to set priorities. And of course, the Chamber can always just move things, even if you have to have a majority for the coverage. That's the hardest life of a Member of Parliament. Mr Koolmees says something outside the microphone, but I did not hear him correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u172	Posting comments only makes sense if you use the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u173	Mr Harbers still owes me an answer on the issue of under-exhaustment. He asked if an analysis could be made, looking back over the underlying period. I would like to make a commitment to return to this in the explanatory statement on the annual financial report. We then focus on questions like what underexhaustment we have had, what the image of it is, how we have dealt with it, what lessons can be drawn from it, whether the quality of our estimates is satisfactory, etc. We will consider this in the annual financial report. Mr Van Dijck owes me an answer to his question on the burden relief of 45 billion for Greece. That number appears to have been mentioned by the Prime Minister of Greece. That shows how good Mr Van Dijck's Greek is, because I had missed that. The ESM has made its own calculation of what is the longer term significance of these three debt relief measures. In the ESM's view, it means that public debt as a percentage of GDP in 2060 could be about 20 percentage points lower than the current baseline. The ESM didn't put a number on that, so I don't know how those twenty percentage points would translate into 45 billion, because then you have to make all kinds of assumptions. The gross financing burden could be about five percentage points lower in 2060 according to the calculations of the ESM, but the calculations are really the responsibility of the Greek Prime Minister. Mr Omtzigt drew attention to the marginal pressure and asked how exceptional that is and what it looks like in other countries. Is there a comparison of that? The OECD makes an annual international comparison of the marginal tax burden for a number of model households, but these are not compared at WML level. The closest comparison to this is the marginal pressure on single workers without children, who earn two thirds of the average wage. That's the OECD system in that investigation. In the Netherlands, the income of this model household was approx. $33,000. The marginal rate for this model household was 41.2% in 2015 and the calculation took into account the income tax and the deductibility of pension contributions. The marginal rate in the Netherlands is above the OECD average of 32.1%. However, there are countries that Mr Omtzig explicitly asked for a higher marginal rate in 2015 for this example household. In Germany, the marginal rate was 47.1% and in Belgium 55%. So there are indeed examples of countries where the marginal rate is even higher. Mrs Schouten asked me how I feel about that. The Minister thinks that's high. I find the tax burden on labour high and per political trend you can say where you find it most difficult and for whom you find it most problematic. It's high. For this reason, SZW is now conducting an extensive investigation into this issue. That is also the case at the request of the Chamber. The results will be available for the cabinet formation. This is an earlier commitment from the Minister of SZW. Then there is the question of the Infrastructure Fund. Are we talking about underprogramming or overprogramming or not? Overprogramming is used in the Infrastructure Fund in real structural terms for infrastructure works. This happens every year, but in 2016, the autonomous delays during that year were higher than the overprogramming. On balance, therefore, there was underprogramming. I find this myself a confusing term, because a program is something you imagine. So there was never any underprogramming. There's never been programmed that we were going to do less than there was budget. My statement is correct, but I admit that the term underprogramming has led to confusion. My theorem was "" and I'm keeping it up "that as a policy choice there is overprogrammed on the Infrastructure Fund every year. But on balance, this has not been achieved in the past year and has been spent less than was available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u174	Mr Omtzigt, in the hope of avoiding a possible debate with the Minister of I and M.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u175	Yes, because I am also looking at the clock and I suspect that you, as President, would have liked to start another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u176	And not just me, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u177	It's starting to get a little clearer, but not much clearer. On page 39, it is true that there is also 113.8 million underprogramming. This concerns the main road network expenditure section. Then it seems that after adding up and subtracting, there really was underprogramming. I would ask the Minister of I and M to write a letter about what was planned at the beginning of the year and what the delays were. I don't know how to make that out of this. Then I can also see if things are underprogrammed or if things haven't been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u178	When do you want that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u179	Before the end of the recess? I could ask for today, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u180	For the final vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u181	No, before the end of the Christmas tree. I want it today, but I don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u182	That's gonna be a little tricky, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u183	That is what we are happy to say. There is real overprogramming every year, but the outcome of this year is that funds have not been spent. The term underprogramming to describe that is unfortunate to me, because it suggests that you programmed it and it's not like that. We are sending a letter, in which we set out the facts and figures on this point. Then there's the increase in traffic jams. During the period 2010-2014, traffic jams fell sharply. The loss of travel time was reduced by as much as 30%. Since 2014, we have seen that congestion is increasing again. This was also expected on the basis of the scenario studies with which I and M work and in which economic growth was projected. The weather and working on the road play a small role. The main factor seems to be the economic recovery and the pressure on the road that this entails. This does not add much to what I said in the first term. Mr Omtzigt has asked what we are spending on roads as a percentage of GDP. That was 0.31% in 2016. As I said, there was a peak at the beginning of the cabinet period, because then resources were brought forward. Then we spent 0.38% and 0.39%. In 2015, it was 0.35%. In 2016, 0.31%. Next year, the weather will rise to 0.32%. That's because of the denominator effect. Of course, I don't have to explain that the denominator effect is through it. Road expenditure remains high in the Netherlands. That is why our road network has such high quality. Mr Merkies would like to hear a year: how much delay do we want on the point of ATAD 2? This concerns the approach to hybrid mismatches with third countries. In line with the motion, I haven't repeated 2024. Mr Merkies has done so several times in this debate, but I have avoided that. Once again, it is our preference that the new American government should solve this problem quickly. Given the impact in the Netherlands, we ask for a slightly longer implementation period. I find it unwise to conduct the negotiations here in the Chamber, but I always have the motion in mind. Mr Omtzigt asked about the departure scheme at the Tax Office in the first period. He asked when the Minister, so the undersigned, heard about the costs of the departure scheme. I believe that the Chamber was informed of this: I too was informed by the IRF for the first time on 11 March. That can also be found in the facts. I have already responded to the amendment on homeless care, but Mr Merkies came back to that. It's not like there's no money for that. I cannot judge at the moment whether there is more money needed for this. That's what the letter from the U.S. Secretary of State is about. That letter comes today or tomorrow. If more money is needed, my perception is that a lot of money is underspent in the social domain at local level. There's just money left. If there was an acute problem in the homeless shelter, Mr Merkies said that the winter begins today or tomorrow, the communities in their social domain are underexhausted. That seems to me to be the obvious way to look at this, but it is good to wait for the letter from the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Are we going to do the amendments first or are we going to do the motions first, Mr President? Do you prefer an order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u184	You said everything was mixed up with you. So we'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u185	You'll see. There is one more amendment I have to deal with, namely Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, which aims to fund Beta College Zeeland. That is 19 million, to be covered by the energy saving fund. In recent years, the Empire has invested heavily in Zeeland education. For example, 40 million has gone towards maintaining and renewing quality education and we have already talked about the 25 million for projects in Zeeland. Tomorrow's a separate AO over there. I would also advise against funding from the Energy-saving Fund for the rental sector. That fund has a total of 75 million. It is true that exhaustion is slower than expected, but there is still a great deal of work to be done. So it would be unwise to remove those resources from there now. I therefore advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u186	You have advised against the cover amendment. You have not explicitly advised against the first amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u187	I do not recommend the two amendments that I have here: the amendment on item No. 5 (34620-VIII) and the other amendment has part No. 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u188	Yes, the amendment with file number 34620-XVIII is the cover amendment and the amendment with file number 34620-VIII is the substantive amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u189	I'm deceiving both of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u190	Then Mr Dijkgraaf will say that he finds that very annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u191	I'm not that kind of guy. I was expecting this. The Chamber must now state what it wants. This is indeed the familiar story. So the government is consistent. I would like to say that the Minister's comment on under-exhaustment is the understatement of the year. He can get that prize, because the 73 million that is now there was also in 2015 and 2014. There's been one project done over the past year. That pot of money has been unused in the budget for three years. It seemed to me to be a good opportunity, but I understand the Minister's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u192	I say to Mr Dijkgraaf that I will ask my people to take a very critical look at why these funds are not being used and whether we should keep them. I'm always very interested in structural underexhaustment. The underlying theme seems to me to be unabated. Energy savings in the rental sector seem urgent to me. Thank you for drawing my attention to the fact that these funds are not used year after year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u193	I don't know if it's meant to be like this, but we're just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u194	Then two motions have been tabled. The motion in part No. 3 by Mr Harbers, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Dijkgraaf are, if I understand correctly, not actually addressed to the cabinet. The Court stated that it would draw a "yellow card" for proposals on hybrid mismatches with third countries. I do not agree with the content. The CV/e.g. structure is used by international companies not to pay taxes. We shouldn't want that with each other. However, it is primarily the responsibility of the US government, because it is the tax that should be paid there. However, we committed ourselves at OECD level to tackling this together. This is preferably the case for the country where payment is due, but that is a preference. We hold that preference. This also explains why we would consider it necessary and logical to give the US Government a little more time. In the end, I will leave this motion to the Chamber because the yellow card procedure is up to the Chamber. However, I do not agree with the substance, let us be clear. The motion in part No. 4 by Mr Omtzigt c.s. refers to the disappointing fine revenue in 2016. The motion shall state which shall not be put at the expense of such a setback. I'm asking the petitioners to hold this motion. The signal's clear. The Chamber says that there have been problems with V and J; they have now been addressed and additional funds have been allocated for this purpose. This setback must not now be at the expense of solving the financial problems and shortages in the police, the public prosecutor and so on. I understand that, but at the same time we cannot rule out the fact that there are some windfalls in the budget of the V and J Ministry and that the 100 million can be offset. I think that is normal budgetary policy. The only way we can get budgetary policy in order in all departments is if we stick to that system. I understand the political signal of this motion, and if the proposers hold on to it, I see that signal as an effort to do so, but I cannot commit to the result in advance. That would undermine the budgetary system and therefore the budgetary discipline, which should also apply to the Minister of V and J. So my suggestion is to hold the motion, and otherwise, unfortunately, I have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u195	It is good that the Minister at least understands the intention. Edoch. If he says he needs more than two weeks, I get it. I also understand that a windfall will be offset against the setbacks. But $100 million isn't just on a budget. In this motion, the government is not asked to indicate in two weeks exactly which budget chapter the setbacks are offset, but in what way the problem is resolved. I hope that the government will be able to explain this in order to prevent us suddenly from facing additional round cuts in the spring note, which would mean, for example, that prisons would have to be closed down or that the formation of police officers would have to be substantially reduced. It does not need to be filled out very precisely, but can we have an indication within two or three weeks of where this would be taking place at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u196	From the premise that you're holding that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u197	Well, not yet. I haven't said that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u198	Okay, that's why I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u199	No, I can't do that in two weeks. I have to be very honest about that; that is really unthinkable. In the spring, the Minister for Finance had a meeting with all ministers and all departmental budgets were examined. Then we look at underexhaustation and whether it is incidental or structural. Then we look at possible windfalls and so on. The Ministry of V and J also has a very large budget and then there are a lot of small problems and big problems. And there are always things on the positive side of the balance sheet. Then we'll just see where we stand, but that really happens in the spring. That starts in March, April and we finish in May. If the motion is intended that this does not apply to V and J and I have to say in two weeks how to solve this, I cannot. Then I'll have to discourage the adoption of the motion. If the cabinet is asked not to come back to the Chamber with a cut of 100 million in all those sectors for which we have just released extra money to solve the bottlenecks, I say that I understand that political message very well and that I share it. However, I do believe that V and J should simply participate in the budgetary system. In the spring we look at what remains on the sieve and I have the text of this motion in mind. If the motion is stopped, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u200	I don't see any movement, literally. I therefore have the impression that we have arrived at the end of the reply by the Minister. I thank him for that. We have thus also come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-4.u201	I propose that tomorrow we vote on the motions, the amendments and the supplementary budgets.
