ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment and the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. Finally, it's time. I think I requested this debate a year ago. The PVV predicted Air France's grip on KLM years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u3	I must interrupt you, Mr Graus. You requested this debate in October 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u4	At least that's last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u5	But not a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u6	Okay, you're right. At least it's been a long time. I've tried before. I was just about to read it to you when you interrupted me. Years ago, we predicted this. I have already requested this debate for the fifth time. So I'm really fine with it. KLM and Schiphol are among the largest private employers. Both are of national financial and economic and social importance, regardless of all emotion and pride. I am pleased about that, and I thank the Members of Parliament for that. We have all ensured that KLM's greenhouse has stayed here in the Netherlands. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for that. She too has done her best. For the past year, I've filed motion after motion to avoid worse things. Unfortunately, that has not always been possible. A large part of our blue swans threatened to be swallowed by Air France-KLM. I am still very concerned about that. That's why I'm gonna ask the government a few questions later. Other parties may see it less, but I see it as our national interest. Air France has really tried to transfer the money from KLM to France. We also have Transavia. What's gonna happen to Transavia? I want firm guarantees. KLM, Schiphol and the Association of Dutch Traffic Pilots are holding their hearts. I would ask the Secretary of State to return to Paris and obtain firm assurances that they will not come up with anything else. First, it was KLM's cashier. We managed to keep it. Hail for that. The Secretary of State didn't hear it just now, because she was talking to her neighbor. Now we must let Transavia remain 100% part of KLM and not let Mr De Juniac put something under in France. We can't let that happen. I'm gonna need firm guarantees for that. I hope the Secretary of State can give it to me. I don't want Transavia's control and shares to fall into French hands. That's what I'm asking. For the rest... I see time goes very fast. For the rest, I think there is an unfair distribution within the Group Executive Committee at Air France-KLM, as it is called; I have to say it in English, Mr President. It was always a division with at least six Dutchmen in it. I understand that now the division is ten to four, so with four Dutch. What will happen if Mr Gräber, the current great man of KLM Cargo, leaves? I ask the government to negotiate a better or equal distribution of power within the Air France-KLM Executive Committee. That's what I want. I would also like the government to consider how and with what financial coverage the State participation in KLM can be equal to the French percentage. Mr President, I do not know what is going on with time, but that is not right at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u7	That's right. That's right. If the light turns red, you'll be late. But I've interrupted you. So I'm gonna give you some space, but you're gonna have to wrap up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u8	Sure, that's good. I also want the government to send out a clear signal that structural reforms within Air France must be pursued in line with what KLM has done. KLM has implemented three collective agreements for ground crew, cabin crew and pilots. What have the French done? Nothing, strikes; millions, hundreds of millions of strikes. You can't do that anymore. However, I would like to ask both directors to do more for our national pride KLM, also in the context of social, economic and employment interests in the Netherlands. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u9	There's a question for you from Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u10	Now that we have gathered here tonight, I would like to put another question to Mr Graus. If Mr. Graus was Mr. Elbers now, Pieter Elbers, what would he do? I also feel that Mr Graus has a great need for direct involvement to give substance to shareholdership. I am curious to see what resources Mr Graus sees that the Minister could bring in from his shareholding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u11	The first question is a like-dan question. If my aunt had a dick, she'd be my uncle. I don't normally answer that. That's like-then. I am not Mr Elbers and I cannot answer on his behalf. You should ask Mr Elbers. I would like to answer the second question. I've done that a few times. I even tabled a motion on this subject with cover. You're probably referring to the financial coverage if we're going to have to take shares in KLM. I do not know if the spokesperson was referring to this; may I ask her to clarify this, Mr President? We had 20% of the coverage for that from the proceeds of ABN AMRO, but that was a few months ago. It is also out of date, because under the Floran Act, the French already have some 38% in their hands, I believe. It's doubled. So we are already behind the facts. That is why I have now opened up the question. I am now asking the government to consider how and with what financial coverage I lay that down with the minister with all his hundreds of officials; I do not have them, the state participation in KLM can be equated with the percentage of the French. So this is a question I'm putting down now. For the 20%, with which I once came, I get the cover from the sale of ABN AMRO. That's our choice. It did not share the Chamber at the time; as good friends, but at least we could try.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u12	Before Mrs Belhaj asks her follow-up question, I note that Mr Elbers is the President of KLM, so that the job designation can be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u13	That is what I wanted to explain. Imagine, Mr Graus, you are indeed KLM's great boss. This isn't a what-if question. You don't know; sometimes life can be special. I am so curious to see what strategic other choices you would make from your positive and from your position, and how you would relate to Air France. I have seen some of your debates and I have the impression that you have forgotten that there is a reason why Air France and KLM are together now. That's not just working together, that has a background. So my question is: if you are the big boss of KLM, what other strategic choices would you make? If you weren't the boss, but if you asked for it with a view to shareholdership, what are the things you'd like to see differently, including the purchase of even more shares? So very specific: what other strategic choices would you make?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u14	I would ask you to speak through the President in future, Mrs Belhaj. You have now asked me a great many questions that were intended for Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u15	No, Mr President, they are yours. Good luck with answers!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u16	I have an opinion, but I think you can answer them now!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u17	I just said that: I'm not KLM's big boss. I'm just a small, fat, balding man at the PVV. You can't answer questions like that. I do know that KLM would never have fallen into French hands if I had been at the right time and place with KLM. I can guarantee you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mr Secretary... excuse me, Mr President! In the group, of course, we must address you with 'Mr. Secretary', hence my omission. Apologies. Mr. Chairman. Air France-KLM is the largest airline in the world in terms of turnover, third in the world and largest in Europe in terms of passenger kilometres and the largest in the world in freight transport. This debate is important, because the State has a large share of KLM's shares and there is therefore a well understood self-interest for us. In addition, KLM is the pillar on which the switch function "Fonction de Connexion" is built, to use French language here for once. That might be even more important. This transition function is crucial for the entire functioning of the mainport Schiphol and therefore for the Dutch economy. The connectivity of the Netherlands and Schiphol Airport will only become more important in the future. Big companies want to sit here because we are connected to the whole world. That is our unique selling point and that is why we are discussing this tonight. More than a year ago, the mother company Air France-KLM created the unfortunate plan to release KLM's financial sovereignty. Shortly afterwards, there was a statement that it would all stay the same, but that statement is still extremely thin. That bad feeling that it is still floating somewhere and that the will is with the French, is still there. That's not just solved with a few lines of text. What did KLM have to turn in to keep that own greenhouse anyway? Or is this really a matter of principle? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? The CDA still has the uncomfortable feeling that the parent company wants to use KLM's greenhouse as collateral. Do we have any influence? The Juniac, the manager of the holding company, said in the Volkskrant: if it is necessary in the future to transfer functions, we will simply discuss them again. That while the Secretary of State told us last March that De Juniac was right to guarantee that no functions of Amstelveen will go to Paris. How's the Secretary of State in there now? In the summer of 2015, the news came that France will gain more control over Air France-KLM's policy. Long-term shareholders, such as the French State, will have a double voting right. Especially for that change in the rules, the French State increased its interest in Air France-KLM from 15.9% to 17.6%, a purchase of approximately 40 million. With this special law, which Mr Graus mentioned, shareholders get a double vote after two years. The background is that France wants to protect French companies from activist investors, such as investment funds, who are looking for quick profits. What are the consequences of this special law for us Dutch as shareholders and for KLM's network? Air France has also brought KLM a lot. KLM couldn't do it on his own at the time and had to merge. We also understand very well that you have to work together in a holding company. If one is worse than the other, you have to help each other, of course, but as partners at the table, not with one underneath and the other above. It should never be at the expense of KLM's network.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u19	At the Air France-KLM Group Executive Committee an important KLM-man, Gräber, the boss of the cargo, will quit. What does Mr Van Helvert think should be done? We've only got four seats out of 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u20	I think that is a very fair question. In July last year I asked questions to the Secretary of State, who told us in March that De Juniac will not transfer anyone from Amstelveen, so that if someone from Amstelveen stops working there will be a Frenchman appointed in Paris who will replace that Dutchman. Yet that happened again in the summer. Now we see Gräber leaving. The question is whether it will be a Dutchman again. What is De Juniac's promise worth at all that it will probably become a Dutchman? I think Mr Graus refers to the salami tactics of the French government. He cuts off a slice of sausage and we think: oh, the one slice of sausage is not so bad. If we carry on like this, that salami tactic will make sure that sausage is almost finished. When does the Secretary of State stop this salami tactic? She said in July in response to my questions that it would stop, but it just doesn't stop. Transavia is also an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u21	Does Mr Van Helvert also share that the division of the fourteen should be just seven-seven? Why does it have to be a crooked ten-four ratio? Shouldn't that be seven-seven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u22	Air France is a bit bigger than KLM, of course, so I think it's okay that there's some proportionality in it. The number in the executive board has gone from six to four. On the Supervisory Board it remained four-four, but the number of Commissioners was increased. This means that the number of Dutch people has fallen. There has also been an additional shift for the workers, a third for the French workers, while there is no one on the supervisory board for the Dutch workers. That's crooked and unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u23	Mr. Chairman. I didn't know the Minister of Finance would be here. So I changed my whole input in a short period of time, because we still have a bone to pick with him. This debate was postponed last time because we had to wait for the holding company's annual report. It might be good to refer to that for a moment. Among other things, it shows that KLM is expanding its network, which is a sign of a healthy company, and that there are major windfalls, especially due to the lower kerosene price. At the same time, you can see in those figures that when there is much more money, I certainly do not have to tell the Minister of Finance that it is easier to lean back on it while reforms are very necessary. We have repeatedly stated in the Chamber that KLM seems to be wearing the belt; there really are measures taken. At Air France the proclamation had not yet been made or the managers flew across the street without clothes. They had to climb fences over because Air France's staff disagreed with them. It was then decided, partly under the influence of the Élysée, to postpone reforms. The question now is what is the state of these reforms at Air France-KLM, especially in the Air France section. We have read in the newspaper that this reorganisation has been carried out there without any commitment. After the mandatory operation and the clear agreements made with KLM staff, for example, Air France now says: we are going to reorganise, but it is non-binding; anyone who wants to participate may participate. We are of course very concerned about this. We have received a good explanation as to why the French State has increased Air France's share capital. My colleague from the CDA rightly pointed out that this would allow much more influence from the Élysée on the holding company. If the Élysée intervenes so actively, does the Tower, the Casuariestraat and the Plesmanweg interfere? It concerns the premises of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State of I and M. Transavia France is threatening to fall into the holding company. That weakens KLM's position. This may have a good economic reason, but it weakens KLM's position and that is not a good signal at this time. What about Transavia Netherlands? Is that going to stay separate from the KLM? This is becoming KLM's prize fighter, but is it also guaranteed to remain a KLM leg? Finally, I have two more questions. Can both the Minister and the Secretary of State indicate what medium- and short-term decisions are expected for the survival and progress of this holding company, which are important for the influence of the French on KLM? What can we expect of decisions that will affect this in the near future? Or do the leaders say that things are going well and that we do not have to expect any major proposals on this at the moment? The final question is also for both directors, but I understand that the cabinet will speak with one voice. Is this construction sustainable in the long term, in view of the difficulties and considering what is desirable for us? I share the concern of many in this Chamber that we can only keep KLM, a Dutch company with great interests for our economy and with the double function with Schiphol, here only if it is well-mannered with Dutch people who keep the Dutch interest in mind. Is this construction sustainable in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u24	I now give the floor to Mr Smaling of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u25	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u26	Mr. Graus? You're gonna have to react faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u27	You wanted to get me moving after the copious meal!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u28	I understand why Mr Monasch is shooting away so quickly. I've been saying for a couple of years that the state needs to take more part in KLM. At some point Mr Monasch also put on the big pants, or he must deny that it is true what was in the media. Then it's a little different, because sometimes nonsense is written about me. Then he can say that now. However, I understand that the PvdA wants to do the same. That's why I'd like to know what he's up to now. Maybe he's changed his mind by now, but I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u29	To begin with, there is a relationship with the fact that a Member of Parliament is coming out of the bank so late and a Member of Parliament had already gone back to his bank. However, I would like to come back and explain. We have asked here and in other places whether the directors consider it necessary in the interests of KLM to increase the number of shares within the holding company, also in view of the fact that the French have also increased their share. Or do the rulers think that they have sufficient power of expression and power to keep it that way? It's not even so much about capitalizing the company, because that's what you usually do when you buy shares. I asked if it was necessary because of the influence. To date, the directors have still said that it is not necessary, because they have sufficient confidence in the agreements and have sufficient power of expression and power of expression in the current construction. I'm gonna go in there, and if it's any different tonight, we'll find out. We keep the finger on the wrist and follow it critically. As far as that is concerned, we are closing the queues. The cabinet must state whether it has sufficient influence on the policy, yes or no. That's what my questions were all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u30	My contribution and my reaction to Mr Van Helvert's comments show that there has been a very dissimilar relationship in that Group Executive Committee. I am also curious to see who will succeed Mr Gräber. Possibly the PvdA is willing to table a motion with all of us in order to exert more influence there, should the cabinet not fail, so that it does not get any less. The French already have about 40%. They buy control and power and we're losing everything. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u31	Two things. Firstly, we are not talking about which Commissioner is going to be with what nationality, and secondly, in general, I would advise that as many Dutch people as possible are in charge of Dutch companies that carry out core functions in the Dutch economy. I did that when Royal Bank of Scotland wanted to take over ABN AMRO. We may not be dealing with this directly as a Chamber, but that is crucial if decisions are to be taken later, in this case on headquarters and occupation. Look at ABN AMRO. If important investments have to be made, it is nice if one Dutchman can call the other Dutchman and you don't have to call Glasgow, as with Royal Bank of Scotland, in the case of ABN AMRO, and get an unknown Scotsman on the line. This makes decision-making processes more difficult, and that also makes it more difficult to keep things in our country. My general advice would be to take care of that. That is what I am saying to the companies and to the Commissioners. We know us and that helps in these kinds of crucial companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u32	I see the struggle the PvdA has. In principle, the Secretary of State will say that more than once in her speech, we are not the board of KLM and not the board of the holding company. We all know that, but that's not the point in this case. Does the PvdA agree with us that if you see that the French government is explicitly interfering with Air France and also with the holding company Air France-KLM, it is important that this happens from our cabinet? Maybe that should be chefsache. The Prime Minister often speaks to his French colleague now, especially as President of the European Union. He could take part in the general talks, as a negotiating point, that it would harm relations between the two countries, between France and the Netherlands, if this continued in France. Does the PvdA agree with us that you should use that as a cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u33	I am glad to be able to explain the three addresses: the Élysée and there against the Tower and the two addresses of these rulers. I have thus indicated that it must be top priority from the Netherlands. If the other state is to intervene so actively, we know how the French state does so. That's what my question was about. We will hear in the reply of the cabinet what results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Monasch. Mr Smaling has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u35	Mr. Chairman. Nice, a debate with these two rulers who, for various reasons, I always associate with agriculture. Not milk quota and bee poison today, but aviation. Some of the things I had on my list have already been said. Mr Van Helvert rightly pointed out that KLM also benefited from the holding company with Air France at some point. Let me also start by emphasising that. However, I would also like to point out that if problems arise or arise, we should not be too Calvinist and should not just keep our finger on the pulse, but also just act. My question, therefore, is, like some of my colleagues, whether the way Air French staff are dealing with the situation at the moment is also of concern to the government. In France, we believe that steps must be taken to prepare the company for the future. We can see that KLM's staff are turning in firm conditions of employment and that this is not happening in France or hardly happening, so there is something going on. What is the status of Transavia? We briefly discussed it with the Secretary of State a few months ago when she was just in office. Transavia is 50 years old this year. It has a long history and is a nice company. It was once independent and later became daughter of KLM. Now the holding structure threatens to be pushed through with parts of Transavia, so we may eventually have to let go of Transavia (HV), the Dutch part. Transavia's position, which is now improving again, may be undermined by changing its position in the holding company. Transavia has struggled with the prize fighters, with Vueling and easyJet to some extent and with Ryanair very much. I now have the impression that Transavia still needs a cost level of 10 to 15% to be able to run properly. Let us especially cherish the fact that Transavia is on the right track. I have a few other things. In KLM's figures, I have seen that there is an eternal subordinated bond. I had never heard of it, but I'm sure the Minister of Finance has. My question is whether you can count this into equity. There's a royal sum in that state and there's a decent interest on it. Can you think of that as equity? I'd find that a little strange in itself. To strengthen the grip of the Dutch State on KLM, you might want to consider taking a larger share package. Are the advantages and disadvantages of this well mapped? I'm not gonna suggest the cabinet sister or anything, because it has some implications if you take a bigger stock package, but what are the pros and cons? Finally, I have another question which is slightly out of order. This week, the newspaper said that the Authority is investigating the relationship between Schiphol and KLM. Are there complaints from other foreign airlines or is this a regular way of investigating? I cannot imagine that we, as foreign companies, would also do something like this in the Middle East around easyJet by means of a complaint.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u36	I waited for my interruption until Mr Smaling was finished. The beginning of his speech intrigued me out of bounds. Did I hear him say that it is necessary for the group as such that at least the French section should be thoroughly reorganized, that salaries should be reduced here and there and that staff numbers should perhaps be reduced? I think he's right about that analysis. If that is the case, then he can achieve something, because his contacts with the French trade union movement will be better than those of many others in this house. Perhaps he could address that appeal to those French trade unions, especially the communist part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u37	The beginning of my speech was about the agricultural history of the rulers. I thought that was what Mr Elias was talking about. I'll think about it, but we're a political party. We're not the FNV. So that line is not as direct as Mr Elias is suggesting. But you have cultural differences between the Netherlands and France, just like you have cultural differences between the Netherlands and any other country. If things get out of hand, we can easily agree on a different collective agreement with those involved in the company. This is not happening in France at all. Then you'll have to intervene, otherwise things will be crooked and you'll have Swissair, Sabena-like states, which we shouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u38	It was a bit of a teasing question, but I appreciate that Mr Smaling is taking it seriously. So does he actually cheer on any firm interventions and reorganisations in the French part of Air France-KLM, or does he at least see that they are necessary and support them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u39	It's a holding company with its own responsibility. I cannot do more than call on the government to use its influence as far as possible to ensure that the two companies are doing a little bit more in line with the measures that are being taken on this side but not enough on the other hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mr. Chairman. Let there be no misunderstanding: D66 also shares with the Chamber that there is a great interest in KLM, our national airline. KLM is part of our history, is of great importance for the mainport function of Schiphol, is an example of good employership and scores on sustainability time and time again. However, the question remains how we protect KLM's interests. We have seen the results of Air France-KLM improve, but we are not there yet. Will the Secretary of State continue to put pressure on her French colleagues to prevent, for example, further strikes, so that Air France also contributes its fair share? When it comes to the role of the State as shareholder, D66 as a liberal party is reluctant. More interference with the company itself does not solve the problems. KLM also indicates that she does not need it. The minister is the shareholder. I would like to ask him if there is some kind of emergency brake that can be pulled if there is really no other way and the interests of the mainport are at stake. What analysis does the cabinet make now? Could that be the case? What strategy is there? D66 considers that the government has a very clear task when French politics interferes too much with the price of this listed company. That is not really possible and the Netherlands must be hard at that. D66 therefore welcomes the pro-active attitude of the Secretary of State. That creates confidence again, but is it really hard when it has to be? This is directly my bridge to a few questions about Transavia, about which other comments have been made. What's the latest? Will Transavia Nederland's governance structure be changed or not? If so, how exactly? Is there a threat to the position of the home carrier on Eindhoven or to the mainport function because of the interwoven with KLM? That's all I want to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u41	I have a comment for the Acts. I began by saying that this debate was requested almost a year ago. That seems to be almost a year ago, but that debate has once been raised and adapted. I really requested it almost a year ago. I want to have that in the Acts, because otherwise people will think I'm not right in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u42	People won't think that soon, but I've got other information. I can't verify that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u43	That is true, because it has been amended once and the title has also been changed, but I requested the debate almost a year ago. I tried it a few years ago, as I said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u44	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr. Chairman. If it does not go away from my speaking time, I would like to say that it was on 26 May last year, but that there was confusion, because Mr Graus asked for the debate preventively at that time. Later it became final. First of all, I would like to name the hypocrisy in this Chamber and to denounce the crocodile tears that are plaguing many parties about the KLM. Of course, my group also considers it extremely important that we are doing well with the KLM and with Schiphol, for all the economic and social reasons that have been mentioned this evening. However, from The Hague we can do quite a lot for the preservation and strengthening of the KLM, namely by paying attention to the pivotal function of Schiphol and therefore also to the KLM. When I look at the proposals that come through here, many parties in this house are often much more concerned with bullying Schiphol and the aviation world than with defending the real interests of the environment and the residents. Instead of fighting for Schiphol's growth space and for better access to the airport by road and by rail, they place salt on every noise spray and on every environmental snail that passes by. Instead of cutting regulations and taxes for airlines, so that Dutch airlines are not unnecessarily behind foreign competitors, they come up with new rules or taxes. So please think more about Schiphol and the KLM and adopt fewer laws and commandments against Schiphol and the KLM. That is what I say to my fellow Members, if they mean what they say about the KLM and it is not just early election talk for the often.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u46	Mr Van Helvert feels addressed, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u47	I find it surprising, because in the press, on nu.nl, Mr Elias uses great words towards the cabinet: they have to act against those French. Here in the Chamber, however, Mr Elias......................................................................................................................................................... Mr Elias talks about the infrastructure around Amsterdam. If one party here has always said that it is for infrastructure but has then cut back on it, then it is the VVD itself, Mr Elias. You have always been one of them, with your prominent role in the group. You're cutting back on infrastructure here. You're cutting back on roads and you're only opening roads that have been paid for by previous Cabinets. So don't tell others they don't take care of the infra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u48	Mr Van Helvert, the point is clear. You need to keep the interruptions brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u49	I will keep to the subject tonight by saying to Mr Van Helvert: the CDA was the party of the flight tax, you were the mother of the flight tax, which cost Schiphol 900,000 passengers. Your Minister, Mr Eurlings, has concluded a memorandum of understanding giving up the right of the Dutch State to buy back KLM. Your party has no right to speak when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u50	Even if William van Oranje himself was responsible for all these things, I would make a point of it. You are here to lecture your fellow parties that they are doing too little. Mr President, Mr Elias tells his fellow speakers that they do not provide good infrastructure around Schiphol, while it is the VVD itself that stands in the front to cut infrastructure costs during this period. It is fine if Mr Elias wants to bring the whole history into play, but in this period he has a prominent role in the VVD group and cuts the VVD on infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u51	Nothing has been cut back on the infrastructure around Schiphol. You just don't know what you're talking about. Excuse me, Mr. Van Helvert just doesn't know what he's talking about. If the parties in this Chamber did not put salt on every snail when it comes to the development of Schiphol, KLM would benefit considerably more than from all those beautiful talk and crocodile tears. I just wanted to say that once. I repeat the clear line of the VVD: parliaments do not run companies and certainly not airlines. There are accidents of that kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u52	I can't get as mad at his Limburgs as Mr Van Helvert, but I can see that Mr Elias is trying to stir things up a bit. I also think that this is a good political quality. You can find what you want, but of course we do have those years of business from the Alders table, where something has come up that a majority can at least be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u53	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u54	But you act as if there is total discontent among the parties about how Schiphol and the KLM are judged by us. I note, however, that we have had the years in which we have been talking about this. Now we're somewhere, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u55	No, we ended up at a political polder compromise. That's what I signed off on in the end. I take political responsibility for that. But I have also said on several occasions that we should not do so in the future. Because we are too cowardly to make difficult decisions here in The Hague, we have shifted it to a negotiator in an exceptionally competent and convenient way. It's going to polder with the whole area and everything else you can think of. Then they came to some kind of God-peace compromise that we all said in the end: well, they've been going on since 2008; let's just do it like this for heaven's sake. I don't think that's a good way to conduct politics. A compromise has been reached: up to 500,000 flight movements, while Schiphol can handle much more technically. That's why we're gonna do Lelystad. By removing a part that can go to Lelystad, we ensure that at least there is still growth at Schiphol Airport. That is what Mr Graus is a great opponent of. That compromise looks rather ugly to me, but it is the only way to achieve something more of the growth at Schiphol. Then I'll come back to what we talked about. The KLM should also benefit from this. As far as I'm concerned, there could be a lot more flight movements at Schiphol Airport. We should offer much more space to people who live near Schiphol and who are not affected by the sound, by making good deals, so that they can leave their homes at the end of the period and take it for granted that it is a little more difficult to sell. Short and good, the place is locked around Schiphol. It's almost impossible to build anymore. We should be a little less spastic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u56	Would you like to finish? It took a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u57	I tried to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u58	It is a difficult compromise between accessibility and nuisance in a densely populated environment and the quality of that environment. It's a piece of art to manage that in the right direction. Yesterday, the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment, Mr Elias' party, defended an Environment Act in the First Chamber, which sees that we can manage conflicts of this kind. So I am a little surprised that Mr Elias is making such a song here, when I expected him to be satisfied with the way things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u59	No, it's not a number. I simply think that is what I would like to point out: we often lose sight of environmental requirements and noise requirements. It's okay for us to do that. If there is a political majority in favour of this, I respect it as a racial democrat. However, I can say that if you do so, you must also take it for granted that a company such as KLM has a part to play in this. That's all I'm saying. I'd like to see more growth at Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u60	I've got a few points. I just got called up on something. The PVV never voted or acted against Lelystad. We have just said that it is likely to be a debacle and a financial failure. Because of the polder Mr Elias is talking about, we have said: make sure that Schiphol can be extended to 600,000 flight movements. Then you don't need Lelystad. That's what we said. That's a whole different story. We've never put anything in the way of an airport. That's what I wanted to say. Mr Elias then did not support me when I said that the 600,000 flight movements should be carried out and from 1+1 runway to 2+2 runways. I share that Alders table with him, but I warned Mr Elias for a long time before that Alders table. I've been against that from the beginning and he hasn't listened to it either. It is sometimes quite good to listen to a PVV'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u61	We are. Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u62	You're confusing two things. I'm listening, but then don't take over what you're saying. That's two different things. I'm a realistic politician. In the political constellation, both of this cabinet and of this Chamber, the compromise of the Alders variant, and starting with Lelystad, was the only way to achieve growth for Schiphol. That was the only way we could do that. That is why I agreed to that. I would have preferred to support that in substance, but there was no political majority in favour of it. Unlike you, I am in Parliament to achieve something and not just to make noise. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u63	That, too, is nonsense, because the aviation plan and the aviation vision that will come, future-proof and competitive, will come thanks to the PVV. So this is bullshit. We have been taking the lead in aviation in particular for years. I just want to say that anything can happen. We clone sheep, we land on the moon, we can do anything. But it doesn't work, partly because of the lack of support from the VVD. That is why there was no political majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u64	I explained. I'm not gonna do it twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u65	There was a bit of the impression that this was a game of populist clover coats or something. I'm actually a little disappointed in Mr Elias. I expected a little more than simple words: yes, more growth is better, that's the very best for KLM. I hear him say: yes, something about the environment and something about noise. Does Mr Elias realize that this is about a lot of people in the Netherlands and that a lot of people are incredibly happy when a good balance is found between economic growth and the environment? And does he realize the psychological complaints that people end up experiencing from noise? Does Mr Elias have so many Dutch? That is what I hear Mr Elias say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u66	Speaking of populism. But that aside. I do have an eye for it. I'm just saying that the balance here and there has gone a little crazy. That's all I'm saying. We can judge that differently, but I do keep an eye on those interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u67	Mrs. Belhaj, you just walked back to your place, but you can also stand by the microphone. It's going a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u68	Occasional sitting and standing is good for the condition, chairman. I am now tasting a nuance, but I would like it to be more specific by Mr Elias. He's been walking with us for a while. When he says that he thinks it is out of balance, it seems fair to me that he also concretes it, so that people know exactly what he means by 'just growing nicely' in relation to the environment and nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u69	First you make a caricature of my words and then you go...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u70	Mr Elias, would you like to speak through the chairman? That's what you ask when you're president.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mrs Belhaj first makes a caricature of what I say and then starts fighting it. I do think there should be a certain amount of balance. I think, however, that it has gone crazy here and there. Once again, this choice can be made on political grounds, but it is not then that we should be talking crocodile tears about the KLM and the difficult position in which that airline would have come. By the way, I do like that, but I keep not getting around to saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u72	I had intended not to take part in the debate until Mr Elias went on and started to accuse people of crying crocodile tears. Then it turns out, however, that the only crocodile tears are piercing, Mr Elias himself. 'Cause what's he doing? He says: I voted in the Chamber for the new standards and enforcement framework, i.e. for a growth of over 500,000 flight movements, but I did so because there was a majority for it. What kind of politics is that? Where's the VVD proposal for 700,000 flight movements? He didn't need the whole Alders table for that. He didn't submit that proposal. Then don't come up with crocodile tears by saying: I voted in favour, because there was still a majority. What kind of lame politics is that? Come up with a proposal of your own, submit it and vote against a decision that you cannot vote for! Do not accuse others of crocodile tears if you lack handkerchiefs yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u73	No, no. It is extremely nice what Mr Monasch is doing, but it does not make any sense in terms of content. I have helped the proposal for 500,000 flight movements to a majority. That was a political-realistic choice. It was the only way to keep Schiphol growing. In that construction of the extremely clever Mr Alders we came out of it in that way. I might as well tell you exactly how that went. This may not be so common in Mr Monasch's party, but we do. We simply say it openly when we have a problem with something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u74	That majority had come anyway. That in the first place. So don't violence the truth. Secondly, if that is what you think, then you simply have to come up with your own proposal. You say that there was already a majority. You yourself have already indicated that your group was not required to do so. So come up with your own proposal. Then say: Mr Alders, I do not accept your whole procedure, we as VVD know what is right and here is the proposal. You didn't even make that proposal. There has never been a single input from the VVD in which that proposal was made. So again: buy a pack of Kleenex and wipe off your own crocodile tears, but don't come up with these kind of lame stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u75	I maintain that without the VVD there would not have been a majority for the choices that were finally made around the Alderstable, for the political sealing here. That's just the facts. And, yes, I do not feel at all like making proposals here that I already know in advance that they will not be able to count on a single majority and will not be able to make it. Then I'd rather choose the realistic path. I believe in that much more. That same realism also gives me to point out that I find many of the things that are being said here tonight belong to the category 'the government should not sit on the entrepreneur's seat'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u76	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u77	A deal was made with the acquisition of KLM by Air France in 2004. These were confirmed in undressed form by Mr Eurlings in 2010. These agreements mean that the network quality of Schiphol remains guaranteed. That is what we will assess in the light of new developments within the company and we will keep the Secretary of State to that effect. I told you, politicians don't run the KLM. But of course they hear a lot of things, also from the company's interior rooms. And they're looking at the market. Then politicians also identify things that they say in rooms on work visits and therefore also in this Parliament. It seems particularly important to me that the company should become more competitive. For example, British Airways shows that it is quite possible to be profitable and successful as a European airline at this time, competition or not. Above all, we are concerned about the French part, without immediately seeing the instruments to go ahead with it and without telling us how and what changes should be made. However, we are concerned about the lack of speed and urgency to achieve better performance and lower costs. I have to cut my text now, but is the Secretary of State still in contact with her French colleague Vidalies? What is the state of play with regard to the so desired cost savings from Paris, which I was able to talk to Mr Smaling about just a moment ago? What is true of the rumors that the Elysée has appointed a strategist to the board and that this will not lead to much reform before the French elections, which would possibly upset the powerful French trade unions? Can the Secretary of State tell us anything about that? If you don't mind, I'd like to say one more thing to the Minister. The letter of 15 March removed our concerns about the option that the KLM's equity capital would be invested for the benefit of the group. However, I read in the 2013 annual report on the management of State participations. On page 20 of that annual report, space has been given to consider the reservations in general. Are the reserves not getting very low? And isn't that one of the things the minister would have to do from his position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u78	Mr. Chairman. I think it is good to say something about the way in which the answer is given. I will talk in particular about the economic importance of KLM, Air France and the network function, the instruments for influencing Air France-KLM and the Transavia debate. Those are the things I'm concentrating on. The Minister will, of course, answer questions about shareholdership and governance from his role. Then you know what role-sharing we have in mind. Mr Graus began with the blue heart, and that is, of course, recognizable to many of us. At the same time, I agree with a large part of the Chamber that Air France-KLM is a private, listed company that has to set its own course. The company itself is responsible for a structural improvement in financial results and also for a future-proof strategy. Essential for KLM to gain a good position, it is cutting costs significantly and really increasing productivity. I shall come back to that in detail, but Mr Elias gave a good example in his speech. Because we talk a lot about KLM, Air France and the holding company and the question of what is happening in there, but the real competition comes from outside, of course. So it is not illogical to keep looking at that. I will say something about that in my contribution. And no matter how blue the heart may be, it's a little red too. Of course we're not in the cockpit. None of us run this venture; neither the Chamber nor the Cabinet. We're dealing with that limitation. At the same time, I take responsibility for ensuring the public interests involved in Air France-KLM. The Chamber can always address me to that. I think that is quite right. Then it's about the network of air connections at the mainport Schiphol. And yes, that mainport is crucial to our economy. I repeat that to several Members. A lot of jobs come from that. They are often also very good jobs. They are high-quality jobs with good working conditions. So that's just what's important. In the past year, 2015, Air France-KLM has achieved positive results in its annual figures. Mr Monasch has already referred to this. There was a net profit of 118 million. Indeed, in 2014, there was a net loss of 225 million. We can also see that the low oil price has, of course, had a huge impact on this. This is an advantage that all airlines have to deal with. Therefore, it alone does not improve the competitive position of Air France-KLM. It only gives the company time and space to make necessary investments. The CEOs of Air France-KLM and of KLM, Mr De Juniac and Mr Elbers, both stressed in the presentation of the figures that the company should continue to reduce costs and increase productivity. In view of the fierce competition in which the holding company finds itself, that is really very sensible. In the end, it is important that the position of Air France-KLM is strengthened structurally and that this really happens with some speed. This means that in the coming years the company will have to significantly reduce costs and increase productivity in order to become and remain healthy and competitive. Both KLM and Air France are working on their implementation. There is also a lot of discussion about this with the trade unions. New collective agreements were concluded at KLM in mid-2015. This has reduced costs. This is without prejudice to the need for further cost reduction in KLM as well. It shouldn't be a reason to sit back. A number of KLM cao's need to be renewed again this year. So I hope that that line can be held. That's important. Air France failed to reach new agreements in 2015. Several Members of Parliament referred to this. After that, alternatives have been put on the table that are still being discussed. It is indeed very important, and I say this with Members of this House, that those steps are being taken there too. That is absolutely important. KLM's first efforts so far to reduce costs mean that there is also money to invest and grow. New destinations will then be opened up, and that is of course very important for our economy. In the presentation of the annual figures, Air France-KLM showed that growth will take place through KLM and Transavia in 2016. I also draw attention to the importance of cost savings in my contacts with my French colleagues. Several Members have asked for this. I would, of course, point out that we address KLM and I assume that they also address their part of the holding company. That is indeed something that brings you up in your conversations. We must also use the influence that we have for this. The Dutch government plays a role in KLM in various ways. The State has powers as a shareholder, as has already been mentioned, and as a licence holder for the landing rights and for the operating licence. There is also a right to appoint an Air France-KLM Commissioner. We also have the state guarantees. There is, of course, consultation with the Air France-KLM summit and the French Government. I was just referring to that. Mr Elias has been somewhat politicised in his speech, but if you read between the lines, you can see that he has also said some very wise things, namely that we need to work on optimum conditions. That's right. I very much agree with him. That is why we are now working on the Schiphol Agenda for Action. We also use the European Presidency. In this context, we have organised an Aviation Summit, including the mandates for, for example, negotiations with the Gulf States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u79	First of all, I would like to say that every ruler has been saying to me for years: we are not about KLM. But we are dealing with that, because the State has shares in it and the Chamber has to check it. Moreover, we are dealing with a very large private employer of national interest. So we're all about this. I come now to my questions. The Secretary of State himself quoted the three collective agreements that KLM has already pushed through with the staff and with the help of the staff. The French didn't do anything. They've only stopped, and it's cost hundreds of millions. And the bill will be with KLM sooner or later. That's a real concern. Is the Secretary of State prepared, as I have asked, to go to Paris and ensure that Transavia remains 100% KLM and that the French now take drastic austerity measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u80	I'll be back in a few minutes to talk about Transavia. I have not yet been able to answer Mr Graus's questions. I'm in Paris all the time. As I have said, I use my contacts, including at government level, to underline the need for the cuts that the whole group has to make. As far as I am concerned, there is not a word of French. It must be done, both in Paris and in Amsterdam. We must keep that on the agenda together. By the way, I would like to point out that, when we look at the state of employment figures, we are happy to see that the holding company shows that fewer people are employed, both at KLM and at Air France. So steps have been taken, but it is not enough. I agree with the Chamber. That really needs to happen. This is absolutely necessary for the interests of the company in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u81	Mr Graus, the Secretary of State has just indicated that she will return to your questions in detail in the reply. You'll still have plenty of room. I suggest we give the Secretary of State an opportunity to finish her story. Then you will have ample opportunity to interrupt, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u82	Sure, but I just wanted to say they don't do what the Secretary of State and we want. So my request is simply to go and grab them by the ears and say: we've got three CEOs jammed through it, and now it's your turn. She's just gonna have to put the fist on the table over there. In this way she was able to retain the KLM cash under pressure from the Chamber. It's just gonna have to happen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u83	Once again, I think it wise to use political contacts to exert pressure where necessary, both in the Netherlands and in Paris. If Mr Graus does not blame me, I will do so in my own way. He knows my effectiveness, but that goes according to a slightly different way of working than he usually does. But there's got to be a difference. It remains that the Dutch Government can exert influence, but that we are not in the cockpit. So we're not in charge. It's a listed company. I think that the Chamber should realize that limitation. That is what we differ on, as I say to Mr Graus in all kindness. Mr Monasch asked what decisions would be taken to increase French influence. As far as I'm concerned, there's not going to be a decision right now. As I said, it's a private company. As several Members of Parliament have pointed out, we made agreements in 2004, which we confirmed in 2010. We sent another letter to the Chamber on 23 November last. As far as I'm concerned, those agreements are in place. And yes, the merger did KLM well. There have been more destinations. This can also be seen from the Monitor network quality and State guarantees, which we send to the Chamber every year. Mrs Belhaj asked how we protect KLM's interests. Maintaining network quality is the real public interest that is at stake. We secured it through Schiphol. KLM plays an important role in this. The government has an influence on securing those public interests in the various roles. I have just recalled them: as a shareholder, as a licence holder for, among other things, KLM's landing rights and operating licence, through the appointment of a Commissioner, through consultation with the directors of Air France-KLM and KLM, and through consultation with the French state. Air France-KLM is first and foremost an initiative to achieve structural recovery. The Dutch and French authorities can, of course, see how they can support the company. We do this mainly by creating the best conditions for the company to compete internationally. I come to this in the Action Agenda Schiphol, where we look at land-side accessibility, cost problems, the way we deal with flights at Schiphol or Lelystad. The Chamber will have that agenda for action this spring. As the European President, we are looking at what we can do at European level to strengthen the position of European aviation. Last December we received the Aviation Strategy from the European Commission. We had an extensive exchange of views on this during the Aviation Summit at Schiphol Airport on 20 and 21 January. This happened for the first time with the whole European aviation sector. For that reason alone, it was a very special meeting. According to several attendees, even from an unsuspecting angle, I'm just saying, it was the best meeting ever. That indicated that there was a lot on the agenda. Mr Monasch asked whether this construction was sustainable in the long term, I assume that he meant the holding company. Air France-KLM has a clear structure, including the Dutch and KLM interests. I'm referring to the agreements we made. They're clear. This includes the extension of the State guarantees in 2010. We confirmed it to the Chamber last November. Mr Van Helvert came back to an issue that played before. He asked what KLM had to turn in to keep the greenhouse. I have no evidence that KLM had to turn in anything for that. Several members have asked about the savings required by Air France. Mr Graus, Mr Monasch and Mr Elias asked what savings had been made. There have been four rounds of voluntary departure at Air France in recent years. Since 2010, the number of FTEs according to Air France-KLM has decreased by 8,000. KLM is a decrease of 1,100 FTEs in the same period. Furthermore, KLM's operating margin is higher than Air France's. Air France is now working on a fifth round of voluntary departure. At the end of February the Executive Board informed the Works Council. This is a voluntary departure scheme for 1,400 ground staff and 200 cabin crew in the coming months. They're talking to the pilot unions. Air France has not yet agreed with trade unions on lowering wages and increasing productivity. We can all see that this is necessary. It is gratifying that Mr Smaling has also said this from his background here. I think so, too. Mr Van Helvert asked if we have any influence. He referred to a potential danger of salami tactics, as he called it. We've been given clear promises. I informed the Chamber on 23 November. Those appointments are on the table. I'm gonna hold the board of directors to that, too. I don't think it's any brighter than that. Almost all Members have asked about the situation at Transavia and what is going to happen there. It is well known that there is talk within Air France-KLM about a possible change in the governance structure. That governance structure has a Dutch and a French branch. When the discussion started, it was Transavia France. Minister Dijsselbloem and I informed the Chamber extensively in November. In fact, the situation has not changed since November. Actually, nothing else happened. KLM has informed me that no decisions have been taken on possible changes to governance. At the moment, attention is focused on saving costs and increasing productivity in order to be competitive again. I think that's wise. In this respect, that dossier has actually remained unchanged from November until now. In presenting the annual figures, I believe that the priority is now to look at the problem of costs. That was a clear signal. Mr Smaling asked whether the ACM investigation was initiated in response to complaints. Because the news in the newspaper has caused confusion, I think it is good to say that it is not a new investigation of the ACM. In July 2013, the ACM announced that it is conducting an investigation into agreements between Schiphol and KLM. The ACM then indicated that it wanted to investigate whether Schiphol and KLM complied with the Competition Act in their mutual relations. I understand now that this investigation is still ongoing. The ACM is a supervisor and simply has an independent position. As long as the results of that investigation are not known, I cannot comment on it and I cannot speculate on it. However, it is important that the ACM has indicated on its website that there have been no formal complaints that led to the initiation of the investigation. That's not what the interview showed. That suggested something else. The reason was the report Shared Vision. That's all I can say right now. We will all have to wait and see. I'm just gonna take it easy. Mr Elias has said that it is important that we focus on the framework conditions. I agree with him. From the government we need to create framework conditions that allow Schiphol and the KLM to continue to grow. That is what we are doing with the introduction of the new system of standards and enforcement, which was discussed with the Chamber last month and which was accepted by the First Chamber on 8 March last without further debate. That is good, because it means that we are also clear for the longer term that there is room for growth. In part, this benefits the environment. Part of the profits go back to the area. Another part of the profit is used to further support growth. As planes become cleaner and quieter, there is more room for growth. This is a positive, innovative incentive in the system. I think that's very good. In a difficult situation, with many homes and with many people working and living in the environment, growth can still take place. The balance is always sought. We do not always meet in court. This offers stability to Schiphol, even for the long term. If you are in favour of growth in Schiphol with Mr Elias, I am very much in favour of it, then you must create a situation in which that growth can be stable. You can't do that without taking the surroundings with you. That's what we did. I welcome the broad support for the standards and enforcement system. I'd like to continue working with the Chamber in that spirit in the coming period. In the end, it is always politics and not a table that determines the frameworks. That is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u84	Let me return to the previous topic. May I conclude that the concerns expressed by several Members of Parliament regarding all kinds of rumors about Transavia are not necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u85	We always keep our finger on the pulse, but I have to say that there have been no new developments since November. So much for my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u86	There are still a few interruptions. Mr Van Helvert is the first to report to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u87	I waited for the Secretary of State to finish her speech. I would like to return to the remark that the Secretary of State has kept Mr De Juniac's promise that no parts of Amstelveen will go to Paris, that no parts of KLM will be included in the holding. I really appreciate the Secretary of State saying that, but my concern is that the past has shown that the Secretary of State will do nothing. In the meantime, a change has taken place in the person of the Secretary of State, but in the past, the Secretary of State has said that it is necessary to ensure that no business moves from Amsterdam to Paris. A few months later we see that a Dutchman in the board is replaced by a Frenchman. Next, the Secretary of State says to the Chamber that this was already agreed at the time. At the beginning of that year, the Secretary of State had gone to France and had received a commitment there. Four months later, they did something there that wasn't meant to happen. Then the Secretary of State says that was agreed, but they never told me. Then you're gonna be fooled. How is the Secretary of State going to do that other than the Secretary of State in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u88	First of all, I must add an asterisk to your comment. I wasn't there, so I should check to see if your assumption is correct. I note that immediately after my arrival I travelled to Paris to meet Mr De Juniac and to underline the Dutch interests. That was the first weekend after my arrival. It's almost impossible to go further than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u89	Absolutely. I have already expressed my appreciation for this on several occasions. I don't mind doing that again. I think it is wonderful that the Secretary of State went to France immediately after she took office. That was very good. This also gave us the first positive Twitter on the new Secretary of State, who was positive and constructive. All praise for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u90	Hold that, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u91	But then we see that, despite the Secretary of State's promise that this would not happen again, they continue in different ways. Transavia is an example of this. I am concerned, however much the cabinet is openly expressing itself towards France and to the holding company that we are not served by it and that this may harm cooperation between the Netherlands and France.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u92	We need to distinguish two things. The importance of the Netherlands is mainly the network interest of Schiphol and therefore also of KLM. That's what we have to guard. In addition, the changes on the board are quite different from what Mr Van Helvert suggests, namely a shift from Amstelveen to Paris. In addition, you sometimes have to speak openly and at other times you have to do so behind closed doors. It depends on whether you want to be effective. The latter is always my goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u93	I have another question about Transavia. The Secretary of State says there hasn't been a change since November. That leaves a bit in the middle whether there's something coming or not. Does she have any indication that the situation will remain this way? Can the HV part of Transavia look forward to a reasonably stable future or is there still a lot to be done? I fear that internal competition will arise within the company if the above-mentioned Air France pilots arrive at Transavia France. Bases are being opened in Porto and in Southern Germany. This can create a dynamic that may have an impact on Transavia Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u94	Here too, there is a two-fold answer. The main problem for the holding company is competition from low-cost airlines from outside. That's what it starts with. It is really important to find an answer to that. I cannot look into the heads of Mr De Juniac or Mr Elbers. I can't tell you exactly what the next step is. I note, however, that since November, since I had the discussion with both gentlemen on this issue, there has been no further news. The annual figures show that this is not the main priority at the moment either. What the future brings, in the end none of us can predict, but we always keep our finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u95	I understand that as part of the company, you have a cost of 10%, 15%. You put that in the sight of your coffins or for all I care in the dressing of stewardesses, but the most important thing is that you modernise IT, because that's where the main battle can be made. You have to be able to do that until you've made that catch-up at your expense? If everything moves and slides in between, is it not a task for the Secretary of State to try to prevent this from getting out of hand? It is not 100% about it, but its influence is such that it can make itself felt for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u96	We're not going over it. So that's not a start of 100%. In the end, this is a trade-off that the company has to make. We will, of course, always look at the company's movements from the point of view of networking, because you can call me on that, and I started doing that. It is important that Schiphol's hub function remains at full strength. I'm glad to see that it can be strengthened further. We will always have to test for that. Other than that, it's just tricky. Mr Graus said at the beginning of his speech that it is tempting but also dangerous to deal with situations like that. Actually, I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u97	Speaking of Mr Graus, he has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u98	I saw him standing there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u99	There are some things that are happening that we haven't really noticed. We talked about the Group Executive Committee. In the meantime, the ratio has gone to four Dutch versus ten French. A lady has been added to communications by the French. Our Mr Kooijman has been replaced by a Frenchman. What will happen to Mr Gräber? We have talked about this a few times. On the board of Commissioners, the number of Dutch remained four, but then went from fourteen to fifteen Commissioners. That is, of course, also a way to undermine the control of the Dutch! It seems that a third employee representative has also been added on the French side, whereas the Netherlands does not have one at all. So it's not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u100	You have a fair question, as far as I can judge, but the Secretary of State has just indicated that the questions of governance will be dealt with by the Minister of Finance. I therefore assume that he will answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u101	He's going to serve Mr. Graus completely!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u102	I also said this in addition to what my colleague Van Helvert just asked about that influence. This is an important addition, which is part of this. We're gonna forget!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u103	You'll get an answer in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u104	The Secretary of State was ready if I did. I had one more question. The Secretary of State quite rightly says: look at the evil outside world and do not just pay attention to what is happening in the house at Air France-KLM. I think that is, of course, a valid point, because I made it. The Secretary of State is also looking at the market. She looks at them, too. Does she share my concern about the way in which the company now stands and operates, with it seems to be a restraining function for the French? British Airways has been able to transform into another company, together with Iberia, Aer Lingus and Vueling. Net profit was 1.2 billion euros in the third quarter of 2015. Those companies have made or are making the battle for the future, but it seems Air France-KLM is in danger of missing the boat. That's the big worry. That does not mean that we can now say from a to z how it should be done, but as far as political pressure is possible in Paris, it should be maximum to push the company a bit forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u105	I repeat what I started: for both parties, both for Paris and Amsterdam, there is a bitter need to reduce costs and increase productivity, if you want to win the competition worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u106	Thank you, then the Minister of Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u107	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has answered most of the questions in detail. For me, questions remain about the company's governance and capital position. The last question was whether the Minister had an emergency brake. I don't have to tell you, but the people at home might still think that the Dutch State is a shareholder in Air France-KLM. That's not true. From the start, the French government has a shareholder role in Air France-KLM. We only have shares in KLM, so in the daughter. We have a 5.9% share in KLM and private investors 0.9%. All the other shares of our company KLM so we talk about it and are rightly held by Air France-KLM. Some have partly placed their economic ownership in two administrative offices for reasons related to landing rights, but the actual shareholder control is at crucial points in Air France-KLM. KLM's results are therefore consolidated in the results and report of the holding company. The holding company also receives the vast majority of dividends when they are there. It's important to keep an eye on this. When you talk about it, you have to understand your position. Our position in KLM was not very different in the past. We have never been a majority shareholder of KLM. For the merger some say "take over"; I will leave that in the middle for a moment, we had a 14% share in KLM. Now that's 6%. Mr Graus says that the French have bought up. That's true. The French first had 15.88% in Air France-KLM and now have 17.58%. A small part of it was bought in connection with control. A law has been passed in France, not specifically for this company. If you hold shares for more than two years as a patient investor, this will give you additional control rights, unless the shareholders' meeting decides not to apply that law. In order to avoid this, the French government has bought shares from this company and also from a few other large companies in order to avoid the blocking of that French law by the AVA. It worked. That law therefore applies throughout France and also to Air France-KLM. Did this harm KLM's position? I don't believe that. Is that a reason for the Dutch State to become a shareholder, which we are not in the holding company Air France-KLM? We don't think so. Could there be other arguments? For example, the company is not in a good position or there are problems and perhaps shareholdership is a good way forward. Then we always look at whether this serves the public interest. Is it necessary to ensure the public interest of Schiphol, the hub and the role of KLM in this? Would the shareholding in the holding company have added value? We do not think that is the case at the moment. The Secretary of State has made it very clear what needs to be done in all parts of the holding company and not only in France. I very much agree with her. If you follow this debate, you'd think the problem is Air France-KLM Air France. When I look as a shareholder at the business results and at similar large companies, I see that the problem of Air France-KLM is not at all in Paris. We have a common enemy and it is largely outside Europe. That's where the competitors are. The company has to adapt to that. This is an inevitable, joint task for the French leg and the Dutch leg. You can say that we've done so much and they've done too little. There's still a tree to build on. The Secretary of State mentioned the figures of what has already happened in terms of jobs. We can see that France has done much more in absolute terms and also in relative terms, in terms of jobs which have since disappeared. However, much more needs to be done. What needs to be achieved in terms of cost efficiency per year? Both perform not enough at this time. KLM has done better than Air France in the past year, but they are both below their own targets. It's not good enough. All competitors are doing the same thing: cost reduction, cost reduction, cost reduction. So you don't just have to keep up with your competitors, but you have to catch up with them. None of that is on shareholdership and the enemy is not in France. In fact, we have a common challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u108	It's a wonderful lecture from the minister. I agree to a large extent with him when he says that the greatest enemy is outside and not inside, but that this debate was not requested for that little bit inside. We're sitting here talking about that little bit inside, because we can also say something about that. I would also like to request a debate on that other part, outside. However, this debate is about the internal struggle, and it is a cause for concern to me that, on 9 February, Mr De Juniac announced that the new plans could be accompanied by cuts in the French section. At a time like this, I think that this is going to be very difficult, because this does not encourage the Dutch branch to take that extra step that may have to be done. I'd like to get a reaction to that. So I'm just gonna focus on the inner part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u109	You need to know that context, or else you're doing the wrong thing. That's why it's so important what the Secretary of State said. What needs to be done in terms of adaptation, austerity and cost reduction must be done in both parts. Mr Van Helvert is concerned about progress in France. That's what the Secretary of State and I do. Over the past four years, more has happened in France in terms of less FTE, also relatively, than in the Netherlands. So, yeah, guys... I'm sorry. I'm not allowed to address the Chamber like that. I don't know De Juniac's quote, but the Secretary of State and I will use all our contacts. I also often have contact with Minister Macron of Economic Affairs, who holds the shares of Air France/KLM. My colleague very much agrees that this company should put itself in order. The State can't do that, not from the outside, and certainly not with the limited stock ownership we have. So the Juniac doesn't have to slow down, it's got to kick in. We will continue to give him that message. We really need to distinguish between the board and the executive committee. The board has four Dutch chairs and the Chamber knows the Dutch. That's Van Leede and Van Wijk their term expires this year. Hartman, whose term expires in 2017, and of course also government commissioner Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, who was reappointed last year. Those chairs remain Dutch. The comment has been made that the board would have been extended to include additional workers' representatives. This is again French legislation and it is therefore not specific to weaken the Dutch position in this company. A new French law has been passed. We can find all kinds of things, but that is not what we are discussing at the moment. I have spoken with my colleague from Economic Affairs about whether the Dutch can join the board to represent the Dutch workers. That's not out of the question. That conversation's still going on. I think that's fair. But there has not been an additional worker commissioner on the board to mitigate the influence of the Dutch. It is a national law in France which applies to large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u110	It's good to hear that Dutch stay. I thank the Minister for that answer. However, the question is whether the government has any contact with the four Dutch in the board. Of course, that happens to the government commissioner, but also to the other three? Is there coordination and alignment, or could it be better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u111	I do not feel in a position to evaluate the functioning of the Dutch in the board. I'm not gonna appoint them either. The cabinet is about the appointment of Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. We're very pleased with him, which is why we re-appointed him. Yeah, he's in very regular contact with him. He's on the phone with the Secretary of State and he's on the phone with me when it's more about governance-like business. We talk all the time. We also regularly have in the cabinet with the most concerned administrators. The Minister for Economic Affairs is also present and the Prime Minister.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We often have direct contact with the board and Commissioners, including KLM, of course. So there is intensive consultation. If we have to, we'll just grab the phone and talk to our French colleagues. That affair is, at least as far as I'm concerned, fine. If there's any trouble, we'll call each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u112	I hear French law here and French law, but of course that's what they do. Let's face it. They do it all very handy, but they do eat us the cheese from the bread and we shouldn't want that. I think I remember there once were six seats for Dutch people and now there are only four. I understand that a commitment is that these four will in any case remain in Dutch hands, even if Mr Gräber leaves immediately. Can the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u113	This is the misunderstanding that broke into it. I am talking about the board and Mr Graus is talking about a member of the executive committee. There are no fixed agreements on Dutch or French. That's got to be quality. I would like to add that the board of Air France-KLM itself also thinks that although there are no fixed seats for Dutch people, the fact is that the composition of the group and the fact that you have one big leg in France and one big leg on Schiphol is also important in the executive committee, the executive management of the company, have Dutch members. However, there are no fixed seats or a seat distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u114	I have talked about both, including in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u115	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u116	I have really talked about the Supervisory Board and the Group Executive Committee. Both have only four Dutch left. The point is that that Group Executive Committee was six first, I believe. Why is that number not being reduced? I understand it doesn't have to be all alike. I also understand that Air France is a bit bigger and wants to have some more seats, but it can't be that we're about to lose more seats there. I'd still like to have a guarantee for that. Otherwise, I'm considering tabling a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u117	There really is a difference between the executive level and the board. About the board's appointments. The Netherlands has four seats. It was, and it's gonna stay that way. If there is an extension for workers, then we could ask whether it would be logical to do the same for Dutch workers and so on. However, those four seats are safe, ready. The executive committee is another story. That's what quality is all about. I think that's the most important thing in such a large company. It is important that there are also sensors, knowledge and networks in Dutch part of the company. The fact that there are Dutch people in it is therefore important. If the number were to decrease further, I share Mr Graus' concern. That would simply not be good, because such an important part of the group is based in the Netherlands. However, there are no guarantees. Mr Graus may table motions, but we will not give him that guarantee. We have no control over that at all. I share his view that it is important that at executive level too the Dutch can bring in their vision, network and knowledge of the Dutch situation. They just need to be inserted, even at that level. Mr Graus's speech also began with the statement that we let ourselves eat the cheese of bread. I just don't understand. If you look back on the development of KLM since the companies have been put together, you can see that it has just done an excellent job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u118	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u119	That's right. I share that with the Minister. KLM has been doing an excellent job for decades, and that is precisely our great concern. We had a very nice letter about the evaporation of own capital, with a very nice explanation. I think we are about to pay a large part of what is not happening in France. All those millions of costs of these strikes and those powerful organizations there, if we're not careful, we'll all be on KLM's plate. That's my big concern. Let me come back to what I was talking about. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb inderdaad een motie liggen.]] It's not about the board of directors. Of course I didn't. I do have a motion in my hand on this Group Executive Committee, because I think it would be better to negotiate there. We can really make that request to the government. They can try to negotiate, can't they? There's nothing wrong with that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u120	I can give you a pre-advisation: we are not going to do that. It is important that the Dutch leg is there at the executive level, also because of the knowledge, experience and network in the Netherlands. That will also be emphasised by the Secretary of State if there is reason to do so, but we are not going to negotiate it. It just doesn't work that way. Quality comes first. And yes, there must be enough Dutch people in that, but there are no fixed numbers and no fixed seats and we are not going to negotiate them. It's just not gonna happen like that. Furthermore, Air France-KLM said in the press that it is his intention to keep the number of Dutch people at that level and not to change the relationship there. That seems to me to be a positive indication. We're gonna follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u121	I have an enlightening question, because otherwise the wrong picture will arise that it is very important that we have enough Dutch people in the executive committee. If, for example, we have six or seven Dutch people with a heavy socialist background, with nothing wrong with them, who have totally different ideas than what we would like for KLM, could we theoretically have a reverse effect? Could that mean the company's downfall? Is every Dutchman in a position to ensure good management, which Mr Graus considers so important? Doesn't that motion actually achieve the opposite?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u122	I cannot, of course, share the view that a socialist cannot, by definition, run a business. If that is Mrs Belhaj's question, then the answer is no. If her question is whether quality should be paramount, then the answer is yes. That's how I started. I said, the people of the executive committee should just be of good quality. This is in the interests of the whole company, including KLM. I also said that I think it is important that the Dutch knowledge, experience and the Dutch network are also present, because a large part of the company is there. Every company understands that. That's just business interest. If we do not understand that, we will explain it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u123	The Minister nicely states that there are all kinds of laws and regulations in France, which are not so much aimed at KLM as at all kinds of companies in the general sense. But doesn't he illustrate exactly the concern that prevails here in the Chamber? Because France has this culture in order to ensure that French interests prevail in all places. The Secretary of State already referred to it: we are so crazy that we give the Authority the free hand to see if Schiphol and KLM are not helping each other too much. You should come to France sometime! That is precisely what the whole structure is aimed at helping each other as much as possible. Doesn't the fact that the French have that kind of regulation make sense, not that we have to be extremely alert? The Minister pointed out that there are many enemies. Doesn't the French state first take care of Paris and everything related to it, so that KLM may be the child of the account? Does the Minister share the concern that I am particularly concerned about; not so much towards KLM implicitly as the whole culture of the French state and its business?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u124	No, I don't share that. If that were the case, KLM would have been structurally backward over the past ten years. The opposite is the case. However, the problem in France is that, given the social environment and the role of trade unions, it is much slower and more difficult to carry out important reforms in such a company. We can see that now. Nevertheless, looking back on the past four years, relatively more jobs have been lost and cut off than at KLM. That was necessary and inevitable. So it's possible. It's been difficult. It goes with a lot of drama sometimes. We find that strange in the Dutch polder model. It's possible, and it has to be. That's how I look at it. By the way, Air France is a French company, which is governed by French law. We can find all kinds of things, but I do not think that is Mr Monasch's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u125	The Minister pointed out that we need to see where the problem really is; the enemy is not so much in Paris, but elsewhere. If you see that the French have so many problems in making their business lean-and-mean, the concern of my group, which I am testing here with many, is that, if it takes too long, the French State will put the protection structures it has built for its business into a stronger position. Where are the Dutch government heading towards the KLM part of that holding company?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u126	We never owned KLM. We're not now. We have a small share. The French also do not own Air France, or Air France-KLM. They also have a minority share in this. The French, of course, also look at the strategic importance of their airport and their largest carrier, just as we do. I maintain the view that there is a common goal, a common enemy or competitor outside the company and a common agenda to be rolled out. Yes, we have to make sure that it also happens on the French side, because that part is so big that it would, of course, have an impact on the company as a whole if nothing would happen there. That is Mr Monasch's concern. Contrary to the picture that some people have here, something is happening on the French side. It is too slow, but it has also been too slow at KLM in recent years. We are very proud of KLM. We may not want to hear that KLM has also made the adjustments and the cost savings too slow. KLM has also failed to achieve its own target of a cost reduction of 1.5 percentage points over the past year. So there's got to be a tooth on both sides. Once again, the competitors do. We must look after the real competitor and not just be concerned with internal relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u127	At the same time, Commissioner Bulc says that she does not want to ban foreign parties, but wants us to look for new markets ourselves. If, through state aid, countries in the Middle East get their airlines on the European market, we are simply fighting a rearguard fight. The same applies to Ryanair in a different way. So there is a common enemy, but he is not being fought; not by the government and not by the companies themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u128	Mr Smaling really needs to have that debate with the Secretary of State, otherwise I will come to her area of policy. That does not help the Chamber and certainly does not benefit the debate. I note, however, that other major European carriers are doing better. That is a fact, to which Mr Elias also referred.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u129	Mr Smaling, I think the Minister is right to make a point. You can ask your question again in the second term. It is up to the Secretary of State to answer that. We're not gonna change pennies all the time. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u130	Then I'll ask my follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u131	It's about the minister's policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u132	Yes. I want to know whether there is an ideal shareholdership, because the Minister mentioned the share of KLM and the share of the French holding company. Is there a level of shareholdership that would be ideal to have a degree of control as a whole that also offers sufficient power to influence the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u133	For us, the fact that we are a shareholder in KLM and that the structure is as it is, including the administration offices, has everything to do with landing rights. Landing rights are laid down in all kinds of treaties that the Netherlands has. For this it is important that it is a Dutch company. This was designed by the two Dutch administrative offices and by a part Dutch shareholdership. That makes it a Dutch company. That has been the main motivation, and it is valid to this day, to be a shareholder in KLM. Given the situation in the company, shareholdership in Air France-KLM from the Dutch State does not add anything at all at the moment. The problem has to be solved within the company. If we were to buy 5%, 10%, or, like the French, an even greater share, the problem would not have been solved. There is no liquidity problem either. The company doesn't fall over, it doesn't have a financing problem. The problem lies in efficiency; competition must be won. The shareholdership is much more concerned with the relationship with the bilateral agreements and landing rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u134	However, I would like to have a response from the Minister to what Professor Jaap de Wit, Professor of Transport Economy at the University of Amsterdam, said. I'm sure the Minister will know him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u135	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u136	The best man states that Air France is too log and too conservative and KLM's fractured leg. There are still a few people, but I'll just mention this one. I understand what the Minister means by saying that we have to watch out for outside, the Turks and the United Arab Emirates, the airlines and the airports there. I understand all that, but now it's about the debacle between KLM and Air France. These things are actually said by experts. Professor Jaap de Wit is not the first to be ignored.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u137	I'm afraid to say the latter. I don't know the very high school gentleman. I gave my analysis. There is no debacle between Air France and KLM. Air France and KLM both need to tighten the belt. They have to deliver higher quality at lower costs. They must do so very quickly, because competition is going very fast. It doesn't help with the finger to one or the other pointer. Mr Elias has asked for a stroman in the Air France-KLM direction. That's how I understood the question, isn't it? I don't know what it's about. I don't know. There has been talk of a strategist from the French Government. A person who worked as a staff manager at the French Prime Minister's Ministry has indeed switched to the position of the company's HR Director. From what I heard from the newspaper, this person had a resume that fits with it. I didn't see that as a "stroman." I assume it was about that appointment. So that's just a qualified person with experience in that field. Mr Elias also asked whether the power position was not lean and worrying. Yes and no. I'll start with KLM. KLM has no negative equity. Air France-KLM's equity capital was negative at the end of 2014. By the end of 2015, this had increased to 273 million. KLM's equity was at the end of 2013.I thought Mr Elias was talking about it........................................................................................................................................................ We sent a letter about that. This has a lot to do with the valuation of pension liabilities versus pension assets. Both are naturally affected by low interest rates, but on balance in a negative way. Of course, low equity is worrying in the longer term, but as I said, there is no liquidity problem. KLM generates sufficient cash flow so that all creditors can be paid and investments can also be made. This also complies with the banking agreements. So there are no problems in that respect. For the long term, power must of course simply be strengthened again. It would also help with pensions if interest rates would rise. That's what I wanted to say about the power position. Mr Smaling has asked another question about the perpetual subordinated bond. Can it be added to own funds? The public annual report, which he has read on record, reports that the holding company issued a perpetual subordinated bond of 600 million in April 2015. According to accounting rules, that is own funds, because it is perpetual. It is therefore indeed classified as own funds. This has strengthened the balance sheet. Finally, Mrs Belhaj asked about the emergency brake, the emergency scenario. No, I didn't. I did say earlier that expanding our equity interests or taking a share in Air France-KLM does not serve any public interest at the moment. That does not touch at the heart of the problem. At the same time, if the company really gets into trouble in the future and cannot finance itself anymore, it would be conceivable that we could temporarily, in any way, ensure that the company stays alive while the plan for reorganisation and restructuring, which is still needed, would be speeded up. However, that really is an emergency scenario. I've said that before in the media. I do not rule that out because of the enormous strategic importance of KLM and Schiphol. But now taking shares in one or the other would really contribute nothing at all. It might even take the pressure off and give the signal that the government will put the money in. The government is not going to put the money in, but the government will prevent KLM, and Schiphol with it, from causing damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u138	Does the Minister see the latter, which we all hope will not be necessary, as a major operation similar to the rescue of the banks? What is the difference in principle with Fokker or DAF, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u139	This is in the analysis of the importance of KLM in maintaining and operating the entire network for Schiphol. If Mr Elias doesn't share the analysis, we shouldn't. We don't have to make any decisions about that right now. However, the opinion of the cabinet is that KLM is a very important, if not indispensable link for the position of Schiphol. So in the blackest scenario, but it's not going to go that far, because the companies are going to save costs, modernise, invest, and we're all going to continue to press it at some point to consider whether we're going to let that happen. Then there are a lot of choices to make. Even then, it has not been said that shareholdership is the way forward, but we will not remain passively on our hands. That's all I can say about emergency scenarios. We all, including the company itself, have the greatest interest in it and the responsibility to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u140	I was charmed by the Minister's comment that KLM did not achieve the goal of cutting budget cuts, nor did Air France; there is no point pointing fingers at each other. I think the Minister has a point there. In the interview I mentioned earlier, the interview published in ThePostOnline on 19 February with Mr De Juniac, Mr De Juniac says that there is still a possibility that the austerity plans for the French branch will be deleted. He says we shouldn't rule that out. Indeed, we should not be pointing the finger, but does the Minister see, with us, that in the event that the French cut the cut, the motivation at KLM and certainly its staff gets very far away from doing another step?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u141	I'm not going to respond to a quote that I haven't read and which I may not be able to interpret at all. The Secretary of State has indicated what the further plans are for the French leg, including in terms of deletion of FTEs and cost savings. We will not miss an opportunity to point out to our French partners that it must be done on both sides of the group, including on the French side. The latter is something we really stress. When I speak with my fellow shareholder, the French Minister for Economic Affairs, he fully agrees. Minister Macron also says: they really need to tackle their own problems, they need to get through this. In France too, if you delete so many jobs, it must be done in a socially responsible way. That's not the point at all. That's what we do in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, we do not have the Anglo-Saxon approach to "you can leave." At the KLM it also happens in a neat way. However, it is inevitable to ensure the future of the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u142	The good thing is that as a shareholder, as Minister here today again, you say very clearly what you think of the task for KLM and Air France. The question is whether your colleague, who also says this to you, is also 'and square public'... Oh, chairman, excuse. I'm asking the same question through you now. The question is whether...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u143	Otherwise you'll have to report to the secretary tomorrow!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u144	No, I wouldn't want that at all, Mr. Chairman. I've had to do that a number of times. No, that's... now I have to pick up what I wanted to ask the minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u145	Or my colleague, too, in public...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u146	Yes! Thank you, Minister. Uh, Mr. Chairman, I thank the Minister for helping me now. Does the French minister do the same? The question is really: how can we strengthen the Minister, the Cabinet, or more motivate him to get that statement, also made by the French Minister, to Air France? That is where the opposite seems to be said publicly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u147	I sincerely believe that the French too understand very well the need to put the company in order. It needs to be much more cost-effective and the supply needs to be better quality. The latter has to be the same. There is therefore also a need to invest. All the conversations show that. The implementation of this type of reorganisation in a French company is accompanied by more gun clatter than in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands there is a tradition in which unions and employers try to come out together. Sometimes we can't, and then we have a strike at the gate. Very often, however, we try to come out well. That doesn't mean nothing's happening in France. I keep underlining that. I also continue to emphasise to the French that it is a joint task. I don't want any discussion about whether it should be broken up. And I'm not saying the French do this and the French do that. It's a joint task. My experience with my French interlocutors is that they see it that way. And yes, sometimes that's difficult. And yes, France has its special culture between social partners. But something's happening. It's gonna have to be pressed. Mr De Juniac also knows that. He agrees with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u148	This put an end to the government's first term. I would like to give the floor to Mr Graus for the second term of office. He has one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u149	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing three brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to negotiate a more balanced distribution of power within the Air France-KLM-Group Executive Committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[requests the Government to ensure that no part of the share package and control of Transavia Netherlands falls into French hands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-242]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-243]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u150	100% KLM. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider how and with what financial coverage the State participation in KLM can be equal to the rate of French participation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-244]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u151	Mr President, this is possible. I was just discussing this with a colleague. The Minister of Finance has promised. I may be able to hold the motion. If I have understood the Minister correctly, perhaps the Minister could listen in instead of talking to the Secretary of State, he said he has an emergency brake and that he can intervene if there is anything. That's never been promised by pastors. So that would be some kind of commitment and I might be able to withdraw the motion. But I'll find out in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u152	Clear. Thank you very much, Mr Graus. Mr Van Helvert has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u153	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. The concern has not been overcome in one debate, especially since I see that the cabinet actually sees all kinds of isolated things. The cabinet sees the Group Executive Committee, the Supervisory Board or Transavia as all loose things, which can always change and then go from Amsterdam to France or from KLM to Air France. The Cabinet sees it all as loose things. The feeling that I have is that it's all loose slices. But they're slices of the same sausage, which is KLM's authority. So I actually had a point to table a motion about broad. Anyway, the Minister doesn't want that. So I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is important for the Netherlands that KLM retains an independent position within the Air France-KLM group;]] [[noting that KLM's interconnection network and partners are of great importance for international accessibility, switching, employment and the Dutch economy;]] [[noting that the Dutch State is a shareholder of KLM;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear to the French Government and the holding company of Air France-KLM that the influence of the Netherlands and KLM should in no way diminish within the holding company,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-245]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u154	Mr. Chairman. This has been a nice little debate. Thanks to everyone who contributed to it. It was also useful to set the clock equal again, as far as possible on such a spicy subject as this. I have one motion, while I'm here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Transavia Holland may be directly covered by the holding company of Air France-KLM;]] [[Whereas this may have adverse effects on KLM, both in terms of employment and support for KLM's network;]] [[speaks out to fully support the commitment to retain Transavia Holland under the flag of KLM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-246]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u155	And as a socialist, if I will ever be in charge of an important company again, I do not know, I say to Mrs Belhaj. But who knows what the minister has in store for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u156	We'll see. Mrs Belhaj has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u157	Mr. Chairman. It was by no means my intention to insult socialists. So I apologize for that. It was just an example of how things can run. But I'd better stop talking about it. I found it a pleasant and above all enlightening debate. It has been made clear that Air France-KLM is an ordinary company in the holding company and that there is a great political commitment to this. The cases have been duly appointed, by both the Minister and the Secretary of State. I have a good feeling about it and can continue to rely on the people with knowledge of business operations. I also have confidence following the comment on Transavia, with the understanding that I hope that the Secretary of State will inform us as soon as there are any developments. Hopefully these developments will be for the better and not for the worse. The role of shareholders must remain that way at the moment, but I also like the fact that tonight has been confirmed, also in response to D66's question, that there is an emergency brake. I had hoped that this would help Mr Graus sleep a little better tonight, but perhaps he will need these motions to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u158	Thank you. Then finally... no, Mr. Elias has waived his term. I assume the rulers would like to take a look at the motions. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u159	Mr. Chairman. I will give an opinion on the motion on item No. 243 and the motion in part No. 246. They're both about Transavia. I think I made it clear in the debate what my position is. Mrs Belhaj specifically asked: if developments occur again, will you keep us informed? That's what I'm telling you. However, I must advise against both motions that have been tabled. In his motion in part No. 243 calls on Mr Graus to ensure that no part of the stock package falls into French hands. That's basically impossible, because I don't have the perseverance. It is therefore a request that I cannot make in reality. Mr Smaling has taken part in the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). However, it also states that the commitment must be to... It is true that both the considerations and the question put by Mr Smaling cannot be answered in this way in advance. That is not because we will not pay attention, because of the Dutch interest, what is happening around Transavia. However, this importance has a direct relationship with the question of how Transavia, for example, can ensure that the network function of Schiphol remains as strong as possible, and of course KLM's. That's the test we're doing. If that's what it takes, we're on top of it. Nor will I hesitate to enter into the discussion, but that is something other than the assumption that we have a perseverance power with not only an effort, but also an outcome that is certain in advance. I just can't promise that. For that reason, I must discourage both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u160	I am quite prepared to amend that motion, because the government can, of course, intervene. The Secretary of State did the same with the KLM cash. Then she also got on the plane as the first active ruler and went there. She's taken care of all of that, too. Her predecessor said she couldn't do that, but anything can. The wording "care to bear" may be very strict. I'm quite willing to ask for help with mediation so that it can't just happen. The government can do that very well. What has succeeded with the KLM cash must now succeed? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u161	I would very much like to receive credits from Mr Graus, but not if they do not come to me. I think my predecessor was still in office when that discussion took place. I traveled straight away on my first weekend, just because of Transavia. We have to stick to the facts. I know that Mr Graus himself is always very keen on that. That has shown how I am in this, but I do want to avoid making promises here that I just can't keep. It does not make much sense to change the texts of motions. I don't need that motion to do what I think is necessary if the time is right. But there isn't now. That, I think, is also important. There hasn't been any development since November. It's not a priority right now. I would therefore say: let us not turn it into one of our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u162	That's definitely a priority. If you see that the Association of Dutch Traffic Pilots, people from KLM, everyone from the top to the bottom of the workplace, and Schiphol are seriously concerned about what is going to happen to Transavia, this is really a priority. It can't be that all these people are talking out of their necks. That's impossible. I'm gonna stick with it. The compliment I gave the Secretary of State was correct. This Secretary of State went to Paris as soon as we asked. Mr Van Helvert also congratulated her on this. This is really due to this Secretary of State, so I do not see why I should suddenly assign it to another Secretary of State. I'll think about this. I will amend the motion in such a way that the government can at least mediate in ensuring that no stock packages or control of Transavia are held in French hands and that 100% KLM remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u163	Again, if you need to go to Paris, I'll just go. I've shown that before, and I will continue to show it, but I don't need a motion for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u164	Mr. Chairman. In his motion in part No. 242 calls on Mr Graus to negotiate a more balanced distribution of power within the executive committee. I think the executive committee should be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u165	Wait a minute. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says that, should this happen, she intervenes and is therefore willing to go to Paris? Then, of course, I can withdraw the motion, because then I have the promise that it will intervene when something happens. That's what happened when I sat down. That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u166	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stand up for a while so I can look Mr. Graus in the eye. It is precisely in the words that Mr Graus used. I can't intervene. I don't have a say. What I can do is exert political pressure if the Dutch government were to be convinced that the holding company makes choices to the detriment of KLM's network function and thus of Schiphol. If that type of choice is at issue, I will of course go to Paris with haste; no doubt. That's really something other than intervention. We are not in a position to intervene. I think I've made perfectly clear what I'm doing, if that's what I need to do. That really is a different debate from what we are currently having.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u167	Since I've known the Secretary of State for a few years, I'm prepared to withdraw that motion. I know that if anything happens to the detriment of KLM, Schiphol and all the actors I have mentioned, the Secretary of State is going to do her best to prevent it. That's all I actually asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u168	Well, at least we'll agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u169	Since the Graus motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u170	I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u171	This is a piece of the Secretary of State's craftsmanship as you rarely see it. I thought it was really political craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u172	Mr. Elias, what's the matter with you now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u173	Then it is also obvious that Mr Smaling's motion at No. 246 withdraws.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u174	That is what Mr Smaling himself is about. I don't see him moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u175	I can see the logic for that, but this aside. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 242 is about a balanced distribution of power within the executive committee. That must be a well-structured, high-quality group of executive managers. The fact that this includes Dutch knowledge and experience is certainly important for this group. The approach of a balanced distribution of power, as if it were a power struggle, does not appeal to me. We're not gonna do this. We are not going to negotiate a "balanced distribution of power" at that level. So I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. 244, also by Mr Graus, requests a State participation in KLM equal to the percentage of the French. That's really impossible. In fact, the French have gotten it out of my mind now: 95% or 94% of the shares in KLM. Mr Graus says that the share of the Dutch State must be equal to that of the French. You understand my problem with that; that is not possible. More important, of course, is that an increase in the share of the Netherlands in KLM or at holding level does not contribute in any way to the solution needed for the group and the two parts. We've talked about that extensively. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u176	That is why such a motion always says: 'hear the debate'. You only have one minute, so you need to keep that as short as possible. I can't possibly explain it in such a way that the Minister can't catch me there. The Minister, of course, knows what I was referring to, let that be quite clear, because we have debated it. I may change the motion, but I'll put her to the vote. If it ever goes well and a parliamentary inquiry comes, you as a Chamber must ensure that you have taken all the responsibility you can take, with everything within your capabilities. Well, at least I did. Others will have a wet butt seam, but I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u177	In order to be able to make a balanced assessment of a motion, it is good for the government to be able to understand what it says. I really read: to take an equal percentage in KLM. Perhaps Mr Graus means Air France-KLM. The motion is still being modified. As the motion is now, I'll be sure to advise her not to. I think that after the adjustment I will still discourage her, because it is about whether to participate, take more shares in KLM or the holding company, also contributes somewhat to the solutions that are needed. That is not the case. The motion in part No. 245 of Mr Van Helvert noted that the Dutch share of the executive committee and the Board of Directors has decreased in the past year. In the Board of Directors, the Netherlands simply has the established four seats. I thought that at the moment the President of the Supervisory Board of KLM, currently acting as an acting member, is also present on the board. In this way too, the link has been strengthened. No fixed appointments have been made about the executive committee. There are no Dutch seats and no French seats. That's where the quality has to be well secured. Knowledge about and experience in the Netherlands is a quality aspect. Then I come to the operative part, in which the government is asked to make it clear that the influence of the Netherlands and KLM must not be reduced in any way within the holding company. The Netherlands has, strictly speaking, no formal influence, at least not by way of shareholdership, on the governance at the level of the holding company. No, I'm not saying that right. Jaap de Hoop Scheffer is of course represented as government commissioner. There is no question that that would be under pressure. Those four Dutch chairs are not at all in question and are retained. In the executive committee there is no fixed key and there are no Dutch or French chairs. I do not think that this motion makes any sense and is not correct in its wording. That's why I'm betraying her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u178	I'm pulling my motion to part No. 246 in! 246 in! 246 in! 246 in! 246 in! 246 in! 246 in! 246 in! 246 in! 246
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u179	Since the Smaling motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-12.u180	The remaining three motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would like to thank the directors for coming and the Members for their contribution to the debate.
