ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-13.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have not proposed a budget debate on Security and Justice, but now that the opportunity arises, our group would like to draw attention to an issue which is important to us, but also to our country, namely the strengthening of the security chain, consisting of police, justice and justice. Every Dutchman can expect the government to ensure that criminals are not only caught, but also arraigned and tried. Unrighteousness must not prevail. Crime must be punished. A well-functioning and interplayed security chain of national police, Public Prosecutor's Office and justice is crucial to this, at first sight, so simple and obvious need of citizens. There has been a lot of talk in this house about the safety chain and the funds to be made available for this. The CDA Group notes that this is mainly about costs, production, management and efficiency, and so little about quality and structural reform of the chain. We see that extra money is being released, recently by this Minister at the 2017 Millions Note, but at the same time there is also serious savings and an overarching vision seems to be missing, despite the Minister's recent letter implementing the Bikker motion. It seems attractive to allow us to be guided by the falling crime rates of what I would easily call "traditional crime." This is a development that we must not let go to sleep. Cybercrime and terror are newer forms of crime, which often escape the sight, but which can have a potentially highly destructive effect on society. Without responding to fears, it is not a question of whether or not our country is dealing with a serious case of cybercrime or terrorism. The prevailing crime scene, based on figures of more traditional crime such as home invasion and car and bike theft, is no longer a very incomplete one. It is part of what we see in reality, while crime also takes place above and below the visible. Our organisations are still highly organized on the basis of that outdated image. Please understand, the number of car and bicycle thefts and home and car burglaries is still large in our country, too large, and can still have a lot of impact on citizens' sense of security. But, and I want to support that today, strengthen the awareness, there's more. Whether it concerns communication networks, care, emergency services, banks or traffic control, if critical infrastructure fails, it has major social consequences, then the dikes break. It is a public secret that our Dutch safety chain does not have the professional level, or at least does not yet, to meet the current challenges. This requires first of all a recognition of the facts. A recognition that does justice to the actual extent of the problems. We can't just make it through ad hoc investments. We need a well-considered plan to bring the chain to the right level in the years to come. In doing so, it helps to take seriously the growing sounds of the national police themselves, of the prosecutor and of the judiciary and not to trivialize them. The safety chain has many dimensions and layers, which I do not want to discuss in detail here. My group regards it as the task of the government, that is to say this Minister and Secretary of State, to present a coherent picture and to draw up the route for the coming years. Earlier this year, when dealing with the 2016 budget states on 5 July, I challenged the Minister, and I am sure he will remember that, otherwise he will see it as his iPhone to leave this cabinet period a legacy for the next cabinet period. The Minister had this challenge when I quote 'accepted with joy'. Last week, the Minister informed our Chamber about the implementation of the Bikker motion and thus gave an insight into the task facing the various partners in the criminal justice chain in the coming years. My group appreciates this. However, if the next cabinet formation is to be successful, more is needed. First of all, the will and willingness to invest structurally in the sustainable strengthening of the quality and quantity of the chain. The CDA Group, including its draft electoral programme, is prepared to do so. This programme aims to provide a solid basis: a district agent per 5,000 inhabitants. District agents ensure stability and are, together with citizens, the eyes and ears in the neighbourhoods, where all forms of crime originate, from radicalisation to undermining, from terror to cybercrime. It is high time that this commitment, which has been a long time ago, was finally fulfilled. In addition to the visible crime that is increasingly disrupting our modern society, there is an immense development of a largely invisible and elusive "inconvenient truth." This growing part of the crime goes beyond our field of view, in the cloud and underground: financial fraud, cybercrime, drug trafficking on the dark web or crime around bitcoins. In order to combat this effectively, other skills are required, well-trained financial investigators and data analysts who have long-established technological resources at their disposal. Police and justice urgently need to be brought to the time. Prognosis that at least 50% of crime has a digital component or will soon know it is not considered excessive. For the entire chain, including justice, cybercrime in all its forms is currently a major concern. Just supplementing it with a few specialists in not enough. Today's specialty is tomorrow's generalism. Whether it's the point of contact of the intake officer who has to handle a cybercrime report properly, the Police Team High Tech Crime, or the prosecutors in charge of tracking and arraignment and the judge who needs to find something about this, we're talking about a big problem with a lot of impact here. At the moment, there is insufficient capacity and knowledge in chain-wide. That is why my question to the Minister is: does my challenge from 5 July until the establishment of a legacy still satisfy him with joy? If so, does he not think it is right for this cabinet to have a multi-annual investment programme drawn up for the next cabinet period, so that the upcoming formation can be nailed down in order to sustainably strengthen our security chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-13.u3	Mr. Chairman. In particular, my contribution will address the implications of the successive budgets of V and J for the current four-year government period, in the light of the state of the rule of law. First of all, I will deal with the state of the police, then briefly with access to the law and the position of the judiciary and conclude with a reflection on the state of the rule of law as a whole, with the central theme: the confidence of citizens in the government. Looking back at the beginning of that period, the main feature of the government's policy was first and foremost a reduction in the order of 1 billion. Secondly, it should be noted that the government has, as it were, made blind cuts. The government parties did not, or hardly, ask in advance whether the planned cuts were feasible and, moreover, did not take into account the impact of the cuts in society. This combination of factors of severe austerity and lack of vision has resulted in the government's goals, including in financial terms, being far from being met, and there is also damage. I will begin, partly in conjunction with the previous speaker, with the police, probably the section of V and J that has been hit hardest. Last year, on the basis of police developments in 2015, I noticed that the situation of the bad guy had gotten worse. The number of negative calamities grew and the NRC concluded in December 2015 that the Justice budget was "a crackling vehicle'. Against this background, it would be expected that the new Justice Minister would put things in order and deal with the problems thoroughly and effectively. Unfortunately, little has come of that. The Minister recently recognised in the debate with the House of Representatives that there are major problems with the police. He admitted that the absenteeism of the police is still far too high and that the efficiency measures have not been met by the police. Against the criticism from various sides in the Lower House that too much savings have been made in the police, the Minister argued that his policy was based on the establishment plan and was therefore sufficient. That's what characterizes the Minister: Apparently he attaches more importance to a plan than to the hard facts, which repeatedly show that the police organisation is in severe weather. How bad it is with that organisation, we also see when we look at the reports in the media, the reports and publications about the police over the past year. I mention some: over 6,500 police complain; police see crucial task under snow; Van der Steur does not honour promise about better ICT in the police; again security leak police system C2000; much disease in police due to stress; police need 600 million extra; superministry to the begging staff; much wrong when detectives detectives; talent leaves police; reporting line police too often virtually unreachable; structure national police seem to fail at the very basis; police union wants external investigation into corruption; decrease district agents worries; police officer on the street is proud of his work, but also extinct; the house of the police is a construction trap; police soap becomes an authority crisis; officer lacks mandatory driving training; tens of thousands of police reports are not treated. This is a gloomy picture. This picture raises the question, which I would like to put to the Minister, how it is possible that the Minister and his predecessor have still not managed to overcome the leak and reverse the negative developments in the police. I'd like to hear the Minister's answer to this. One problem in the organization I would like to go into a little more detail: the basic teams of the police. The word already says it: the foundation of the organization, the people on the street, the people on the front line as it is called. How's that going? Recently we received a beautifully thick report from the Minister: the basic teams in the national police. I read it with attention. It describes how the reinforcement of the unit in organisation envisaged by the introduction of the national police has hardly been realised, that the team chiefs of the current base teams are often overburdened and that it is almost impossible for these chiefs to lead these large teams. The report also notes that operational control in many teams is unclear. It is also remarkable to note that management is sometimes talking negatively about district agents in particular who do not participate in the renewal process, without taking into account the content of the concerns of the district agents. According to the report. If that is the current state of affairs with the national police, a few years after the introduction of the new organisation, then we believe there is a serious situation. We would like to hear whether the Minister shares this view and what concrete measures he intends to take to reverse development and how much extra money he wants to make available for it. I come now to the issue of access to justice and the position and quality of the judiciary. The developments in these areas over the last four years are, in our view, also worrying. Once again, driven primarily by austerity, the VVD/PvdA government has done a disservice to access to justice and justice, one of the fundamental principles of our rule of law. This Chamber rightly intends to make further cuts in the legal aid financed by the Franken motion. In addition, the cuts have led to unprecedented resistance for our country to the generally so calm and cautious judiciary. That's a unique situation. I refer here to the Leeuwarder Manifest and the Counter-Light Group survey. No less than 35% of the judges took part in that survey. The manifesto and the survey show how far-reaching the cuts in justice are. But they also teach us that the government obviously lacks the basic knowledge that justice is not just a cost in which the government can cut to its heart's content. I should like to remind you of the warnings we received in this Chamber a few years ago from several eminent lawyers, including the then President of the Supreme Court. They stressed that access to justice and justice is an essential part of the trias politicians and thus the basis of our democratic rule of law. The trias may cost money; you should not cut back on it as if it were a commodity, merchandise, said Mr. Corstens at the time. A similar nonchalance of state law is reflected in the KEI programme. The choice of this programme is accompanied by a considerable cut in the budget, and this cut has already been made before the KEI programme has been introduced and tested. There has been criticism on several sides, but the government has so far done nothing about it. That is why I would like the Minister's recent comment from the former attorney-general at the Supreme Court, J.W. Breedings, on the KEI programme, said: "In relation to KEI, I would like to point out that further digitisation of justice is not only logical, but also desirable and even necessary. From the very beginning, KEI has been labeled as a project with an important goal of cost savings. I think it's a mistake. Several scenarios have been calculated, which estimate how much savings KEI could generate. In my firm belief it is not going to produce this, but I do not rule out the possibility that some savings will be made in the long term. Now, however, insufficient funds have been made available to KEI, which means that financing is at the expense of other matters. In addition, the cost savings approach and the calculation of amounts in multiannual plans already take into account possible cost savings. It would have been much better suited to label digitisation as a quality-enhancing project only." I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. Is he still willing to split up the project itself and the cuts? I do not think that combination is good. The state of play on the rule of law is the following. The above shows how much the critical situation of the police and the judiciary is affecting the functioning of the rule of law. We have recently been able to experience this in this house with the bill on disciplinary justice for lawyers, notaries and bailiffs. Despite the fact that the government itself considered in 2014 in the Maat report that the costs of the case-law should be paid from the general funds, the government suddenly considered that the costs of the disciplinary proceedings prescribed by law should no longer be paid by the State but should be borne by the organisations concerned. The debate showed that the government's only real argument was to cut back on this. Another typical event in this context is the cut in the subsidy of the Dutch Association for Justice, NVvR, of €277,000 on the advisory task of the NVvR in the area of legislation. The government does not dispute that the advice of the NVvR is at a high level and is valuable. Nevertheless, for financial reasons, and in my view only for financial reasons, the government believes that this advisory function is superfluous. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he shares my view that this austerity is unwise and unnecessary. And if so, if he is still willing to return to his feet. If necessary, I shall consider tabling a motion on this point. Another example that shows the harmful effects of the combination of austerity and short-sightedness concerns the high workload in the judiciary and, as a result, the delay in justice. For several years the waiting times for judgments in different courts have been considerable. Especially in the courts of Den Bosch and Arnhem-Leeuwarden, parties have to wait for more than a year for their ruling. Questions on this matter from Parliament are systematically dismissed by the Minister with unspeakable answers or vague promises of improvement. So far, they haven't helped. The judges are not to blame for the length of the waiting period. They work hard, very hard, that's undisputed. So the solution is not to work even harder. In my opinion, this is a structural organizational problem for which the Minister is the primary responsibility. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he recognizes this problem. And if so, what concrete measures he is going to take in the short term to solve the problem. Please note that it is a problem whose consequences end up back on the citizens' plate. Because he has to wait. You can't explain to that citizen why he doesn't have a verdict after a year. This development further undermines citizens' confidence in the government. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to stand up for a solution and provide the resources needed for it. It is widely recognised that public confidence in government is an essential condition for the proper functioning of democracy. Right-wing philosopher Prof.Dr. R.M.G.E. Foqué, a member of the University of Leuven and Rotterdam, pointed out ten years ago, with a call to Montesquieu, how much that trust constitutes the necessary collateral for the security and freedom of citizens. He noted at that time that the controlled policy of dismantling and remodelling social security undermines citizens' confidence and the sense of security much more than one often seems to realize. According to Foqué, the government threatens to be widely perceived as an unreliable partner who unilaterally changes the rules of the game and reverses the funds. In particular, the elderly and chronically ill thought they could base legitimate expectations on securing a future worthy of them. One may wonder whether their existential insecurity, and not rarely their sense of distress, still sufficiently penetrates the political agenda, Professor Foqué said in 2006. After that, things haven't gotten any better, much worse. In many areas, people lose confidence in government. This is part of the destruction of the rule of law. It seems to me that the destruction of the rule of law, as we have seen in many areas in recent years, at least contributes to the decline in confidence, in other words the growing distrust of many citizens towards the government. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he shares that view. And if that is the case, I hope that it will give him the opportunity to adapt his policy on the rule of law in all its facets in order to regain the necessary confidence of the citizens. Finally, I believe that ensuring citizens' confidence in the democratic rule of law is also a task for Parliament as a co-legislator. In my opinion, Members of Parliament also have a duty to promote the democratic fundamental principles of our society in word and deed. It is precisely when Parliament takes this task seriously that the same parliament has the right, but also the duty, to call those who abhor our rule of law by rejecting, for example, independent justice, to order and to stand up for the fundamental principles of our democratic rule of law. But that also means that the government and parliament together must ensure that they have their homework in order. I have demonstrated, in the light of the current state of the rule of law, that this is, unfortunately, far from being the case. So it is high time to fix that defect. I'd like to hear how the Minister sees it. We look forward to his reaction with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with the last budget for Security and Justice in this cabinet. Looking back, we note that this ministry has been going through turbulent times. This applies both to structural reforms and to the transfer of police management that still had to take place. It also applies to the formation of national police forces, the introduction of KEI, a large number of legislative and policy changes and, unfortunately, many incidents, with the result, among other things, that this minister may close the administration. I do not think he has experienced this succession as a punishment, but the incidents themselves may point to deeper structural problems, which the Minister himself almost tripped over. Is the lack of communication, control or transparency? Does this have to do with culture or with the structure and working methods of the organisation? Or do the problems above all show that the Ministry has become out of control because of its growth and that the ambitions do not fit in with capacity? Is the Minister detachable enough to look critically at the ministry he represents? What would he bring to a formation to improve security and justice? Many signals and messages give the impression that the Ministry is almost bursting and we find that worrying. It may sound corny, but the Ministry of Security and Justice is the cornerstone of the rule of law. We must cherish this cornerstone, which shows countless examples abroad over and over again. We can even see in the European Union how little is of course a democratic rule of law. Look at developments in Hungary and Poland, where elected political leaders step by step the guarantees of a rule of law, of checks-and-balances, break down, and where citizens, judges and civil society organisations stand powerless by. Does the Minister address his colleagues in the JHA Council? Does the European rule of law now prove itself in practice? Another threat is the growing unsubstantiated criticism and attacks on the judiciary and, above all, its acceptance by society. Think of the comments on the British judges who decided that a Brexit was subject to a decision by parliament and the attacks on our southern neighbours on a judicial ruling on a visa for refugees. Unfortunately, no one could have escaped the unbridled accusation of our Dutch judges by a Member of Parliament. Some people are creating a false contradiction between democracy and independent justice. Does the Minister share our view that such debates and attacks are detrimental to our democratic rule of law and, if so, why did I not hear him say that? My group wants to see a minister of security and justice act more clearly as guardian of the rule of law in order to feed civil society debate properly. One of the characteristics of the trias politician is that the judiciary cannot interfere in that debate. That adds to the Minister's responsibility. How does the Minister look at his role in this and how does he deliver it? We would like to hear an explanation of that. cherishing the rule of law requires effective and proportionate responses to the threats to our security, but also optimal maintenance of the judicial chain. We need to ensure that all the players in it are able to exercise their skills and work well together. This requires sustainable policies, not ad hoc measures. However, the turbulent times I referred to were marked by ever-new targets and cuts. Police, prosecutor's office, justice, funded legal aid and all partners have been bribing money versus workload for years. That's taking its toll. This year, we discussed the budget and the spring note in detail, because the cuts pushed the chain partners just or almost over the edge of what was doable and acceptable. The political swell now seems to have been pushed because a few tens of millions have been added here and there. But is it right that that swell was pushed? Have the problems been solved sustainably and have the chain partners now come into a calmer sailing water? Far from it, in our opinion. The General Court has been critical of the Ministry of Security and Justice budget since 2012. According to the Court of Auditors, the financial system is not sound. According to the Court, one of the Ministry's problems is its size. The Ministry can't properly analyze how much money organizations need. And there would be too little information on the use of the money, which would make it impossible to assess whether it should be adjusted in a financial year. "We see the risk of the information being fragmented and filtered and not always landing in the right place with the right staff," says the Court. The President of the Court of Auditors said last month in the NRC: "If you bring a lot of money to a dysfunctional organization, you don't solve the problem. Then there is a good chance that money will be spent in the wrong way or that it will remain on the shelf." That awareness seems to only partially penetrate the cabinet. Indeed, a financial injection of EUR 450 million has been made into the Millions Note. But if the minister does not know where the money lands and for what purpose, it is advisable to analyse where the shoe is wringing throughout the chain. 'Cause there's a lot going on. Take the cops. It needs to cut back and at the same time carry out a reorganisation. This reorganisation lasts twice as long and is twice as expensive as planned, while the aim was to save costs and increase efficiency. Can we conclude that both have not succeeded and that the opposite has so far been achieved? In May, the General Court already spoke of a "little realistic" objective of the cabinet in view of the reorganisation combined with strict austerity. Even within almost all sections of the police themselves there is criticism of the cuts in recent years and of the far too expensive reorganisation. The national police itself mentions the risk of understaffing the units and the lack of timely achievement of savings targets. From where this can be led in practice, Mr Ruers has already mentioned a number of compelling examples. The management plan points, for example, to the police academy, the police service center and the merger of the emergency rooms. In the multiannual draft budget, too, the Court lacks a detailed link between the national objectives and the necessary financial resources. And that is a fundamental point. In the coming years, the police will need up to EUR 300 million extra in order to continue doing what they are doing. The new chief of police, Akerboom, said in March when he was sworn in that the police are suffering from "structural underfunding." The Millions note shows that the police budget for next year is EUR 221 million. An additional EUR 10 million will be allocated to the police organisation for improved equipment and ICT for the district agents. How does the Minister know that this money is well spent and that this is sufficient? Does the Minister share the concern of the Court of Auditors that an unreal burden on the organisation and its staff puts pressure on the quality of the service and can again put pressure on new budgets if they are not sufficiently secured? What else is the Minister going to do besides making additional funds available? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Court of Auditors also recently issued some intrusive recommendations on the ICT project itself. The additional investment that is currently being made is urgently needed, but there needs to be room for further renewal, particularly within the primary police process. The monitoring of ICT and accountability to the Chamber should also be better anchored. How's the Minister picking this up? Is this also accompanied by clear objectives and uniform and consistent recording of police data? Only then will we be able to see whether spending has led to the achievement of the objectives. Then, of course, there are the problems surrounding the various police officers in charge and the central works council which have discredited the police, to say the least. For GroenLinks this is the confirmation of an image that has been around for a long time, namely that there is too large a ministry that simply is not sufficiently understood and is not sufficiently controlled. Or does the Minister think he can trace it all back to incidents? In any case, the Court of Auditors is clear: there is a need for a structural improvement in the audit function, addressing breeding and working on culture. Does the Minister recognise these recommendations? What's he gonna do about it? The criticism that ambitions are not translated into manageable steps and worked out in the concrete milestone products time and money does not apply only to the police budget. Think also of the judiciary when KEI is introduced. This was also done in an organisation where the workload has been very high for years and such reorganisation can directly affect the primary work process if it is not implemented carefully and with sufficient additional support. I would like to refer to the extensive input and questions of my colleague Ruers on this point. Finally, I would like to comment on the legal aid that has been financed. In particular, the specialist social lawyer, such as social security or social insurance, criminal law or foreign law, is difficult to maintain, while this lawyer is crucial to keeping access to justice open to those most vulnerable to justice. The jurisdictions become more complex and time-consuming. It is simply not real to get another area of law involved. The continuing erosion of the legal aid financed is a major concern of my group. Costs have been reduced by as much as EUR 65 million over the last three years, while recourse to the legal aid financed has increased, at least until 2014. Both the Wolfsen Committee and the Barkhuysen Committee note that the increase in expenditure is only caused by an autonomous increase in volumes. A more flexible budget for legal aid, as proposed by the Barkhuysen Committee, would then be a more logical approach. Glad to get a response from the Minister on this. This government is talking about a generous system of subsidised legal aid, as if it could be reduced. My group believes that this is a strength and not a weakness of Dutch society. Fortunately, as a result of a SP motion in the Lower House, the so-called 900 points limit has been dropped, but the question is whether the government does not like other cuts and perhaps a new point limit. Because according to the Minister's letter of 31 May of this year, the majority of the earlier cuts will just come back in next month's new legislative proposal, including the proposal to include one's own house in the capital test. In what way does the Cabinet believe that the measures presented will lead to a more sustainable system of legal aid? On the contrary, does the majority of these measures not work against the promotion of quality within the legal profession? Our concern is that the Minister is too focused on cost savings and continues to propose further restrictions on access to the legal aid financed. This also restricts access to justice. We are concerned that the current review of points should be conducted in a budget-neutral manner. Why are the quality and need no longer put at the centre of the review? As far as we are concerned, the concerns I have voiced here about legal aid and police funding in particular extend to other parts of the chain. Our plea is: opt for more sustainable funding coupled with a clear policy objective. Do not always create unrest in the chain with ad hoc policies aimed at austerity. After all, care and quality require a certain level of calm and predictability, but also transparency and accountability. After all, the core tasks of the Ministry of Security and Justice are too important to subject them to unilateral cost savings. I began my speech with the threats to the rule of law, which can take different forms. In particular, trust in the rule of law requires extra attention to the quality of the rule of law, more than the feasibility of finances. I look forward to a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-13.u5	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I will suspend the meeting for a single minute, pending the Minister and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
