ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u1	I welcome the committee and give the floor to Mrs Schouten, the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its first-term input. I would also like to thank the Chamber warmly for the compliments that have been expressed towards the committee. I am happy to pass it on to my colleagues, but also to the staff and to our advisers. Partly because of their excellent support, we as a committee have been able to find our way through the tangles of outdated and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations. I therefore say to them once again: thank you very much for your indispensable support. Before I answer the specific questions raised by the Chamber, I would first like to share some general thoughts with the Chamber on the process of the last two and a half months. I think it's good that I start with that. As a committee, we have worked hard to fulfil the task assigned to us by the Chamber, namely to investigate the violation of the confidentiality of the CIVD, the secret committee. We have done so in all conscience, but with a disappointing outcome; we share that with the Chamber. At the same time, we are unanimous in favour of this report. And I stand before this committee. For all of us, we have accepted the mandate of the Chamber because of the urge to get the truth on the table in this matter. The secrecy surrounding the CIVD, the committee secretly, has been violated, and that's not something to shrug your shoulders on. This is a criminal offense. The Chamber has rightly taken this very seriously. It also affects the reputation of politics. That is why, however difficult our task was, we have gone to the limit of the existing powers. We went to row with the belts we had. Or rather: we are going to row in dense fog and with a broken oar. That is what the committee has motivated in order to do its work as carefully as possible. The Chamber should have known that the law of 1855 which we were bound by would make our work more difficult. The 2010 Public Secret report was already very clear about this, but since nothing was done at the time with the recommendation to modernise all legislation on criminal offences, we had to do it as a committee with this dated framework. I think it is quite right that the Court has not seen any reason to abandon the investigation, but now is the time to modernise these laws and regulations, so that the detection and prosecution of criminal offences can be made more possible in the future. In the Committee's view, that is precisely what is important for the restoration of political standing. Before I start answering the various questions from the Chamber, I would like to say the following. Some members have made fundamental comments on the functioning and operation of the Commission for the Intelligence and Security Services, the CIVD. I am not going to go into those remarks, including those made by Mrs Thieme and Mr Van Raak. That was not part of the mission of our committee. We are well aware that the CIVD has carried out its own investigation. We understand that the outcome of the study entitled "Towards a stronger functioning CIVD" will be discussed very shortly, on 4 February, by the Chairman of the CIVD with the Permanent Committee for the Interior. I would like to answer the questions raised in the first period along the stages of our investigation and thus also the chapters of our report. I would like to mention the blocks: first, our mission, task and powers, second, what preceded the CIVD's declaration and the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's office, third, the committee's investigation and fourth, the conclusions of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you very much for this enlightening account of what awaits us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u4	Before we move on to the first block, I think it is appropriate to ask the committee whether she had a sense of mission impossible at the beginning of her research assignment. This is one of the conclusions of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u5	The conclusion looks at the laws and regulations applicable to this trajectory. I have only just argued, and I stand by it, that it was precisely the reputation of the Chamber that was damaged if we had said immediately: we will stop. Then we knew for certain that the truth had not come out. We didn't know in advance whether that would work either, but at least we tried to track her down. We have indeed run into conflicting and outdated legislation, but that has not prevented us from doing everything we can to find out that truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u6	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u7	I also believe that the committee has acted in good conscience; let there be no misunderstanding about that. The point is, however, that, in the run-up to this investigation and the setting up of this committee, we have also received a letter from the Bureau stating that this legislation is obsolete. I find it disappointing that three months ago we had the conclusion that it was a very difficult task, that it was an old legislative process, and that three months later it turns out that nothing has actually changed and that it is still the same. My question is clear: couldn't we have known this at the front? The outcome has remained the same, but we are still three months ahead and we are still asking how politics stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u8	The point remains that these laws and regulations do apply. We can't just shove the law aside. It was the Chamber that did not do so much after 2010 with the recommendation from the Public Secret report that these laws and regulations should be modernised. If we had returned the order immediately, there would have been no possibility of further investigation. It is precisely on the basis of that old law, the Ministerial Responsibility Act, that the Chamber should investigate political ministers. Then the investigation would have been complete and then nothing would have happened to it. I think we would certainly have been against appearances, because then we would have known for sure that we had not even tried to get the truth out of the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u9	I have here a publication by Mr Boogaard, lecturer in Administrative and State Law at Leiden University. He says that it is only an interpretation that only the Chamber is competent to conduct such investigations and that those investigations can best be carried out by the Public Prosecutor. The D.A. should have done the same, just as the D.A. did in the case of leaking the Ombudsman. What is the reason why the Committee did not ask the Public Prosecutor in its discussion with the Public Prosecutor to continue the investigation, just as the Public Prosecutor did in leaking the Ombudsman? Why the move to do this yourself, when everyone knew that we are dealing with outdated legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u10	Can I point out to Mr Bontes that it was not the Chamber that insisted on that investigation? It was the Public Prosecutor's Office itself who came to the conclusion that it was no longer competent. That's why the D.A. transferred the file to the Chamber. So it was not a decision of the Chamber. The prosecution has said that we are no longer competent; please look at it now, because it is now on your plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u11	Yes, unless the Chamber or the committee had said: you have permission or consent to continue your investigation. The ball was indeed in the Chamber, but you can definitely hand it over to the D.A.'s office. What you are now saying on behalf of the committee is a very questionable interpretation. This publication shows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u12	If it were debatable, that qualification would have to be applied to the decision of the Public Prosecutor. The D.A. itself has done extensive research into this. We have referred in our report to a number of investigations carried out by the D.A. itself on this point to see where the competence for this investigation lies. It was the D.A. who handed this investigation over to the Chamber and also indicated that this was done on the basis of the Ministerial Responsibility Act of 1855. That law states that the prosecution of political officials is reserved for the Chamber. That is why we are holding this debate. Our committee did not say itself that it wanted to do this investigation so badly. It has been the Chamber, all of you, except for a number of political groups, which have agreed to this inquiry. The Chamber itself said that this investigation should be carried out. I say 'with the exception of a number of groups'. If a majority of the Chamber says we should do this and the D.A. says we don't have jurisdiction, then we can say we don't, but then we'll be sure it stays still.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u13	I'd like to get on with that. My question is what exactly is the difference between this investigation and the investigation in the context of leaks from the Ombudsman's Committee. I understand that it is probably not well addressed if I ask Mrs Schouten now, but my question is how we can obtain clarification from the Public Prosecutor. I find it unsatisfactory that it seems impossible to do so when it comes to group chairmen, but perhaps it might have been possible to do so when it comes to an individual Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr Houwers is actually already giving the answer. The committee had the task of examining the facts and circumstances in this case. We have not examined any other cases. We did not investigate why it was decided at that time to investigate in a certain way or not. I am afraid I cannot answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u15	I understand that, but then I'll put the question to the chairman. Can you show me how to make that difference? I would ask the prosecution to clarify to me as a Member of Parliament why it does not consider itself competent in one case and in the other case. If you can't do that this way, I'll find another way myself to get it out of the water. I think Mr Bontes' comment is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u16	I have heard your comment. I am in a different role here, but I will certainly see how we can answer this question properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I come to block one: the commission and the powers of the committee. The committee has taken a step-by-step approach for reasons of care. The committee had to reinvent the wheel. Actually, she had to invent the wheel completely. We did not want to make mistakes. We are the first committee of inquiry in 160 years set up to investigate a criminal offence. So we could not build on previous experiences. There was no manual ready. There was no clarity about what we could and had to do. That is why our start was a good deepening on our task, mission and powers. Mr Krol asked why we did not return the order. First of all, the law tells us to do this. This would no longer harm the reputation of the Chamber. The committee has therefore sought ways of doing the research. In advance, it wasn't certain what the outcome would be. We could still get a confession or an incriminating statement. The committee did not wish to exclude this possibility in advance. As far as our powers are concerned, Mr Bontes has asked why we did not involve the National Criminal Court. Of course, we have considered this and discussed it with experts. Unanimous, however, was the judgment that this is not possible. There's no relationship of authority with the National CID. The Committee does not know the powers which the National Police have in a normal investigation. Nor can it delegate powers which the committee does not have, nor can it transfer powers to the National Criminal Court. I come to block two: the examination of the D.A.'s investigation. After we had carefully mapped out our mission, possibilities and powers, we studied and analysed the investigation of the State's Attorney General. A number of questions have also been asked. Let me start with the report. The investigation by the Office results from the CIVD's declaration. Mr Houwers asked if the representative of the Lower House who made the declaration was authorized to do so on behalf of the chairman of the CIVD. That is the case; that is what the committee has been able to establish. It's a procedure customary in the Lower House. Where a declaration is made, the act of fact shall be carried out by a security officer who, of course, is also authorised to do so in writing. Otherwise, the D.A. wouldn't be handling a report either. It was also asked whether the declaration was not pointless. It was the CIVD who thought she should report it. The D.A. has decided to process the declaration. Mr Bishop called the investigation of the D.A.'s office a mess. He asked if there were any indications that the D.A. might have had more opportunities for investigation that had not been used solely because of its political character. Let me start with the latter, because I can be brief on that. No, only the fact that they are political ministers is the reason that another legal regime applies. They are therefore legal and not political reasons which led the prosecution to fail to pursue the investigation. Another image I want to take away is that the D.A.'s investigation would be a mess. That was not the case, quite the contrary. The file was logical and systematic. However, it was far from completed. That is what the committee wanted to say with the term 'not ready to go', which is a factual observation. The D.A. initially focused on one track, namely an article in the NRC. Within it, the investigation was then directed again to one group, namely those present on the side of the Lower House at CIVD-meetings. Those are the group chairmen who were members and the committee griffin. Other media statements about the CIVD and other persons present at CIVD meetings or able to have knowledge of reports were not included in the investigation. Because within this narrow track at some point only MPs survived, the prosecution could and should not continue. That's why our committee was dealing with a file that wasn't ready to go. We have continued the investigation by portraying traces and persons who have not yet been investigated. I shall come back later to the question of how we did this. I shall now turn to other questions about the D.A.'s office. Many questions about the investigation, including the members Van Raak, Verhoeven, Bisschop, Keijzer and Grashoff, focused on the twenty-month period between the time of the declaration and the return of the file to the House of Representatives. Couldn't the D.A. have previously found that it wasn't competent, so many questions were raised. The committee is well aware of the activities of the public prosecutor during which period; it has also outlined this in its report. From March 2014 to November 2014, the National Criminal Court conducted an investigation. Subsequently, legal investigations took place until March 2015. After that, internal discussions took place, which ended in November 2015 with the decision to transfer the file to the Lower House. However, we have seen these lead times as a fact. After all, the Committee had neither the mandate nor the power nor the time to determine how this internal decision-making process was conducted within the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u18	If I understand correctly, the National Police have been able to investigate for six months. The Committee notes that the investigation of the D.A.'s office was far from complete. Is she coming to that conclusion because much more research could still be done, or should the Rijkscepche also conclude after six months that no further research could be done because there was insufficient material to study?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u19	The reason why the D.A. handed over the investigation is because it also informed the Chamber that at that time only political officials remained. The D.A. concluded that, under the Ministerial Responsibility Act, it was not competent to carry out investigations. That was the reason. Further speculation as to whether more could be done, or whether more things could or could not go on, was not the reason. We didn't talk to the D.A. about that either. The prosecution was very clear: the point at that stage of the investigation that political ministers were in the picture makes the prosecution stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u20	Am I to understand that the investigation began on a wide scale, and that the prosecution no longer considered itself competent to deal with a number of figures being politicians, MPs? In that case, the Hoge Raad is competent if the Lower House gives an order to do so. Are there any other bodies that have the theoretical ability to conduct such an investigation, for example the secret services? Are there any other options? Or does the 1855 law say that this is where it ends?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u21	That 1855, the Ministerial Responsibility Act, looks to political ministers, i.e. ministers and MPs. The reason for the prosecution to turn it over was because that group was left in the investigation. So there has indeed been some treason. That law doesn't say: you can use other agencies like the National CID to do so. No, the law says it's up to the Chamber to decide if there's a charge of prosecution at the Supreme Court. The law clearly requires the Chamber to set up a committee of inquiry, the committee you see sitting here, and that it is up to the Chamber to determine whether a charge of prosecution is being imposed, and not to any other body. I'm moving on. Mr Grashoff and Mr Verhoeven asked whether the long lead time at the D.A. had had any effect on the committee's investigation, for example because the memory of those directly involved was now much less...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u22	Before you proceed, Mr Bontes has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mrs Schouten said: we can give a charge to the Supreme Court. That has not happened, because it is not in the committee's recommendations. I think it's a good idea in itself. Is the committee prepared to do this anyway, so to hand over the whole matter to the pg, who then launches a real investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u24	There are two questions in Mr Bontes' question. Let me make this clear, because I have often heard the question whether the Chamber could not have handed over the file at once to the Attorney General of the Supreme Court, who would then have to investigate. A burden of persecution sees on a person. So we have to pass on one or more names to the Attorney General, depending on whether a suspect would come forward on whom that burden should be seen. Whether we are going to impose this burden will be decided by the Chamber, because that has not yet been voted on. In fact, we have only given an opinion that we should not be burdened with prosecution, because we have not been given a name in our investigation. So we really need a name to be able to give a burden of prosecution. I would like to stress that the Supreme Court must then proceed. There is therefore no longer an opportunity to carry out the prosecution. The moment a name is passed on, he has to prosecute. If there is no name, we have searched for it, but it has not come up. It is an anonymous burden, and we cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u25	I think Mrs Schouten is getting very cheap out of this. This really gives me the impression that it hasn't been properly investigated. You can get the call details. Who called who? Just send it to the Supreme Court. Then, for my part, you have six suspects; then let them be investigated. I don't believe you should funnel it into one suspect at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mrs Thieme has a point of order, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u27	Yes. I really do not think it is possible for the chairman of this committee to be addressed in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr Kuzu, do you have a point of order, or do you wish to interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u29	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'd like to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u30	Before proceeding, I shall first give the floor to Mrs Schouten for a reply to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u31	I leave Mr Bontes' qualifications to him. I'm just here reading what's in the law. That law still applies to these situations. It has not been a choice of this committee. The committee has had the task of examining whether there were reasonable suspicions of guilt against one or more persons. We have taken this very seriously and we have tried to bring it up. I'm afraid that didn't work out. You cannot blame us for not giving advice on a charge of persecution, because there really must be a name for it, Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u32	There are six names; send them through. Don't say, "We can't find anything." That's bullshit. No one's gonna believe this!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr. Bontes, you've already been.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u34	I would like to build on that, perhaps in other words. Mrs Schouten indicated that it should be one or more names. In the CIVD are a number of people. Why is that not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u35	There must be good reason to give that burden. You can't just say at random: Dear Attorney General, here you have the names of the CIVD, investigate it. The Attorney General will want to know whether there are indeed reasonable suspicions of guilt against one or more persons, and whether one or more persons can be appointed. If a number of names are passed on at random, then again, they must be prosecuted and prosecuted by the Attorney General. He can't just do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u36	That's exactly the point, isn't it? As chairman of the committee, Mrs Schouten talks about calling "at random" a number of names, but they are not just "at random" a number of names? It concerns a number of names, established, of persons on that committee. It's not about us prosecuting 300 men. No, we're talking about an x-number of people on that committee. Why isn't that possible? Doesn't this give you the feeling that this is covered with the cloak of love?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u37	We are still living in the rule of law. In a rule of law, you really should have a suspect. We have not been able to establish a reasonable presumption of guilt. That is why we recommend not to burden prosecution, but ultimately, of course, it is up to the Chamber. You're really gonna have to have a name for a suspect before you can go to the Attorney General of the Supreme Court with that. That's all I can tell you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u38	In my input, I asked what would happen if you did. There may be people who think this should be done. What does that look like in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u39	Then all those people who will be mentioned will have to be prosecuted. In any case, they will be considered a suspect by the Chamber and will have to prosecute the Attorney General of the Supreme Court. Yeah, what's that gonna look like? We have not considered that entirely, but it is a fact that if I follow Mr Kuzu's reasoning, the entire Committee IVD will then be suspicious and prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u40	Including, I think, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence and the officials present. Is that the image I'm supposed to remember?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u41	It's your image, but it could be, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u42	I understand from your report that there are metadata, which shows who called who and how long. I'm trying to get a picture of the kind of material that's available. I assumed the contents of those phone calls couldn't be assessed because they weren't tapped. Is that true, or was it tapped?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u43	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are only data on which group chairman has called the relevant journalist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u44	I can therefore imagine that this makes it complicated to examine the content of these telephone calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u45	We do not have the authority to do that. We in the House of Representatives can't put up tapes or anything like that either. Those are real powers that lie with the National CID. On the basis of the call made between a journalist and a group chairman, you should be able to say to the Attorney General: that is enough to impose a burden of prosecution. There are more ways that things can be leaked than just by phone. In fact, I don't think it's very often on the phone. In any case, we have not been able to establish this on the basis of that data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u46	Looking at these metadata, I would like to know how many group chairmen are eligible as those who have been on the phone with NRC journalists. How many times did the metadata match the entire group chairmen who are on that committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u47	That's information covered by the confidentiality of a criminal investigation. In a criminal investigation, the data from the search will not be on the street. The committee has also continued to do so. We have conducted a criminal investigation and we do not disclose the information that has emerged from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u48	But there have been names of group chairmen. Then can you tell me how much? I imagine you can't name names here, but you can tell me how many there were. In my view, there is a very good reason to further transfer that file to the Attorney General at the Supreme Court, in the sense that we have four names and they are all four suspects. I can't help it. I've worked with the police myself for 30 years than you're just a suspect. Just go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u49	The fact that someone's on the phone with someone else doesn't make him or her a suspect right away. You're really gonna have to have more data for that. That's what I've been trying to tell you: only the fact that someone's been called doesn't make a suspect. So you're gonna need a confession or an incriminating testimony to establish that. We have not been able to establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u51	Briefly, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u52	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll try to be brief. I think we all agree that the bottom stone must come up. There's some names. Our criminal law says that you're going to prosecute and that you can dismiss a case when that prosecution doesn't lead to a sufficiently fruitful outcome. I wonder what the committee's objections to going after a number of group chairmen who we already know have come out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u53	It's gonna be a variation on the theme, but I keep arguing that you need to be able to identify a suspect. You must be able to identify a suspect and thus give a charge to the Attorney General of the Supreme Court. Just the fact that someone called someone else doesn't make a suspect. In the discussions we have had, we have submitted the relevant contacts to these people. We have also asked: can you explain why it took place at that time? For this, final explanations have all been given. If there is no confession or incriminating testimony, then this committee cannot appoint a suspect either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u54	The point is that there is much more information that can lead to the truth than the information that the Chamber now has. Mrs Schouten states that the Public Prosecutor's Office had one or more political group chairmen in the picture, which is why it was known that they had telephone contact with the NRC journalist who was leaked. That's not nothing. The committee also had access to that information. To get close to the truth, of course, we need that information. I therefore urge Mrs Schouten once again to share this information with the Chamber. Then we can bring the group chairman or chairmen to the Chamber and ask those people themselves to explain the contact they have had with the NRC journalist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u55	As I have just argued, the committee has followed the line of criminal investigation. That is also the kind of research we have done: investigation. For no citizen in the Netherlands it is made public if he is involved in an investigation. Because it doesn't say anything at all. You need to be able to identify a suspect. That suspect may have to be prosecuted. In this case, it is up to the Court to assess that. The involvement in an investigation will never be made public. That reasoning has been maintained by the Committee for this investigation. That's what she wants to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u56	There are always exceptions. An exception must be made in this case, because this is not just about anything. Again, the one who leaked or leaked has or has thrown the Dutch safety too gibberish. That's a unique case. A unique case deserves a unique treatment. If the whole Chamber agrees that we need to get as close to the truth as possible, then this must be done. Then, again, that information must be made known to the Chamber. Then we can move on. Then the Chamber can prove that it really wants to get as close to that truth as possible. As far as I know, there's no prohibition on sharing that information. The PVV Group therefore reiterates its call for that information to be obtained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u57	There is a legal ban, namely Article 40, second paragraph of the Parliamentary Survey Act 2008. That's the law we worked with. That article indicates that personal data should be kept secret. So we have kept to the law. That is the only answer I can give to Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u58	Again, a unique case deserves a unique treatment. In that context, I make an order proposal. I want a roll-call vote on this point, because it is really worth a lot to the PVV Group to get as close to the truth as possible. The room deserves that. If the Chamber of Chambers says that that step must be made towards the truth, then the Chamber must prove it. Then the signal to this committee is clear: we would like to have that call data. I want a roll-call vote right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u59	Perhaps it would be a good idea if you indicated exactly what you wanted to have that roll-call vote on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u60	Yeah, the formulation is very close. The roll-call vote should be on the request to the committee to send to the Chamber the names of the chairman of the political group or group chairmen who were in the public prosecutor's office for having talks with the NRC journalist concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr President, would you like to deal with this as a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u62	Yes. Requesting a roll-call vote shall be the right of a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u63	I want to respond to this. Of course, we are dealing with the PVV's proposal as it should be. However, there are a number of parliamentary groups that make all kinds of suggestions and make suspicions here, groups that propose things as if we could just transfer something, while other groups think that this is not possible. They do not say anything, but I would like to say that there is no question of us trying to get the bottom of it in this way. That will be evident from the roll-call vote. I also find it strange that a number of parliamentary groups say: if metadata shows that you happened to call a journalist, then we have to prosecute you. At least I want to say that my party doesn't think in that direction. I hope that it becomes clear that a number of other parties do not want that either, because that is not legally possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u64	First of all, I want the bottom stone to emerge, because there is a political leader among us who is unheard of and willing to commit a crime of office in order to play political games. I do wonder whether we can vote on a proposal which is contrary to the law. The chairman of the committee says she has complied with the law. We can vote, but we are not supposed to vote on anything that violates the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mrs Schouten said that if you can identify someone as a suspect, then you must have supporting statements. Then it all gets a little clearer and easier. In fact, that is nonsense, because why have the assistants of the group chairmen not been heard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u66	You have already asked that question, Mr Bontes. It is now a question of Mr Fritsma's request. I don't know if you want to say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u67	I'd like that. Of course that bottom stone has to come up. Anyone who is watching this debate feels that it is not right. Of course I am in favour of a roll-call vote. Bring up the bottom stone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u68	With a roll-call vote, we will not get the bottom of this. Let's get that straight. I agree with Mr Van Raak. The committee has just indicated why it is not possible to give those data. It's forbidden by law. I leave it to you, Mr President, but a roll-call vote seems absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u69	I'd like to suspend. The application for a roll-call vote shall be the individual right of Members of Parliament. We have to deal with this in order. After a brief suspension, I'll come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u70	Are you going to make sure it's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u71	It is an unusual situation in which we find ourselves, which requires careful consideration of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u72	I would really like to have checked whether we can even vote on a proposal that is contrary to the law. Can we really do that according to the Rules of Procedure? We can't put our colleagues in such a position, can we? I assume that such a motion will be rejected, but if it is adopted, we will put our colleagues in a difficult position. We can't do that, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u73	No, then we are in a new situation. We're gonna take a good look at that. Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u74	First of all, we can vote on anything. Secondly, a correction to what my colleague from D66 said: I am not pointing out a perpetrator. I would just like to point out that the PVV Group merely points out that there are data showing which group chairmen have called this NRC journalist. Those group chairmen may give their own text and explanations. If this Chamber really wants to get the bottom of it, this Chamber has to prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u75	Good. I'm gonna make the proposal to suspend. I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u76	We are going to suspend for 15 minutes before we vote by roll call, so that groups have the opportunity to come to the Chamber quietly. After the suspension, we shall take a roll-call vote on Mr Fritsma's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u77	Then I have one question for you, Madam President. Do I understand from the fact that you allow a roll-call vote that what we do is not against the law? Otherwise we will not even be able to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u78	There may be differences of opinion on this issue. It is a point of contention, but I propose that we simply vote by roll call. We are having a fundamental discussion at another time, not now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u79	So I understand you're not gonna urge me to do anything illegal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u80	You can always have an investigation into that, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u81	May I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u82	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u83	I would actually like to vote on whether we want to put this to the vote. We in the Chamber can give a ruling on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u84	No. Mr Bishop, each individual MP has the right to request a roll-call vote. I'd like to leave it at that.
