ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Let's be honest: who hasn't even forgotten to pay a bill once? A scary letter from a collection agency might help, but making mistakes is also just human. That the bill stays too long is not good. It can cost entrepreneurs. Collection agencies are in favour of giving a wake-up call that should be paid for now. But warning is really something other than subpoenaing someone. The Consumers' Association rings the bell and points out that debt collection agencies scare and mislead consumers with draft subpoenas. Collection agencies appear to be using semantic tricks and word games to give the impression that they are qualified to do something for which we have just been appointed to the Crown and legally regulated bailiff. Pretending that you have a jurisdiction that is not yours is inappropriate, careless and possibly unlawful. The collection agencies themselves, the AFM and the ACM should monitor the collection industry, but what measures and possible sanctions will AFM and ACM take against those collection agencies that continue to play bailiffs? Are their powers sufficient? What is the Minister's opinion on this? Can he provide the Chamber with an overview of the powers and indicate whether they should be strengthened in his opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Wijngaarden for this question, in particular because collection is regularly discussed in the Chamber. This is also not incomprehensible if, according to the Authority's report, a total of EUR 5 billion had to be collected in 2014. The size of the collection market for consumers in 2014 was 5 billion euros. The collection industry in the Netherlands, consisting of collection agencies on the one hand and bailiffs on the other, is therefore an important part of the economy and is an important condition for a successful existence of many companies in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, I say this because I totally agree with Mr Van Wijngaarden that you simply have to pay your bills in time. However, I recognize the image that you sometimes forget. The Consumers' Association finds sending draft subpoenas disproportionate and questionable. There's a lot to say about that. If the claim is not justified, has a statute of limitations or does not exist, a collection is not at issue in any case and a draft subpoena is obviously not justified either. If, as Mr Van Wijngaarden says, the collection agency gives the impression that it would be competent to issue such a summons, I agree with him that this is unacceptable. Collection agencies do not have that competence, as he rightly said. On the other hand, sending a draft subpoena on its own and the proper communication that you are considering not paying the claim to give it out to a bailiff so that he can send a subpoena, but a warning and an information to the consumer that he can do something with. He therefore realizes that he runs the risk of unnecessary and high costs and can choose between paying or defending himself. It may be that the consumer wants to defend it. However, in general terms, collection agencies should not give the impression that they would be competent to do so. That is why, following, among other things, the report on which I informed the Chamber on 17 December last year, the Authority for Consumer & Market, together with the Dutch Financial Markets Authority for 2016, has put the approach to unfair collection practices on the agenda and that they will each join forces from their own roles. I welcome that initiative. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked whether the possibilities of both bodies were sufficient to carry out this monitoring in full. I will be happy to inform him about this at the end of the project. On the powers and sanctions that can be imposed in the context of supervision, I will inform the Chamber together with my colleagues from Economic Affairs, Finance and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for recognizing that collection agencies should not, in fact, give the false impression that they have a competence which they do not have at all. I would also like to thank him for his commitment to an analysis of the powers, but I would like to know a little more from the Minister on self-regulation within the industry. There is no better regulation than self-regulation. How's that working out for you? How does he rate it? Are the professional rules sufficiently clear for the collection agencies? What do they think of these practices? What does the KBvG think of this? After all, a collection agency that plays bailiff is also in the bailiff's garden. So is the Minister prepared to talk to the collection industry and the KBvG, the professional organisation of which bailiffs are obliged to be members, in order to find out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	I have that willingness. I regularly speak with the KBvG and the NVI, the Dutch Association of Collection Companies. The latter also has a quality mark. This is a good example of very active self-regulation. I remember having often spoken with the President of the Association in my capacity as a Member of Parliament. That conversation takes place regularly in my department with both agencies. On the one hand, there is a big difference, because the bailiffs have legal supervision. Very recently, the Chamber discussed changes in this area, particularly in the professionalisation of supervision. On the other hand, there is the self-regulation of the NSA. I think it is very good that we should send the message back to the Chamber today that it would be sensible for all those companies if they were to use, in particular, debt collection agencies covered by the NSA. This guarantees compliance with the standard rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Minister for that commitment. I note that the collection industry really has an improvement to do and look forward to the Minister's information on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	We ourselves are legislators and can decide whether the fines are high enough, and whether there should be further supervision of the collection industry. That is why we have long been working on an initiative proposal, which we will shortly be sending to the Chamber. Mr Van Wijngaarden and the Minister are therefore served at their beck and call. There are now really unfair commercial practices. It is good that the ACM and the AFM are going to step up their supervision, but that has been happening for a long time and that label of the collection industry has been around for a long time. Can the Minister for Security and Justice say here that the debt collection agencies that are now sending subpoenas, for example, or sending debt collection letters to people who have no account at all, will soon expect a substantial fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	I cannot agree to this one-two-three, because I have just said that I will inform the Chamber about the powers of the ACM and the AFM in the framework of the supervision that will be carried out in 2016. Moreover, I am very curious to see the initiative legislative proposal announced by Mrs Schouten. I am also happy to provide the official support needed to make this a success. Moreover, this may not change the government's position on a legal hallmark for collection agencies. We will look forward to that discussion in the future. I will inform the Chamber of the possible risks of collection agencies under supervision, as I have just promised Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	The Minister's drifting away from here after all. This is a question of unfair commercial practices, as he himself has pointed out. If you do something in the Netherlands that is not allowed, you will be fined for it. It looks like the Minister is saying, "Fuck, collection agencies, don't do it!', But there's nothing against it for the rest. Now let us just make a statement and say: you will be fined if you break the law and do things that are not allowed, as is the case everywhere. Can't the Minister of Security and Justice make a stronger statement on this? Then the practice may change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	It is clear that we agree that unfair commercial practices should not and should not be heard. We also think it is very important that collection agencies do not give the impression that they are bailiffs or that they are able to send a subpoena on their own. We all know, by the way, that this is not possible. I have promised to inform the Chamber of the risks incurred by collection agencies in the context of the AFM and ACM monitoring project.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	Self-regulation is fine, but it is precisely in this sector that we have seen for years that incident is piling up on incident. We do not, or hardly, take any action from the political and legislative authorities to curb this type of practice. The Minister already talked about the NVI debt collection agency's quality mark, with only 22 out of over 500 collection agencies in the Netherlands affiliated. Isn't it time we regulated that legally? Linked to that, I ask the Minister whether the Minister thinks that collection agencies should not be separated from bailiffs, and that these two entities should not belong to one organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	I am happy to answer both questions. Let me say first of all that there is, of course, extensive protection against unfair practices by collection agencies. We have, as is well known, the Consumers' Association. He also raised this issue. In addition, we have the Legal Loket, the Legal Assistance Facility and the Fraud Help Desk that can advise on this. Complaints can be sent to the ConsuWijzer of the ACM, which is also very important. So there are very nice facilities to get information but also to file a complaint, for people who suffer from it. Mrs Schouten has announced a bill that regulates a legal mark. Of course, that's what the government is waiting for. I do think that I would like to repeat here that companies using debt collection agencies would be wise to opt for one of the agencies bearing the label of the Dutch Association of Certified Collection Companies, because they have to meet a number of basic requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	Six years ago, the SP called for the possibility of introducing and enforcing fines in the treatment of the Collector's Costs Act. To date, however, this kind of illegal practice has been carried out by the incasocowboys in this market. They send draft subpoenas, even though they're not allowed to. There are seizures for an amount of €2. Too high collection costs are still charged, more than is permitted by law. The minister acts as if he is maintaining, but in fact nothing is happening yet. Isn't it incredible that we can do this to this day? We need clear rules, fines and enforcement. Where is the power of this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-3.u13	Let me say first of all that the sending of a draft subpoena is, of course, acceptable in principle, as I said just now in reply to Mr Van Wijngaarden's question. This can even fulfil a good function, because it is important that you, as a consumer, are aware of the consequences of leaving an account unpaid. A collection agency or a bailiff can thus show you what awaits you, that this means high costs and a possible legal procedure in which you must be assisted and in which you can also be convicted, which may involve additional costs. I find it neat in itself from a collection agency when it informs people about it. I therefore disagree with Mr Van Nispen's view that it should never be allowed to do so. It is different if the collection agency gives the impression that it itself has the power to issue such a summons, which is not the case, and when it comes to claims which do not exist or which are subject to a statute of limitations. That is also the point that the Consumers' Association, or Cash register, I believe, has raised this week. Then I come to the point of collection costs. We have a law for that, which Mr Van Nispen and I have discussed together. Let us not pretend now that the whole 5 billion industry is one big fraud practice, as Mr Van Nispen may have wanted to make a little point in his contribution, because it really is a very important part of our society. There are a lot of people who don't pay their bills. It is good that collection is possible, but this must be done in a careful way. That is also why the ACM and the AFM have announced to strengthen their supervision for 2016. I will inform the Chamber, as I have already promised.
