ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. The coup attempt in Turkey last summer has a very violent aftermath. The Venice Commission of the Council of Europe has written a destructive report on this. The measures taken went far and far too far. Tens of thousands of people were fired, expropriated or even imprisoned and tortured. The purges carried out by the Turkish government have become a sort of manhunt. Here in the Netherlands, the discussion about the role of Diyanet Netherlands is going on. Previous allegations that the Turkish Ministry of Religious Affairs would also collect information through mosques in the Netherlands were denied. There would have been no structural policy. In Turkey, however, a parliamentary committee has confirmed that information is being obtained in dozens of countries, including the Netherlands. I'll ask the cabinet what it's doing against this. How is it prevented that Diyanet mosques in the Netherlands participate in this kind of espionage of the Turkish government? I also ask what the cabinet is doing to combat Turkey's influence on Dutch society via Diyanet. Does the government recognise that the training, appointment and financing of imams by the Turkish government is at odds with the separation of church and state? Does the government share the view that this is an obstacle to integration and that this leads to unhealthy tensions in Dutch society? Then what does the cabinet do with it? Finally, why has the government not yet implemented the Buma and Others motion, which called for action to be taken against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Member of the Chamber for these questions. Like Mr Heerma, we too, of course, are concerned here on behalf of the Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, about the situation and the aftermath of the coup attempt in Turkey. Mr Heerma asked what the cabinet was doing in response to the reports on Diyanet. Those newspaper reports haven't been confirmed. Of course, they need to be sorted out very well. That's what's going on now. The Foreign Minister, of course, is also working on this, but the SZW Minister, at an earlier stage, on 5 December, promised to send the Chamber a letter in which all these matters could be settled, including the Buma motion. The Minister will also inform the Chamber on behalf of the Cabinet of how this report is handled with all due care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Secretary of State's main concern is the procedural settlement of the Buma motion, but that was just one of my questions. We have been seeing in the Netherlands for months that tensions are increasing as a result of the failed coup attempt in Turkey. There have also been signs before that Diyanet plays a role in this. These reports have always been denied, but for that Turkish parliamentary committee it has now been acknowledged that there is information gathering in dozens of countries via the Diyanet mosques. The debate has also been going on in the Chamber for a few months. Several motions have been adopted to the effect that this influence from the Turkish Ministry of Religious Affairs in Dutch society is undesirable and counteracts integration. I understand the Secretary of State only focuses on the Buma motion, but my questions go further. What does the Cabinet do to stop this? What is the government doing to prevent the manhunt that the Turkish government is currently carrying out from getting people locked up; they are losing their jobs and being tortured and expropriated also has its impact in our society? So I ask again what the cabinet is doing about this. This has partly to do with the implementation of the Buma motion, but it is also a question of whether we agree with each other that information is collected from the Turkish authorities through these mosques about people who are Dutch, who live here and who then have to fear this kind of practice in Turkey. I welcome the fact that the cabinet is still considering how the Buma motion can be properly implemented, but that does not relieve the cabinet of its duty to do more to counter this. That is why I ask the cabinet once again what it is doing about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	If those newspaper reports on which these questions are based were indeed confirmed, there would be very undesirable interference. I believe that the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment also underlined this last Friday. People must, of course, be able to feel safe in the Netherlands, including people of Turkish origin. This means that people must always be able to file a report and, if necessary, anonymous. Let me make this very clear. I have just said that the Foreign Minister is in the process of interacting with the Turkish authorities. The Minister of SZW intends to reach agreement on the Buma motion at the beginning of February, not only on the Buma motion but also on the motions tabled by Mrs Karabulut and Mr Azmani, both of whom I see in the interrupting microphones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u5	Finally, Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u6	I think it is a good thing that the cabinet here states that people should report if they feel threatened and that the cabinet also states that people should feel safe and that these messages, if they are correct, are very undesirable. But that still does not answer the central question, namely what the cabinet is doing to counter this influence and to ensure that people can feel safe under this interference from Turkey, given that there is a manhunt going on against alleged gülenists in Turkey. What is the government doing to protect people from this and to stop the unwanted influence through the Diyanet mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u7	The Chamber has, of course, already debated this issue on many occasions. In the aftermath of the coup attempt, matters were also discussed. Every time, the cabinet stresses that the security of citizens is paramount. Every time we report, in this context too, that this issue is of course being discussed in close consultation with the authorities, so that really good, clear insight is given to the Chamber in the February letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you. I call Mr Azmani on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u9	To be honest, I am not really surprised by this news, because Turkey has for many years had a foreign policy aimed at influencing it. There is no separation between Church and State. They use a politically long arm instrument. They are not the only ones in it. Even if you look at Gulf states in relation to salafism, this is true. It's just unacceptable. Indeed, a motion has been adopted by the Chamber aimed at counter-strategy with regard to this foreign policy in Turkey. Has there been any contact with the Turkish authorities in recent days to make it clear that we find this unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u10	There has indeed been contact with the Turkish authorities, if I have been properly informed. That's what I just said. Mr Azmani really has a point that the separation between Church and State must, of course, be paramount. That is also the firm belief of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u11	Erdogan's long arm extends far and far. It's not the first time we've been standing here. We have had several incidents following the failed coup attempt and before that. In fact, it is so bad that freedom is exported from Turkey to this country. I can tell the Secretary of State that a lot of people feel unsafe. If we find that Diyanet is not only a political organisation, but is probably also engaged in espionage activities, then surely the time has come for the cabinet to speak out against it, saying that we are no longer served by the unwanted influence via Diyanet and taking active steps towards Turkey, rather than staring into those big Erdogan headlights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u12	Of course, it's complex matter. As I said in reply to Mr Heerma's question, this also affects freedom of religion. The cabinet does not want to go ice over one night and really studies very carefully how to implement the Buma motion and the other motions. As announced in the letter of 5 December, the cabinet will "rewrite" the Chamber in February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u13	I have one question for the Secretary of State, who, of course, is here on behalf of the Minister. We have the influence of Erdogan in the Netherlands through 150 Erdogan mosques. We've got Erdogan's Stasi practices, which we're talking about right now. We have been dealing regularly with Turkish-Kurdish riots for 20 years, both in The Hague and Amsterdam. We've had a Kurdish occupation of the House of Representatives. I will leave a few examples aside, but can the Secretary of State acknowledge that in the Netherlands we are just having a Turkish problem? If not, why can't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u14	As I have just said, the Minister will not only report to the Chamber in February on how we deal with the motions tabled by the Chamber, but will also highlight the broad point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u15	We are talking about a message in which Diyanet himself confirms that it is carrying out activities that reek of espionage, aimed at Turkish-Dutch citizens. It's about harassment. This isn't just about motions. It's about a very concrete report on espionage and intimidation. It's not the first time we've heard this, but it's the first time Diyanet has confirmed this. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. As the Prime Minister would say, we are not in politics to worry, but to act. So we want action!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u16	Oh, yeah, I recognize that a lot. This means that we want to guarantee security for the people concerned in our country. This also means that these people can report anonymously, because it is extremely important that we know what is going on. Then we can grab the people who deal with matters such as intimidation and espionage, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u17	It is a pity that Minister Asscher is not here, but there is nothing the Secretary of State can do about it. Integration policy is not doing very well at all. It's a reverse stove. This is totally unacceptable in Dutch society. Can the cabinet not simply take the decision that Diyanet will have to stop working in the Netherlands on 1 January until we know clearly what is going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u18	It is a fact that integration in our country is an incredibly important phenomenon. I didn't just say that for nothing. Not only does the minister stand for that, but the whole cabinet stands for that. That is why the entire cabinet, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of SZW, would very much like to tell the Chamber in the letter of early February how the cabinet is fully involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u19	When you talk to people from Diyanet, you hear that the far-reaching interference from Turkey with the Turkish mosques in the Netherlands is justified by the argument that sending imams trained in Turkey and sending the weekly Friday sermon can counter radicalisation. How does the cabinet appreciate this position? And what consequences does the cabinet attach to this appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u20	I know that the Chamber has spoken many times about, if I may say so, the long arm from Turkey and the interaction with, in this case, Diyanet and around mosques. That is why the cabinet will again, I will not make it more beautiful than it is in February a whole range, to put it in good Dutch, to the Chamber. This is an integral part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u21	I find the difference between what the Chamber wants and the Cabinet is worrying. Again and again, motions have been tabled calling for an end to that long arm and for the influence of non-free countries in our country to be contained. It's said, we're gonna look at it, and we're gonna look at it again, and there's gonna be another study. Everything is being put on the long track, now this again. The cabinet has still not condemned what has happened in Turkey, and the Chamber has been very clear about this. So that hole is really big. What diplomatic actions has the Netherlands taken in response to the recent reports? And what else has to happen if the cabinet really wants to take action and say: enough is enough, this is the red line and we will not take it anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u22	The cabinet is, of course, in contact with the Turkish authorities on the matter this afternoon. This is done at various levels, both through the relevant ministries in The Hague and through our embassy in Ankara. So actions are definitely being grafted. It is a bit of a repetitive disc, but we would also very much like to share it with the Chamber, so that it can fully debate it with the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u23	Integral debate... We would like to speak with the Minister now, but unfortunately the Secretary of State is here. With all due respect, this may indicate how important the Minister considers this subject to be. But let me come to a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u24	No, Mr Van Meenen. The Minister must be in the First Chamber. If that's the case, he has a good reason to dismiss his secretary of state. That has nothing to do with the importance of the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u25	Okay, so there can't be a 15-minute suspension there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u26	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u27	But let me ask you a question. This isn't even about a long arm anymore, it's about a long telescope that penetrates into people's homes here. From the answers I have heard so far, I do not think that the urgency for the cabinet is sufficient. What's the relationship with Diyanet right now? Are there any discussions with this organization right now to see how this is possible? One even has the boldness to acknowledge that it is happening. What does the Cabinet do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-2.u28	Diyanet in the Netherlands hasn't confirmed the newspaper reports, but that doesn't mean we have to look at what I just reported. Of course, we need to see how we can get all the facts on the table. It is really very important that we do not go ice in one night and that we also look at how we can deal with such an institution. It may be clear that we are living in a rule of law here. If people do not feel safe here, I sincerely hope that they will press charges so that those who cause this insecurity can be caught in the collar. I keep emphasising that. I really call on the people involved to do so.
