ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Who lives where? The government wants to know and uses that data for everything. The Basic Registration Persons must therefore be correct. The minister thinks he's doing nicely. About 97% of the entries in the basic registration are correct, he says. That means it's not right for about 500,000 people. The television programme The Monitor pays attention to false registrations. Research showed that you can register in many municipalities without checking an address; login online, type an address, and the government thinks you live there. To make a point, presenter Teun van de Keuken tried to register at the minister's address. It worked, Mr. Chairman, it worked! The municipality itself admitted that no evidence had been requested, because it was ticked that there would be a rental contract. The removal of barriers to registration poses major problems for others. The risk of someone getting in the way of this is great. Many warn of this. The Ombudsman started an inquiry into the care of municipalities when registering in the Basic Registration Persons in February. The WRR and the General Court previously warned against the consequences of wrong data in digital registrations. The key question today is what the Minister will do. Does he accept that churches sit back and say: do you squeal if it is not true? Or does he ensure that municipalities take their responsibility and check in advance? Rotterdam is already doing this and Amsterdam will also apply this wake-up call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Address fraud is a serious problem. It is often the beginning of abuse of social services or the use of someone else's name to do wrong business. That's what's on the retina of municipalities. There has been a programme on this issue by my predecessor for many years, and I have continued to do so. I was on a work visit in Bergen op Zoom two weeks ago, dedicated exclusively to address fraud. Yesterday there was a meeting in Nieuwegein with 50 mayors on the issue of address fraud. Nobody sits back. This problem is being looked at very seriously. 97% of the address information is correct. That does not mean that the other 3% can be said to be fraud. They're generally people who moved, but haven't given up on this yet. However, there is also a certain number of cases of fraud and this is dealt with very seriously by municipalities, both before and after registration. If someone at his address receives a message that someone is new and this is not true, he can inform the municipality accordingly. If you check that you have a rental agreement in Amsterdam when making an online declaration at a store, i.e. not at a rental house, the municipality does not ask for that rental agreement. I understand that in Amsterdam a D66 council member asked a question about this to the alderman, who I believe is also from D66. I would like to know what the answer to that question is going to be, namely whether we want to continue with this line. I have been informed that in Rotterdam, for example, you have to submit a rental agreement. I would add that this does not mean that you are preventing fraud, because someone can also, of course, fraud with a rental agreement. Remember that the declaration made in Amsterdam in the case to which Mrs Koşer Kaya refers is, of course, fraudulent because something was wrongly ticked. It is ultimately the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that they serve their citizens as effectively as possible and, on the other hand, to combat fraud as effectively as possible. I am as curious as Mrs Koşer Kaya on this point in Amsterdam. I will keep a close eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-6.u3	The Minister is trivializing the problem. I think it is great that the Minister is addressing this issue and talking about it in the country, but the problem exists. There is no solution yet, while the solution is simple. I say with the WRR and the General Court that this problem can be solved at the front. If you don't do this, you're gonna have bigger problems that you can't straighten out. Why is Rotterdam's example not followed? Why doesn't the Minister say: I'm going to make sure that the front is checked so that we don't have to solve the problem at the back, with the result that sometimes it's not at all soluble at all? The question is simple. Are we going to check in advance, follow how Rotterdam does it or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-6.u4	Every year I spend EUR 13 million on the programme to combat identity fraud. There's a Central Intelligence Point Identity fraud on BZK, which is a lot turned on. There is no simple solution. I just said that. Suppose you ask for a rental contract in advance, people can use it to cheat. You have to work on many more fronts than with one simple solution. I do a lot of work visits in the country in the field of address fraud. I invite Mrs Koşer Kaya to come and talk to the people of civil affairs to hear about the various ways in which fraud is being attempted. Then it will become clear to her that it is being pulled hard and nobody trivializes it and that it is not easy to solve it with one measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-6.u5	If Rotterdam can do it, so can the rest of the Netherlands. I maintain that this Minister is trivialising and underestimating the problems. I know the Minister has plenty of time. I find it extremely regrettable that this is not being done quickly. For my part, the Minister is coming up with a plan of action to make ex ante control possible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-6.u6	Unfortunately, fraud is also being committed in Rotterdam. The city council of Rotterdam knows that too. There are many different ways to do that. I have also been working in Rotterdam, for example on a house visit that attempts to detect fraud on the basis of all kinds of signals. I invite Mrs Koşer Kaya to look into this more closely. I really want to take away the impression from her that you can solve address fraud with one simple measure, because then municipalities would have done so already.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-6.u7	The Minister is the coordinating minister. He can come up with a plan of action. He can indicate what the problems are and how to solve them. I can't hear him say that. As far as I'm concerned, he has plenty of time to send that to the Chamber soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-6.u8	I can keep saying it. The correct maintenance of the municipal primary administration........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, there is an extensive national programme in which we cooperate well, yesterday with the Society of Mayors in Nieuwegein you should have been there; then you could have seen it with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and with municipal authorities to fight fraud. That is a serious problem and it is being pulled hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-6.u9	This brings us to the end of this Question Time. We're about to vote.
