ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week we witnessed a bizarre spectacle in Westminster. The main supporters of the Brexit, Boris Johnson and Nigel Farage, seemed to be surprised by the outcome of the Brexitrefendum and did not know how to proceed with this referendum. They have both vanished from the stage and are actually leaving their country orphaned. The Christian Union finds it very disappointing that the United Kingdom will eventually leave the European Union. The United Kingdom has always been a loyal ally of the Netherlands and, as far as we are concerned, the cabinet is not participating with those countries that advocate a rapid Article 50 procedure. We would rather have an EU with the United Kingdom than an EU with which we work the United Kingdom as quickly as possible. We must now remain calm and give the United Kingdom the opportunity to put things in order. A careful procedure is ultimately in the interests of all parties. The position adopted by the Prime Minister according to the report also shows that he agrees with it. It is appalling how Commission President Juncker, unlike this Prime Minister, has been throwing more oil on the fire over and over again over the last few days. That will only lead to a divorce. It is now up to the European Council, led by President Tusk, to accompany intergovernmental negotiations. The Commission has no role to play in Article 50. The Commission must stand back. Does the Prime Minister share the view that it is really up to the European Council to guide this process? The discontent that the British have massively expressed lives much wider in Europe. Europe has brought us peace and prosperity, but that feeling is not shared by everyone at the moment. A large group, including in the Netherlands, particularly suffers from the disadvantages of European cooperation or simply does not feel involved, feels that they are being ruled over. I mention, among other things, the truckers and the people in construction who lose their jobs because people from Eastern Europe can do it cheaper. We can't go back to business as usual right now. A so-called reflection process and reforms in line with the strategic agenda, as we see them in the report, will not do justice to citizens' concerns and the lack of support for European cooperation. In fact, such rather technocratic solutions will only alienate people further from Europe and drive them into the arms of Eurosceptic parties who want nothing more than more referendums. Mrs Mogherini's plans for a European army once again show that Europe has become entangled in the old federalist reflex. It is precisely with the Brexit in mind that Europe needs to reflect on its core tasks. This European army is a new step in the wrong direction of a so-called 'ever closer union'. My group therefore expected a sound from the Prime Minister about Mrs Mogherini's new plans. I would ask the Prime Minister to respond to these new plans. Last week, the Prime Minister mentioned growth, jobs and security in one breath with security. That surprised my group, because that is not the first, but certainly not the last word we are thinking of when it comes to the European Union. People feel not so much safe, but rather displaced in these circumstances. In the Council's report, the cabinet seems to focus on a promotional campaign for Europe and European cooperation. It sounds like we need to start explaining again what Europe is doing, but how does the cabinet intend to take away the concerns of the citizens? Should we not reflect much more on Europe's fundamental core tasks? The Christian Union is therefore strongly in favour of strengthening cooperation between Member States. Because of all supranational plans, this has been neglected in recent years. We do not want a reflex towards greater integration and transfer of power, but a reflection on the current division of powers between Member States and the Commission. We must move towards a Europe that tackles cross-border problems, but not always seeking the limits of its own power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u2	Mr Voordewind talks all the time about Europe's core tasks. What, according to the Christian Union, are Europe's core tasks? I only hear him talking about 'intergovernmental', 'between countries' and 'back to the core', but I do not hear any concrete, substantive example of a core task of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u3	These are, of course, the cross-border problems. Europe must limit itself to doing so. So it's not about how long a window washer ladder should be in the Netherlands or other micro-businesses that can be dealt with at Member State level. A European army? The moment we need to intervene, we need an army there for a quick reaction force, but we already have systems for that. Cooperation between the Member States is fine, but we should not move in the direction of a European standing army.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u4	This always happens when Eurosceptic parties start to talk negative about the European Union. They say all kinds of things that don't have to be done. Then all of a sudden it's about the length of the ladders of the glass-washers, about the school fruit and about energy labels. That's all beautiful. Mr Voordewind says: not a European army, not a European army, not a European army, not a European army. I ask Mr Voordewind a very simple question: what then? I do not mean cooperation between Member States, but a specific matter of substance for which the European Union, the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council should be responsible. One example of the Christian Union!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u5	There are very good examples: the internal market, the harmonisation of products so that we can sell products more easily together and the goods can be transported more easily, the exchange of staff, of people in Europe. But it's started to live its own life, become a moloch with ever more power. The European Commission launches plan after plan. Sounds like the Brexit are not only in England; they are also in the Netherlands. There are also parties here who want a referendum on whether we should still be in the European Union. I hope that the D66 Group, which is always in favour of this fast train towards federalism, will now take this point in order to have a fundamental reflection on Europe's core tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u6	The concept of "core tasks" is often used for the Europe of market and currency, of the internal market. Mr Voordewind mentioned the internal market as an example. Is the Christian Union indeed for a Europe of market and currency? Or is the Christian Union for a Europe of solidarity in which we stand for a number of values in this society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u7	Values are beautiful, but a country gets a heart through a soul, through something that binds us together. That should not be a European level, because people do not feel European. This is evident over and over again, in every referendum and also now. With a sense of 'we are Europeans', we are only alienating ourselves further from Europe. When it comes to values, you should look at the Member States in particular. When it comes to shared interests, yes, you have business to do in Europe. This applies to different subjects. Another example in which we can find each other is that of cross-environmental problems. We have also talked about asylum policy: how should we jointly monitor asylum flows? I'm not saying "stop," but I'm saying "check well." That's what you do at the external borders. That's what you need each other for. But once again, you do not need harmonisation of all judicial matters or asylum policy. You're gonna blow Europe back into a big monster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u8	It's all vague talk! Is it just about international work on tax avoidance? Is that one? Working against climate change? Working for a good standard so that one worker does not push one worker away from his place, but there is free movement of persons and goods? Is it now a matter of being able to do something on the social side of Europe? Is that what this is about? Is it about those values? In that I could recognize the Christian Union. In Europe, these things are particularly important and not the rubber tiles of a children's playground.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u9	Short reaction, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u10	I would like to ask GroenLinks what I have just asked D66 for, namely self-reflection on this subject. What did the Brexit GroenLinks bring? Does it now also have a sense of: should we not return to the core tasks that Brussels was initially intended for? Yes, that was an internal market. Yeah, that was pacifying after World War II. But no, it wasn't supposed to lead to a huge superstate that we have to pay hugely for. We have now become net contributors to it and the ordinary citizen has completely lost sight of it. I think that, in this sense as a Chamber tonight, we should be very careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u11	I would like to focus on the core task of the internal market. I believe that the internal market is a means and not an end. Mr Voordewind formulates it as a kind of goal, as a core task. I believe that the core task is that we have prosperity, well-being and peace and that people have work in that internal market. In my view, the aim is to generate economic growth and thereby ensure that people can work in that internal market and gain that prosperity. What is Mr Voordewind's position on the Detachment Directive? We see a lot of abuse of that. As a PvdA, we very much want it to be thoroughly revised so that the objective of the internal market, namely to create jobs and prosperity for people, is better safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u12	Here too, I am a little surprised at the further harmonisation that should take place. Of course, you need to see if you can harmonise working conditions. However, I would also like to ask the Labour Party to come to that reflection. What is the result of the Brexit Conference for the Labour Party, where is it always the task of Europe? I really hope that we will come to our senses tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u13	I did not say anything about harmonizing in the internal market. I have just said that the Detaching Directive currently offers the possibilities that Mr Voordewind himself referred to, such as for truckers and construction workers. People from outside the Netherlands who can work under their collective agreement conditions compete. That's the Detachment Directive. We would very much like to see them different. In this way, the PvdA would like to ensure that the free movement of workers leads to equal pay for the same work in the same place. That is what is not happening with the Detaching Directive. My question to Mr Voordewind is whether he will come with us if we propose a thorough review of the Detachment Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u14	If the PvdA comes up with a proposal to that effect, we will, of course, discuss it in the group. Of course, harmonisation must be achieved in terms of working conditions. I have used the example to show that Brussels, of course, is a great deal of instability when, for example, those truckers or those construction workers see themselves replaced by people from Eastern Europe. That feeling has now been expressed, among other things, with a Brexit. However, these feelings also live in the Netherlands. The question is, what can we do with these feelings right now? You can speed up, by saying that Europe must above all show what it is capable of. You can also take a step in the right direction and ask yourself what this reflection should lead to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u15	Proceed, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u16	The Prime Minister has shown himself to be a pragmatic President over the last six months, and I commend him for that. I know that we are moving in the right direction with regard to the reforms that were also on its agenda when it came to improving European decision-making. A number of these proposals were agreed by the Council in February in the negotiations with the British. There are a number of good points, such as distance from the goal of a "ever closer union" and strengthening the position of national parliaments. I still hope for support for this in this Chamber. Let us see whether the cabinet, whether the Netherlands, the good agreements, the Council's proposals, can still bring them into the European Union so that we can agree on them. Then the Ukraine referendum. I read about this in the report. I am very curious to see what the Prime Minister is going to do about the outcome of the Dutch referendum. He wants to strive for a satisfactory solution. But has he also found willingness among colleagues to do so? Has the Prime Minister made it clear that the Netherlands will not ratify the Treaty until the outcome of the referendum is properly achieved? What are the possible legally binding solutions the Prime Minister is thinking of? Reference is made to this in the report. What are the consequences for the treaty if the Netherlands does not ratify at all? Finally, I come to TTIP and CETA. Fortunately, today the Commission has decided to submit the ratification of CETA both in the European Union and in the national parliaments. That's good. Can I ask the Prime Minister how he feels about this investment arbitrage, the ICS? Does he think that this should be referred to the national parliaments first? If it is first approved in Europe, it will enter into force for three years, as I understand it. Then the parliaments will have checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u17	Mr. Chairman. The political crisis in the United Kingdom has only worsened since the Brexit. UKIP leader Farage resigns, Corbyn loses the support of his Labour colleagues and Johnson does not want to become prime minister. What will the British and the European Union expect if the smoke is lifted? What's the Brexit gonna look like? My party has many questions about the outcome of the European summit. Many questions have not been answered. Will the Brexit be put on hold until Cameron's resignation, or will the United Kingdom be forced to take steps quickly? Several Member States, EU institutions and directors take different positions on this issue. What happens if the United Kingdom does not implement Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty? Is it true that Article 7 may then be used, imposing sanctions against a Member State? And if a withdrawal agreement is implemented immediately, will a new treaty with the United Kingdom be worked on simultaneously? What type of European cooperation does the cabinet consider likely, or desirable? Is that the Norwegian, the Swiss, the Canadian, the Turkish or the Chinese model? Or anything else? I would like to hear the Prime Minister's views on this. Several Member States have expressed their views on the future of the European Union as a result of the Brexit. The SP aims at a new European treaty, with greater sovereignty for Member States and greater attention to social policy. Chancellor Merkel has already indicated that he is not in favour of a new treaty. Poland is opposed to further federalisation and is in favour of a new treaty. Slovakia, the new President of the European Union, also wants to give power back to the capitals. What is the Prime Minister's commitment to in the process of reflection on the European Union? What does he mean by the wish that the European Union should return to its core tasks? Is this possible, in his opinion, without a treaty change? During the debate on the outcome of the Ukraine referendum, the Prime Minister said that only after 23 June, the day of the referendum on the Brexit, an open discussion could take place in Brussels on the adaptation of the Ukraine agreement. This did not in any way justify the outcome, with a clear majority of the population saying no to that treaty. Can the Prime Minister tell us what progress was made at the summit? What are the next steps? Under what conditions is he prepared to sign the agreement and under what conditions does he not decide?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u18	I hear Mr Van Bommel saying in one sentence that he wants more sovereignty for the Member States and more social policy for the European Union. This seems almost contradictory, unless Mr Van Bommel thinks that social policy should be one of the core tasks of the European Union. I would welcome that, but so far he has clearly not thought so. So does the SP want to add a core task?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u19	My group, my party, has ideas about social policy in Europe. Social policy should not necessarily mean establishing social security, but could also mean, for example, preventing workers from being played against each other. The free movement of workers in Europe currently means that by avoiding all kinds of rules, not paying pensions and so on, workers from Poland in the Netherlands are competitive with Dutch workers. That is a bad thing, and that is antisocial policy. So that's what we have to prevent. We need to take measures for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u20	I fully agree with Mr Van Bommel. If you want to settle that, it requires regulation at European level, so that we can work things out. Then you can settle that in a fair way. I agree that there are workers who work here under collective agreements and under poor conditions. That means that we want more Europe there, doesn't it? Does Mr Van Bommel agree with me that there should be a little more Europe for this, precisely in order to regain confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u21	Your question is a very nice opening to indicate the difference between GroenLinks and the SP. You think that this will require more Europe, but I think that it will require stronger Member States. I think it is important to be able to question the free movement of workers when it comes to disruption of your own labour market and then, for example, to be able to introduce work permits. There I see the solution to this problem. That is a different solution from that of GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. Initially, there were four adjustments to the association agreement on which the government was committed: no membership of the European Union, no security guarantee, no extra money to Ukraine and more anti-corruption. Were all these four points appointed at the summit? Does the Prime Minister recognise that the people have said no to the whole treaty and not just to a few parts of it, and indeed to the mp's view? The question is what the amendment of the Treaty will look like. The solution must be legally binding, but everything has been said. Will it be an annex or an amendment to the Convention? If the latter is the case, should the Treaty again pass through all parliaments? I'd like some clarity on this. It is a victory of democracy and the pressure from the bottom that CETA, the trade agreement with Canada, has become a mixed treaty. Now the way is open for a referendum. That's what we're gonna do. I know that many are afraid of it, but a referendum is desirable in such far-reaching treaties. The wish to proceed as quickly as possible to provisional application, after approval by the Council and the European Parliament, is less good. As far as we are concerned, CETA can only enter into force after maximum participation by the Member States. This means at least only after the approval of the national parliaments. Ideally, it is also after a referendum. Can the Prime Minister give an initial response to the proposal, indicating which parts fall within the competence of the Member States and which parts are EU only? What about, for example, ICS, the Investment Court? Is it true that the Commission still wants to label CETA as EU only if the European Court grants that status to the EU-Singapore Convention? Several motions have been adopted in this Chamber on CETA, requesting the government to work for a mixed treaty and not provisional application to certain parts. At the request of the Chamber, there should also be a parliamentary retention of treatment, now that the Commission has made a proposal on provisional entry into force. However, a motion has also been adopted which encourages the government to approve CETA as soon as possible. Can the Prime Minister indicate how these motions relate to each other? Is the treatment retention now in place? When is the Council expected to ratify CETA? When would the provisional entry into force take effect? Finally, the Dutch Presidency. My party looks back on the Dutch Presidency with mixed feelings. I see missed opportunities. Two of the great so-called achievements of the Presidency are the Turkey deal and the tax avoidance package. Under the Turkey deal, human rights are systematically undermined, which means that the EU is trading with its own values. The tax avoidance package is so undressed that we can hardly expect any more effect. There was also criticism of the lack of leadership of the Netherlands after the Brexit. I share that criticism. How does the Prime Minister look back on the Presidency? Does he share the criticism of the Turkey deal and of the tax avoidance package? To what extent does the Prime Minister have confidence in the new President of Slovakia, a country that in the past has been unwilling to accept migrants, and has the necessary criticism of the common European asylum approach? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u22	Mr. Chairman. After their country, the Brexit foremen also have their own lives back. With Nigel Farage and Boris Johnson leaving, the brexitchaos are complete. None of them had or has presented a plan for the future and none of them dared to take responsibility for the chaos they themselves have created. If I had belonged in the UK to the Leavest buckets, I would be betrayed and abandoned at the moment. The outgoing Prime Minister of England doesn't know what to do now either. Meanwhile, EU leaders have gained understanding of the chaos in the United Kingdom. That might be good. I can feel that compassion, too. I do feel compassion for the British people, of which a small majority have been deceived by false populists, by the rat-catchers of Hamelen. Let us hope that does not happen in other countries of Europe. That does not alter the fact that steps need to be taken. From the European Union's point of view, it has been rightly stated that no negotiations will take place until Article 50 is put into effect. My group supports that. Otherwise, we'll only make the pot even bigger. That's a legitimate decision. Brexit is also an expression of discontent with unfair globalisation. That's what GroenLinks politicians say, but also The Economist. I'm just translating it freely from English: as the Brexit shows, people turn away when they feel they have no control over their own lives or not to share in the benefits of globalisation. That's what happened. It should be a wake-up call for us. Mr Voordewind is right to ask us: what are you learning from here and how to proceed? However, it seems that EU leaders are not alarmed, but want to go even further along the path that has been taken. It is bizarre that antics are now being pulled out to bring bankers from London City to other EU countries. Our Ministry of Economic Affairs is sending additional officials to London to recruit companies. And our Prime Minister suddenly sees room in the bonus laws. What room is that, exactly? Let me make one thing clear: GroenLinks does not see any room in the bonus legislation, nor in any other requirement that we impose on banks here, zero. This can't be happening! That is also the title of a booklet by Mr Joris Luyendijk on the banking sector. It can't be true that we're like vultures in the chaos in the UK trying to get some peanuts out of there. Unbelievable. On 15 September there will be an additional Council: the reflection on a new EU, an EU that works. I want that too: I want an EU that works. But I would like an EU that works fairly and for everyone. Trust in our European institutions and the European Union has become increasingly fragmented. We have to face that, whatever the cause of this. We are not solving this by removing obstacles to the internal market. We are not solving this by going back to the core tasks imposed by neoliberal leaders in Europe, namely the Europe of the market and currency, which is not the case, because that will not restore confidence in the European Union but will further undermine it. The Council wants a deeper and fair internal market. We want a deeper and fairer society in Europe. That's what it should be about. It is also about the worker who is uncertain about his job and salary, and about young people who are in large numbers unemployed in Europe. But what do European leaders do? They're starting a new competition by lowering corporate tax. This can't be happening. Should not an honest European Union put a stop to this sort of thing and seek cooperation? I'm just taking a side step to the Ukraine referendum. It's just that the Brexit has gotten into the background a little bit. The Prime Minister has discussed a number of concerns in the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u23	Are you ready? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u24	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u25	Mr Grashoff is now going to the Ukraine referendum, but I wanted to ask him about his previous point. I understand the criticism. There is hardly any reflection that Commissioner Timmermans calls for. One wants fast forward, fast forward with that further integration. Does Mr Grashoff's criticism now include that GroenLinks is questioning that principle of the 'ever closer union', which continues to integrate in order to solve the problems? Does Mr Grashoff's criticism also mean that he is in favour of giving Member States the opportunity to brake, for example with a red card as promised to the British? Can I explain Mr Grashoff's criticism in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u26	But very partially. As far as we are concerned, it will really be a question of further integration on a large number of issues. I have just referred to the social area in my interruption to Mr Van Bommel. If you want ordinary people to reconnect with and feel confident in a European institution like the European Union, then you will also have to do something on that social side. I would like to see the SP on my side to acknowledge the issue that is always on the agenda, namely that the European Union should not really be dealing with social matters. That is one of the missing links in the European Union that we should just fill in in a good and fair way and with very sound European rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u27	Then I would like to invite Mr Grashoff to talk to those truckers about whom Mr Voordewind was talking or with the people in the meat processing industry or with those other people who are suffering from that competition from workers from, for example, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe who are working against working conditions other than our workers. That really is a problem and that is not going to be solved from Brussels. We in the Netherlands have to solve this. That is why we must also be able to put a brake on the free movement of workers if that is at issue and it causes problems. It is now causing problems and you are not going to solve them from Brussels, Mr Grashoff. I would therefore really like to call on you to look again at your own ideas on social policy in order to give Brussels more room for manoeuvre. We really will have to do that ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u28	I completely disagree with Mr Van Bommel. That's just finding a way back where it doesn't exist at all. If we are going to torment the foundations of the European Union, such as the free movement of persons and goods, then we are on the soap slope down. But the opposite is possible. You can make good rules at European level to ensure that there is no unfair competition. That would be a fairer Europe. This would strengthen Europe's support. That is a much better route, which would, in the end, and in the sense of our prosperity development and in the sense of our freedom, help us to move forward where we want and in the sense of ensuring that Europe is united. I also call on the SP to come to terms with this and not to call for 'less Europe' but to work with us on a new and better Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u29	Following on from Mr Van Bommel's question, do you think that the package that was in February and which was finally negotiated with the British, such as the passages on the ever closer union and on the red card procedure, should still be taken up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u30	We weren't that excited about that at all. It was at that time a negotiating package that was there to try to keep the British inside. In that sense it had some value and you will have to deal with each other at some point, but we have never been enthusiastic about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u31	So not about the red card procedure that was in there, either? That is, after all, something that is happening now when it comes to the feeling of the English that Brussels' power is coming over the Member States. If you introduce this red card procedure now, at least you will put a brake on it when Member States say that this really goes beyond our borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u32	Let me try to respond a little nuanced by making a comparison. As far as CETA is concerned, we are talking about a mixed agreement that requires ratification at Member State level. In my view, Mr Voordewind agrees with us very much and we share that feeling very strongly. And yes, there will have to be a European Union that distances itself from Juncker's arrogance. That's all true. We're gonna have to listen. European politicians will also have to be people who are heard and seen and who appear in person outside the Brussels offices. If we want a living democracy at European level, that should also be the issue. A situation will then have to arise in which people can identify with political movements and political leaders at European level. That has not happened so far, and it is absolutely necessary to take steps. Perhaps you'll hear a common thread in my answer, Mr. Chairman. That is what Europe wants to change, but does not want to go back in the direction of gradually moving a roseade around our national borders. That won't be the answer. I'm here to talk about Ukraine. The Prime Minister has raised a number of concerns with the Council. Those concerns, which we read in the report, are correct. However, the aspect of corruption is not included. Did the Prime Minister also mention this aspect? One of the important themes here was the feeling of having to do business with a country in which there is strong corruption. This could be a very important point in order to get something out of this wonderful discussion about the Ukraine referendum in a positive way. We could take advantage of it with each other, including Ukraine, if we got tighter. Does the Prime Minister intend to go into that? The Council has again discussed migration. Yes, that is an important European issue. I believe that without the European Union on migration, we would not be making a dent in a package of butter. Has the Prime Minister also mentioned that it might be rather wonderful to speak in terms of real partnerships with countries such as Eritrea and Sudan? It cannot be true that we are building real partnerships with Sudan, whose president is wanted for war crimes, and Eritrea, where civilians are cruelly oppressed and crimes against humanity are committed. That can't be true, can it? In any case, that is not the Europe we would like. Can the Prime Minister answer that? If we need a European Union for something, it is in the area of migration. The Prime Minister has made an appeal to work on relocation at last. That is what we are getting from the heart, but when does he expect the results of this call? Finally. We want a European Union that works for everyone, an EU based on commitment, on trust, where ordinary people feel safe and heard. Not a single market, but a society, a social Europe, a sustainable Europe, a free Europe. That is not less Europe, but more and new Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u33	Mr. Chairman. It's not common, but I'll start with a compliment. Excellent results have been achieved under Prime Minister Rutte's EU Presidency. For example, 61% of the Dutch voted against the treaty with Ukraine and Britain regained its independence. That's-that's-that's-that's-that's-that's-that's-that's-that's great. Despite the scaremongering, despite the threats, we already see the economic benefits of the Brexit. Countries like the US, Canada, India, Australia and Mexico are eager to conclude new trade agreements. The British Stock Exchange has also fully recovered. In short, the fear-raising EU elite are enormous. That's very good to see. For three months we have not heard anything about the results of the Ukraine referendum. According to Prime Minister Rutte, it will even take months: the total contempt of the Dutch electorate. This while it's all so simple: no is no. The whole treaty needs to be cancelled. No negotiations on a compromise in Brussels backrooms, just listening to the voters and not ratifying the treaty. Despite this, it seems increasingly that the Prime Minister will ignore the outcome of the referendum. Is it true that he wants to sign the treaty unchanged under the condition of a separate legally binding declaration? If that is the case, it will lead to only one fair conclusion: the withdrawal of confidence in this Prime Minister. Citizens deserve a prime minister who succeeds the results of referendums. The europhiles do not care about democracy, because even after the British 'no' they go on and on and on and on. In a week, Brussels gained more power over Dutch pensions, opened a new chapter for Turkish accession and presented plans for its own military power. The European Union is completely lost, and that is why, like the British, we must leave. My group has already tabled a bill for a nexia meeting. Goodbye, EU, welcome to the rest of the world! On to new economic cooperation with countries where trade is growing. We live in historical times. The EU bubble is breaking up in the short term, and we are already freezing the champagne!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u34	Mr. Chairman. Nothing is what it seems in the Brexit debate. The last time we spoke on this subject, most politicians and media convinced that a Brexit would be a disaster for Britain and Europe. It sounded like British elderly people who have only ten years to live on average have completely ruined it for all those British young people who wanted to stay in the EU. Great Britain would be thrown back in the Middle Ages and there was a concern about the companies that would leave Britain, with all the consequences for the British population. That was the image of a week ago, but how different the world looks a week later. On second thought, the Brexit was more widely worn among younger voters than among older voters, Ionica Smeets counted us in the Volkskrant last Saturday. The fear that international companies would leave the UK after the Brexit was mainly motivated by opportunistic dreams on the continent of Europe. The Belgian Prime Minister Michel made the crown. He understands the concerns of British companies about their access to the European market and announced last Monday that Belgium will start an advertising campaign as soon as possible to draw British and international companies out of the UK. Last Monday, het Parool headlined: "Amsterdam as a safe haven after Brexit." The newspaper also said that there is a meeting at the Stopera to open the hunt for British companies. Our Prime Minister also promised to turn a blind eye to the bonus arrangements. If that is the face of European solidarity, it is more like rejection reactions as we know it from sectarian relationships and acidified marriages. According to Heleen Mees, the Brexit could happen because the British winners of globalisation, especially the bankers, systematically refused to compensate the losers of globalisation, in her words the working class. In fact, the financial sector's misperformance bill has been largely deposited with them. Does the Prime Minister share her opinion? Is the cabinet prepared to stop the next step towards globalisation? In these uncertain times, free trade agreements, such as CETA and TTIP, should only be made in place. In Brussels, the Netherlands must plead for a pass on the spot. I would like a response from the Prime Minister. The Dutch electorate said no in the Ukraine referendum, but the cabinet is now looking for ways of ratifying the Treaty in Brussels. However, the referendum was not about a middle course at all, but about a clear yes or no. Can the Prime Minister promise that he will respect the outcome and that there will be a repeal law? In France and the Netherlands there have been referendums on the European Constitution. There has been a Danish referendum on judicial cooperation. Furthermore, in the Netherlands there has been a Ukraine referendum and in the United Kingdom there has been a Brexireferendum. Again and again, the EU's traditional policy has to make its mark. Should we not even get rid of the idea that everyone who sees salvation in this EU is a well-thinking citizen who stands for order and justice, peace and security, and that EU critics are by definition rigid, populist-enticed impulsive ones who are guided by gut feelings, nationalism and xenophobia? Is it not time to recognise that there have always been well-thinking and sincere citizens, scientists and politicians who have warned against the undemocratic and reckless way in which the EU has taken shape and is governed? Several people have indicated that discontent among citizens is stirred up by, among other things, the monthly movement circus from the European Parliament to Strasbourg, the transfer of power and the rushed culture of subsidies, in which, for example, the Dutch calf farmer receives 92% of his income from the EU grape? The euro is seen as a sacred bead. I mean grail, but bead's pretty, right? In this case, however, it is a grail. The Heads of Government recognise that there is dissatisfaction among citizens about the current state of affairs in the EU. They also recognise that citizens are right to ask to do better. The Heads of Government say that they are starting a political reflection process today. What's with the surprise? What's with the late reaction? The reflection process must give impetus to further reforms that are consistent with our strategic agenda and with the development of the EU. So it says, "Reform that is in line with our strategic agenda." Isn't that exactly what the citizen has tobacco from? What reason does the Prime Minister have to assume that this approach will be experienced by citizens as more than hollow rhetoric that makes it clear that citizens' concerns have not been heard? It is high time to think about a different Europe and a different kind of European cooperation. A Europe composed of sovereign states that decide democratically to tackle cross-border issues together, share important values and agree to defend them together. Think of nature and environmental protection. A Europe where sustainability and compassion stand above short-term economic gain and in which citizens play a greater role in decision-making than banks, multinationals and Brussels officials. Such European cooperation, in which compassion and sustainability are central, will also mean an end to the bio-industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u35	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch presidency of the EU is finished. How does the Dutch government look back on this? One of the central objectives was less and better regulation. Can you just give three examples, I ask the Prime Minister, of cases where less and better regulation has come from the commitment of the Dutch Government? During the debate on the outcome of the Okraine referendum on 13 April, the Prime Minister said: "So, first of all, it is quite clear that if by summer it is not possible to reply to the outcome of the referendum with which we can go to the farmer and go outside, the cabinet will also propose to the Chamber of Representatives not to ratify. That is clear, then." The question isn't whether it's summer right now. The question is: has the government managed to formulate an answer? If so, what is that answer? If not, does the government then make the proposal that was previously described as "ready to go"? What's the new deadline? The report states that the government wants to find a legally binding solution to the concerns of the Netherlands. Can the government indicate better what is "legally binding"? Does that mean at least a paper containing 28 or 29 signatures? Or can something also be legally binding if it is a one-sided or two-sided statement? Speaking of Ukraine, the relatives of the victims of the MH17 disaster have been waiting almost six months for a letter to President Poroshenko. The government has previously indicated to the Ukrainian Government to urge that the letter, which deals with the missing radar images, be answered quickly. When did the Dutch Government draw attention to this in its frequent contacts with Ukraine? What was the reaction? Then the Brexit. After reading the Council conclusions, I conclude that the President of the European Parliament and the Heads of Government seem to agree. This consultative referendum must be implemented as soon as possible. What a change, after the previous tone of referenda in France, Ireland, Denmark and the Netherlands and all the other referendums we have had on the EU. I have also missed an in-depth analysis of the will of those who remain at home in all these debates. The Dutch Government is right to say that the negative feelings about the European Union that emerged in the British referendum also live in other Member States. That is right, and the CDA Group welcomes the fact that an informal summit will be held in Bratislava on 15 September from the 27 EU's main countries on this issue. Is the government prepared to draw up a reform agenda for that summit and forward it to the Chamber before 1 September? We often talk in abstract form about what needs to be done, but I fear that this will take too long. We would like to have concrete proposals. Indeed, it is rather worrying that the reform package that would address these concerns has been withdrawn not only for the UK but also for the other 27 countries. The question is whether, for example, the Dutch Government still supports the red card procedure. At the EU-27 summit, which took place the day after the European summit, i.e. the summit without Britain, the countries decided to access to the single market requirements acceptance of all four freedoms. That's a lot to say. It means that Britain will not have access to the customs union, which is about goods, unless it also agrees with, for example, the free movement of persons. Is Britain not treated unequally here with regard to all kinds of other countries which have association agreements which only concern parts of these four freedoms? I would like to hear an explanation of what is meant here. There has also been talk with Turkey and there has been a ceremony to open a negotiating chapter that has brought us a little closer to Turkey's membership. How does the European Union and the Dutch Government assess the human rights situation in Turkey, the country with which that new chapter has just been opened? When will we get an update on the visa roadmap and the outstanding points Turkey has not yet met? And has there been talk with Turkey as a whole about a few things: to dismiss judges, to persecute large groups of opposition MPs, to waive parliamentary immunity or to allow the Turkish secret service to export weapons where only the President may prosecute someone? The latter never happens. Turkey and the EU are both dealing with ISIS. We've rightly remembered that here. This organisation commits genocide, according to the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and the American Congress. Recently, the UN has also recognised it. That is what ISIS does by enslaving and stoning people and committing mass murders and genocide. Jezidis, Christians, but also religious Muslim minorities who do not exactly have the interpretation they want are the victims. Do the Dutch Government and other EU governments recognise that there is currently genocide? I say this because we can talk about the refugee flows, but we must also talk about the cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to refer to three points: Ukraine, the Brexit and the future of Europe. I can be brief about Ukraine. It is unclear what the nature and content of the government's proposals are for a satisfactory solution. Actually, I only have one question. Why is this still so vague and can the Prime Minister explain the substance? Can he indicate what steps are being taken to do justice to the 'no' to the association agreement? What does the follow-up process look like? I agree with questions that colleagues have already asked. The Brexit is the other hot iron. Still unexpectedly, a majority of British voters chose to leave the EU. After the initial group of six states continued to expand from 1973 onwards, 2016 is the year in which the EU is declining for the first time. That is an unprecedentedly exciting development. You could write a detective, a thriller, about it. It must have a lot of open ends. Although the Brexit has adverse effects in the short term, there also seems to be light on the horizon. There are even reports of low growth in the British economy, but in the longer term the effects are unclear. Much depends on how London and Brussels handle the Brexit. The lack of British leadership over the right way forward is not encouraging. The same applies, however, to the head in the sand and the sometimes aggressive reaction of people like Juncker who use this to try to move European integration forward at a very rapid pace. They see this as a solution to the political crisis. I would say: hearing deaf and seeing blind. Meanwhile, the pressure on Juncker to resign seems to be increasing. But would his resignation be the solution? Isn't that a little cheap? The criticism is precisely about Juncker's fundamental EU vision and like-mindedness: rücksichtslos go on moving towards more EU rather than listening to the citizens, standing on the brakes and looking for new ways. I would like to ask the following question. Is the Prime Minister prepared, in line with previous proposals and in consultation with the European Council and the House of Representatives, to promote concrete, targeted steps leading to the strengthening of national parliaments and governments within the EU, including in view of the envisaged consultation in the autumn on the future of Europe, the reflection? That brings me to my third subject: a reformed Europe. That is something the Prime Minister should address in particular. The SGP is absolutely in favour of European cooperation in certain areas. Free trade between European countries contributed to peace and prosperity. Cross-border problems require coordination between Member States. Think of the fight against trafficking in human beings and environmental pollution. This coordination must not be at the expense of the principle of subsidiarity, but must be complemented by agreements of a supranational nature. A commitment to efficient and effective cooperation is something other than the creation of another European service, an army, an OM, you name it. Cooperation in external security action is also needed. We see the advantages of good cooperation and good coordination and of a certain transfer of powers to the service of the policies of the Member States. Now, however, the roles are reversed. The basic feeling among many peoples, a basic feeling which I think is also at the root of the Brexit, is that the Member States have become a service to Europe. The upside-down world! We must not get rid of the EU, but we must get rid of the EU in its present form: not lift it, but reform it. This reform means cutting European competences. The European Commission should have fewer tasks and less budget available. It was rightly pointed out from Brussels that the EU should use the summer to reflect on its priorities. I very much agree with that, but I am not entirely confident that this reflection does not go further along the path of the ever closer union rather than changing the course and choosing to think from the perspective of subsidiarity: what can European cooperation, what can an EU add to the service of the European nation states? I call on the Prime Minister to respond to my speech and to his vision of Europe's priorities. What should the EU not do in terms of vision? A strengthened influence of national parliaments, including in conventions such as CETA, can contribute to restoring confidence in the EU. It is clear that this recovery will not come on its own. It takes wisdom, leadership, choices and a long breath. The recognition of CETA as a mixed treaty could provide a first glimpse of hope that there might be a reflection on whether we should pursue this path. This step will certainly be followed up in a referendum, which I am not in favour of. The litmus test for whether Europe has a future is perhaps how the EU's supporters act. We are very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u37	Mr. Chairman. Our prime minister had something to say at the summit last week. The Dutch Presidency has been a historic Presidency. The worst thing that could happen to the EU has become a reality: a Brexit. The second economic power of the European Union, the EU's first military power, has decided to leave the EU by a majority of 52%. This has led the EU to the brink of collapse, and this will not be improved in the future. Also nexit stands at the door and many other exits. The EU once made a sacred promise to the electorate. The EU would build bridges and bring prosperity. Anno 2016 we take stock and see that Europe is torn apart, that the population is split, that deep gaps have been drawn between the highly educated elite and the people. Everywhere in the EU, the call for an exit becomes louder and louder. The citizen doesn't want to be a cosmopolitan. The citizen wants to continue to cherish his own identity. He wants to show solidarity, he wants to share prosperity, but then with his family, with his neighbors, and not with fortune seekers from Africa and the Islamic world, with people who do not share his values in any way and who do not contribute to the community. Citizens no longer want to skim money and prosperity to maintain the transfer union that the EU is in the end. France, Italy, Austria, Sweden, Hungary, Ireland, Poland: everywhere there is massive resistance against the EU and, above all, against its own political elite, against the elites that our countries hand over to unelected bureaucrats in Brussels. In 2016, the EU has become a transfer union, redistributing massive money and prosperity to Southern Europe. To Greece, for example, which is being imposed such tight measures by Brussels that the country is de facto bankrupt, without any chance of recovery. A 50% youth unemployment rate and a massive emigration of young Greeks, who no longer see a future in their own country. That is the state of the Union now, a community that stumbles from crisis to crisis and, in every crisis, opts for the flight forward, for more federalisation and for more transfer of sovereignty. It has become a disaster led by President Juncker. Of course he threw oil on the fire of the Brexit: resentment, hatred, fear sow. A very bad loser. Is his position at stake? I would like a response from the Prime Minister. At the European Summit last week, the Prime Minister would negotiate the outcome of the referendum on the association agreement with Ukraine. It is almost three months since the referendum was held. Apart from the result, a crushing no, there is nothing on the table, except for an initiative bill to withdraw, tabled by our party. According to the law, the Prime Minister must present a proposal as soon as possible: withdraw or submit. How long has this Dutch referendum been discussed at the summit last week? Has that actually only been 20 minutes, as I understood from the media? And is it true that the subject does not live with the other Member States at all? Three months the Prime Minister interpreted and explained the outcome of the referendum. We never asked for that. As far as we are concerned, it was clear, but he came to the conclusion that there are three concerns at the camp: the fear that Ukraine will become a member of the EU, that it will receive EU funds and that it will receive military assistance. My question to the Prime Minister is: where did you come up with that? Has there been a representative study of the so-called pain points of the no-voters? Then where's the investigation? Can we still receive and assess that? Or has the government been guided by a gut feeling, in the vein of: that will be the pain points? Did she think that if we comply with this a little bit now, then we can simply ratify that treaty unchanged? For the sake of clarity, the voters do not want a treaty, they do not want a treaty at all; no was, is and remains no, and we are not satisfied with less. Let me think with the Prime Minister. He wants to add those three concerns that he miraculously miraculously pulled out of his top hat, in an annex, in a kind of side letter. He also wants to make this legally binding. How's he gonna do that? Is he going on tour of those 27 countries? Countries which he himself says are not interested in the outcome of the Dutch referendum. I would like to hear an explanation from the Prime Minister. How does that declaration become legally binding? Will it become as binding as any other government statement, for example that Turkey would never become a member of the EU, even though chapters have now been opened again? First, the Prime Minister wanted the time up to Brexit. He did not want to burden his colleagues in Europe with the result of the referendum in the Netherlands. During the debate on the outcome of the referendum, he said: it can only lead to decision-making immediately after the British referendum; I am going to do so before the summer. During that debate, he also said that if it was not possible by the summer to reply to the outcome of the referendum, a response that would allow the cabinet to come out, he would propose not to ratify. We are now right after the breach, it's just before the summer, but the Prime Minister hasn't come up with an answer that will allow the cabinet to come out. These are three compelling reasons why we should now decide not to ratify the Ukraine Treaty. Only that does justice to the will of more than 60% of the electorate. These are the reasons why I now call on the Prime Minister to decide not to ratify the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u38	Mr. Chairman. Now that the United Kingdom is completely on fire after the breach, the political pyromaniacs Johnson and Farage are anxiously fleeing. It seems like a April 1 joke, but in reality the exposure of populism is of course complete. Millions of ordinary British people are in uncertainty. Other citizens of the Union do not know what to expect. It is therefore important to clarify this as soon as possible. One thing is certain: that clarity will not come from Cameron, Johnson or Farage, because they ran away with fear, on to their next student joke. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: what exactly is the European Council's commitment to exit negotiations? The letter with the report sent by the cabinet is very much intertwined. I think the Prime Minister himself is doing the same. Last week we were told that the exit negotiations would start in September 2016. This weekend would be December 2016. Today was the news that it will probably be in the autumn of 2017. Are those sounds true? Why isn't pressure being put on the Brexit camp to take responsibility and stop the increasing uncertainty? I'd like to get a response. The United Kingdom is not the only Member State to have a referendum result. The European summit also discussed the association agreement with Ukraine. I read that the Prime Minister is looking for a quick, satisfactory and legally binding solution. What's he got in mind? When will he present proposals to the European Council? And when will our Parliament see these proposals? I'd like to give you a tip of the veil! I am curious to see what the Prime Minister has in store for the cabinet, of course, cannot get away with a simple spill-over. I would like to comment on the precise commitment of the cabinet and the timetable used, because we have been waiting for more than two months now since the last debate we had in the Chamber. In last week's debate on the Brexit, almost every group leader talked about a wake-up call. Those sounds were also just heard again. I'm glad everyone's awake now! Then we can finally get through the reforms that are needed to make Europe better! Europe can and must do much better. People are simply expecting solutions to the major problems of our time. It is therefore a good thing that an additional European summit on the future of Europe should be included. What is the Dutch commitment to this summit? What reforms are we going to implement? In addition to an oral reply this evening, I would also like to receive a reply by letter with a timely and comprehensive commitment to the summit. That is necessary because I always see good deeds from this Prime Minister in Brussels, but then again in The Hague hear flat and negative texts about the European Union. Precisely this double attitude confuses voters, which is the last thing we need right now. You know my party as a party that is constantly putting forward ideas for a more decisive and democratic Europe. In order to ensure that Europe regains the confidence of the people, we need to step up our efforts on the cross-border and major issues of today: refugees, terrorism, a stable euro and the climate and energy crisis. That must be done without the cramped nationalism that I have just heard in this Chamber. It must also be done without this sham sovereignty, but with functional European powers. It is safer if, for example, we force national security services to exchange information among themselves. It's cheaper if we buy our energy together. At the same time, a better Europe is sometimes less Europe, as every level of government must always be critical of what it is and what it is not about. More decisiveness also requires more democracy, starting with a stronger European Parliament and a more effective European Commission with fewer Commissioners and, of course, a different, much more transparent and more agile European budget. Is the Prime Minister prepared to come forward after the summer with proposals for concrete steps to make the EU more democratic? I like to get a reaction. Besides the actions, which are very important... I'm going to the next block, so this is a very natural moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u39	I felt a new block coming up...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u40	Sure, it's gonna be a good block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u41	That's good. I'm gonna hold on to that. I would like to ask a question about the reforms you are now proposing to the government. I am glad that you have a clear commitment, because I have not yet been able to hear it from the cabinet. I hope you will have answers to your questions and I will have answers to mine. Do you realise that your proposals require a change in behaviour?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u42	It could be. We are concerned above all with practical steps which are immediately practicable. We have taken these practical steps, for example, in this Presidency. For example, a European coastal and border guard has been established. D66 has been saying for years that it needs to be there. It is effective, it ensures more security and better protection of our borders. This proposal is in line with D66's commitment: to do what must be done cross-border. That has been perfectly possible. I am sorry that we are always talking about integration views and treaty changes, while we can take a lot of practical steps to get Europe to solve major problems already. Let's start with that, please. If our proposals for a different budget and for a stronger European Parliament require a treaty change, then of course we will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u43	The D66 proposals touch on the institutions of Europe. You come to the European Commission, you come to the European Parliament. You'll automatically end up with a treaty change. I don't know where it came from, but you're having such a hard time with referenda these days. So know what you're getting into, because you'll find me on your way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u44	For the latter I am not afraid at all and there is just no D66 fear of referenda. We've been very clear about referenda. It is neat if you stand still, Mr Van Bommel, instead of smiling away from the camera and not even listening to the answer. That's how we fail each other. D66 has been for 50 years for the same kind of referenda, namely referenda after the Second Chamber and the First Chamber have decided on a law or treaty. We finally have a law for that. We've had a Ukraine referendum. If anyone was excited about that, if anyone tried to make it a success, it was D66, not the Prime Minister. A little Harry van Bommel and a little Han ten Broeke; I haven't seen anyone else. And Mrs. Maij, I apologize. So D66 has no fear of referenda. However, it must not be the kind of bullshit referenda Cameron has done, as Wilders so badly wants and as Mr Bontes so badly wants, namely referenda where politicians no longer make any choice, dare not show leadership and say: let me ask the people. We absolutely don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u45	Last Monday we also had a debate on the European Union. Then the question was asked to Mr Pechtold: are you for or against a political union? Mr Pechtold kept moving away from those words. That is why I have a question for Mr Verhoeven to clarify what D66 wants now. Do you want a political union now, yes or no? And do you want a federal Europe, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u46	We've always been clear about this, too. As far as we are concerned, a political union is a very clear and good endgame. We are called federalist and europhile every day, so we do not doubt that at all. Just the answer to that... you want to run away again, don't you? Interrupt in, go to Twitter and move on! No, just listen to the answer, or we're gonna run out of ourselves. The answer is clear, but it's more than a yes or no. That political union and that federal Europe are still so far away and the people are looking so hard for solutions. In the meantime, we must also dare to take steps. These are the steps that I am proposing now, and these are the steps that the Prime Minister is always taking. Only then will he keep his mouth shut about it, because he is afraid that the voter will get angry about it. So yes, the final picture is clear. However, there is also an interim period, and that period must be used for good things. Let's not use that superstate caricature every time. I also heard Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union. His input seemed to be from the PVV, with all "superstate," "monster" and "speed train shipping." If that becomes the caricatures with which we are discussing it, confidence in Europe will never grow. I just don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u47	All I ask is whether D66 supports her own views as written in her election programme, in which she also says she wants a directly elected President of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u48	Sure. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u49	It is a good thing that Mr Verhoeven stays there. That's just clear again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u50	We support our own proposals. As one man and one party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u51	Mr Verhoeven was just very critical of me at the interrupting microphone. Now he even proposes to look at where the European Union could carry out fewer tasks. I am actually curious to see that this is the mirror image of what I was saying, where he sees that the European Union is doing too much at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u52	This is an interesting question. I think there are many examples to come up with. D66 has always voted against that in the House of Representatives. Let me give you two examples. I do not think it is the most important examples, but at least they are concrete and that is always pleasant. A proposal for mandatory energy labels has been put forward at some point. D66 said that she was not waiting for it, that it was not a sensible proposal and voted against it. Another proposal that came from Europe a few years ago was to double the number of times you had to have a car tested. That is something that the Member States are perfectly able to regulate themselves. However, each time they are small, relatively insignificant and a lot of irritating examples where everyone constantly stares blindly at them. The curved cucumbers and the long ladders of Mr Voordewind. Those are caricatures. At least I dare say, Mr Voordewind, that I think it is a good idea to force national security services to exchange their data, by forcing it through Europe. At least I dare say that there must be a European border and coastguard, because the Member States cannot do so sovereignly. At least I dare to say that we should not be cramped with buying energy per country, whereas this can also be done in Europe as a whole. So I have a story that's pronounced on both sides and you're just sitting on one side all the time. I would therefore like to ask you to come up with proposals on matters on which you dare to extend Europe's competence. You never dare to do that, and I find that disappointing, because it is sometimes necessary to solve people's problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u53	I also find the reaction interesting, especially because Mr Verhoeven just said to me that I make a caricature of everything. Now he mentions a number of interesting examples, such as that energy label, of things that we could do very well per Member State. I mentioned those ladders of the glass cleaners back then. Mr Verhoeven refers to this example again. These are the irritations that make people wonder what Brussels is about, why Brussels should now be sending at such a micro level. The caricatures he calls and which he blames me for, therefore, he himself calls as irritations of the citizens. Let us now draw up a joint list of things that Brussels could do less. That could perhaps take away the great irritation and concerns of the Dutch citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u54	That is not the way to remove citizens' irritations. Those lists have already been made by the CDA in the past. Then it was in the paper with a top ten of things we're going to get back from Brussels. If you had two people looking at that, it turned out that nine out of ten things didn't come from Brussels at all. The rules I do mention to make clear your caricatures, not because I think they are such good examples, all of which are constantly reflected in the debate and almost all of which have not come from Europe. I am prepared to look at a way in which the European Union can do the things it is good at. Municipalities must do the things that the municipalities are good at, provinces must do the things that the provinces are in, and Europe must do the things that Europe is good at. However, you are not prepared to reason that way, Mr Voordewind. I find that very regrettable, that one-sided: only the red card, the brake, the retreat. I think that is the loss of the European Union and the debate that is taking place in the House of Representatives. In this respect, I found your input very disappointing today. It was really nourished by fear of the lower abdomen. Instead, let us look soberly at the European Union. I find that disappointing of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u55	Here we go again, the fear of the lower abdomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u56	Everyone has a lower abdomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u57	Right, everybody's got a lower abdomen. Isn't that a huge dedain when you talk about the 52% of British voters who voted for a Brexit? Isn't that a huge dedain, given the depravable state of the Greek economy? That land is on the edge of the abyss. There is a great deal of suffering and poverty. There is no future for young people there. This is all due to the centralised EU of Mr Verhoeven. Mr Verhoeven has already chosen that flight to the front. However, I have another question. How does Mr Verhoeven appreciate the position of President Juncker?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u58	Mr Beertema began by giving a very long introduction in which he said that there would be dedain to speak out of my attitude. I see that all the parliamentary groups are diving at the 52% and saying: that is the 52% that we stand for now. Let D66 be the party that also has an eye for the 48% who wanted to stay in the European Union. I take the concerns of all citizens about the European Union extremely seriously. I mean it. There is nothing about dedain or elite thinking, but I am simply listening to the concerns of the citizens. But I simply disagree with Mr Bertema's solutions. Those are fake solutions, and with fake solutions we can't move forward. People like Mr Beertema, his colleague Mr Wilders, Farage and Johnson are fooling the electorate. They're all lying on the day before the referendum, and after the referendum, they're running away. Well, I don't really want anything to do with politicians like that, because they're really fooling the voters. Running away after you've booked a win, I think it's really elitist. If you've made a victory, take responsibility. I just think that's really bad about the style of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u59	I want to hear an answer to my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u60	You asked me what I think of Mr Juncker. Well, Mr Juncker is President of the Commission. I can find anything about him. I think he's made some clumsy statements. That's what we've said before. He said something about the Ukraine referendum in the newspaper. He should have kept his mouth shut about that, and that was not wise. Furthermore, as far as I am concerned, Mr Juncker's position is not at all at stake. Moreover, I am about the last of all the people throughout the European Union to have anything to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u61	Yeah, I'm lying because it's about the survival of the euro. If it gets serious, people have to lie. We'll decide something. We'll bring that in. Then we wait some time and see what happens. If there is no misfit and no uprising breaks out, most people don't understand what has been decided then we'll go one step further. According to Mr Juncker. That is your Mr Juncker, Democrat 66, Mr Verhoeven. That's the gentleman you're not criticizing. You put the fate of those Greek young people, who are fleeing their country, among other things, in the hands of this Mr Juncker. I'm bitterly disappointed by someone who calls himself a Democrat 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u62	That is the opinion of Mr Beertema. It's his right to find this disappointing. However, I am at least as sorry as voters are fooled and if you say: we are going to transfer 350 million a week to health care. I am at least as sorry as your electorate says that the borders can be closed and that a nexit would bring a lot of prosperity and freedom. Those are real lies that are demonstrably incorrect. The Brexit has shown that. In that sense, I do not think it is appropriate for the PVV to address D66 on what Mr Juncker said, which is not in any way connected with D66, but is simply the President of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u63	Mr Verhoeven blames several colleagues for making caricatures of EU action and the scope of the Union. I don't think that's true, that's a heavily overlaid frame and it doesn't add up. Let us look only at the plans made at the beginning of the current parliamentary term of the European Parliament. These plans were made for Europe's reforms and dealt with the question of what points the EU should no longer interfere with. That already gives clues. This already shows where Mr Verhoeven could be looking. He could find points in which the EU is interfering, but should not interfere. A second example is the action of the EU's great men, a Mr Schulz, a Mr Juncker. Does Mr Verhoeven find the statements and actions of these people reassuring? Does that mean that we can rely on the EU to move in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u64	I was about to paraphrase the Prime Minister. I say "almost." "Always wise" I hear the Prime Minister now say from box K. But paraphrasing him is, of course, extremely unwise for a spokesperson of a growing opposition party. I am not in a position, and it would not have any added value, if I were to do reviews, I think the Prime Minister said so yesterday by European officials such as the Social Democrat Schulz and the Christian Democrat Juncker. I'm an ordinary democrat. We have a European Parliament group, which I would like to review. He's doing great. It is a very active four-headed fraction that watches what happens every day. Unlike all those parties in the European Parliament who do nothing and look away and are constantly talking out loud here in The Hague, we have a four-member D66 group in the ALDE Group led by the, as far as I am concerned, well-functioning Verhofstadt, who is on top of the dossiers and playing the game where it has to be played. For that I think a positive review is in order. I think it is right for others to speak out about all European officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u65	Then I will broaden my question and include the Liberal Verhofstadt. Does Mr Verhoeven think that it is wise to see how these leaders have expressed themselves at EU level, set themselves up and looked in the direction of the Brexit? Does he think that is the way the EU should proceed? Is that the path that Mr Verhoeven has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u66	I find a bit of the surprise that is widely shared by the European Commission, the European Union, the European Parliament and the European Council. The Prime Minister didn't use any tender words for that either. Then it's about the actions of the three leaders, all three of whom ran away. At first, that was Cameron. It's been pushed away under pressure. That's still somewhat understandable, but that's different with Farage and Johnson. Those two political pyromaniacs, who have been at the forefront of lying for months after lying to embezzle the electorate, ran away. I find some firm terms in the direction of those people and towards that style of politics companies in place, yes. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u68	Mr President, may I ask a final question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u69	We're doing interruptions in threes now, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u70	No, it just went in threes, so er...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u71	I would like it all, but I would also like to hear the Prime Minister, because he has a number of important things to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u72	Mr Verhoeven has also had a few in three, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u73	I think it's excellent. I find it very interesting to talk about Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u74	Moreover, Mr Verhoeven is not about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u75	I'm not running away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u76	Mr Verhoeven has a bit of a backdrop on the answer. Does D66 share the way in which the three gentlemen mentioned have acted in the example? Does D66 say that we should continue to expand and intensify the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u77	I think I'm the only party that didn't get around the hot stuff today. I've been clear about what we do want. I have been clear about what we do not want and I am not going to review people because parties are asking me to. Let me ask you some substantive questions about Europe. I dare to answer that honestly, but I'm not going to give my opinion on all people. I myself sometimes make a mistake in a debate. Well, luckily today isn't so bad, but I'm not at the end yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u78	I think this is really weird. He is all criticizing politicians in the United Kingdom, which he is not about at all, but when it comes to the Commissioners, whom we are dealing with, he suddenly says: I am not about that; I am not going to review them. Then who did? Then who is she supposed to check? Then who's to put them back in their booth?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u79	You do all that, don't you? You have all the reviews about it and then I should go along with it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u80	It is about the European Union, which is moving in a certain direction, and the majority of the people of Europe, in view of all the referenda, are gradually saying: 'Whoa, we do not want to go any further; we have had enough of the Eurocrats there in Brussels just going through.' What does D66 think of these European Commissioners, who do not care about what lives in society? I just want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u81	I'll be very clear about that. I'm very critical of all those who ran away when it got difficult. If Mr Juncker is running away now that it is difficult, I think it is very bad and I will say something about it, but as long as he is still there, I am not going to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u83	Fine. I wanted to talk about words in addition to actions. If the Brexit has taught us anything, then it is that the continuing Brussels bashen is extremely damaging. Pretending that the European Parliament is a party committee looking for a party, putting up ghost stories about our pension that would be on the European sale, and spreading lies about the nexit as if that were a liberation; it's false nonsense, which is useless. My appeal is: let's stop doing that. Finally, the Netherlands has been EU President for six months, in difficult times. The effort and energy shown are worth a compliment. In fact, there were results: the European Border and Coast Guard, chapeau, a deal on clean air, excellent result, and a conference on the European budget which is likely to go down as the first step towards a flexible budget to be adopted annually. The European Union's deal with Turkey, which has often been acclaimed, has also been closed by a great deal of energy from the Prime Minister and all his people and officials. By the way, my group still has serious doubts about this deal, because Erdogan only has to snap his fingers and the whole deal collapses. The conditions in the Greek hotspots are still poor and on the Turkish side there are still reports of shelling of Syrian refugees. After complimenting the Prime Minister, I ask him whether he intends to continue to appoint the framework conditions to ensure that it does not get out of hand. Even after the end of this presidency, it is not time to sit back. In fact, the reform of the European Union is just beginning. Hopefully, the Prime Minister will continue to be the pro-European President who dares to take action and will not become the Eurosceptic VVD list leader who will pass out populist anti-Europasians in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u84	Mr. Chairman. I would like to go through the point that Mr Verhoeven concluded with, namely the Dutch Presidency. I congratulate not only the government but also the support services for this. It is very good how they have given the Netherlands a pragmatic presidency. Mr Verhoeven mentioned some of the good things that have been picked up. However, the British referendum overshadows the end of the six months. Last week, the Netherlands drew up an ambitious package for deepening the internal market. This package will have to deliver more growth and more jobs. How will this be implemented in the coming period? A package of amendments to the Detachment Directive has also been presented in the last six months. A number of parliaments have drawn a map of this. These changes have been made to make the European labour market fairer: equal pay for equal work in the same place. It must also combat repression and exploitation on our own Dutch labour market. In addition, the European Union, led by the Netherlands, has concluded an important agreement on tax avoidance. That too is historic. This has been done to ensure that profits can no longer be diverted. It makes the Union fairer, but I am concerned about it: all this has so far only been on paper. How does the government ensure that these priorities of the Dutch Presidency will be taken up by the next Presidents of Slovakia and Malta? How does the Netherlands support the Slovak Presidency in transferring these files? The deal with Turkey has also been concluded under the Dutch Presidency. The Netherlands played the role of blower. A step has been taken to make migration flows more manageable and to provide refugees with a better process and better protection. This is not only about better border monitoring, but also about the protection of asylum seekers, providing perspective and actually achieving relocation and resettlement. It may be a bit of a ritual, but in every debate I ask the Prime Minister about the commitments made by the Member States to make people, resources and money available for the implementation of that deal. And what about the resettlement? After all, that was part of the deal. When does it get off the ground? This is an important point for the PvdA. We hope that these steps will also be taken. Then I come to talk about the Brexit. The PvdA is disappointed by the British people's choice for a Brexit. Perhaps I should say that the UK was an important ally in the EU for the Netherlands. We also see that political and economic instability in the UK is the direct result of the referendum and the choice of a Brexit. As far as we are concerned, relations with the UK need not be strengthened. The UK will need some time to put political order in order and to have a prime minister at all in the future. The UK will need some time to pick up the hot potato from the Brexites that ran away and left the junk behind. At the same time, there will be an informal discussion in Bratislava between 27 Member States on how to proceed. The functioning of the EU will be reflected. Some colleagues have already referred to it: there are wild and less wild plans about what to do now. Can the government outline how these processes take shape? What exactly is the government's status in this? The PvdA is a passionate supporter of European cooperation that brings prosperity, stability, security and peace to us. In fact, we can all see the added value of this cooperation. However, the European Union is also a source of frustration, as several spokesmen have already spoken about it this evening. There is a complex decision-making process, a lack of transparency and an endless search for compromises. The PvdA believes that we need to work harder towards a better Europe where citizens recognise themselves better and from which they can derive hope and visible results. There must be no movement towards a federal Europe, but the approach must be pragmatic and social: European cooperation for the inhabitants of the Member States, not for the European Union market. The latter is a means, not the goal. The internal market is a means of generating prosperity and well-being. That's for sure, but it's got to be better. We therefore think that there is no point in a nexit, because it will cause the internal market to fall apart. We see what the populists have done in the UK: they will take their toll as soon as they have a little responsibility after they have won their referendum. We think it is important that we discuss the next steps on this issue. Now I come to the Ukraine referendum. We have understood that it is understandable that this has come a little into the tribulation of violence around the brexirefementum, but we do think it is important that progress is made in this area. In the referendum, the Dutch electorate clearly indicated what they wanted, and this must be done right. We are confident that the government is working on this, but we are asking the government exactly what the commitment is and what the field of action is. Is it expected to be discussed at the next European Council in the autumn? Finally. I saw a message from the Ministry of V and J passing by with a list of results achieved during the Dutch Presidency. It would be nice if we could get something like this from other departments. Will there also be an evaluation of the Presidency?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u85	Mrs Maij talks about the Ukraine referendum and the government's commitment to this issue. It refers to a European Council in the autumn. However, the Prime Minister had promised the Chamber to come forward with the Dutch response before the summer. The summer has now begun. Doesn't Mrs Maij think it's too late for autumn?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u86	I have said that we understand that it has come a bit into the tribulation because of the discussion of the Brexit. I have asked the Prime Minister a number of questions: what exactly has been discussed, what are the steps and what, according to him, is the force field in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u87	Now part of the first term is repeated, but I had heard that; hence my question. What is your wish regarding the timetable? When will the cabinet finally have to explain what will happen to the outcome of the referendum? "Before the summer" was the promise, but it is not kept. That's what we're used to from this Prime Minister: $1,000 and you name it. What should the Prime Minister deliver according to the Labour Party and when?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u88	I repeated it for a moment, because I got the impression that you hadn't listened to everything or that you hadn't fully understood it. That's why I thought it might be nice to fill that out again. I want to hear very clearly from the Prime Minister what exactly has been discussed. We saw a little bit in the report. There's a direction in that. As I have just indicated, I would like to know what steps are being taken, what the possibilities are and what the force fields are. I then made it quite clear that, in my view, we have said this earlier in the debate, and that we do believe that the result of the referendum should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u89	The timetable; I asked about that, Mrs Maij. The timeline. What does the Labour Party demand of the Prime Minister with regard to the timetable? Finally, there must be clarity. They didn't make it to the summer. The Labour Party agrees. What is the wish, the demand, of the Labour Party in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u90	First of all, I would very much like an answer from the Prime Minister to the question of what steps are being taken. That's what I said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u91	I do not hear Mrs Maij show a great deal of sympathy for this huge group of people who are Eurocritical. Mr Verhoeven of D66 is clear. He's a fundamentalist europhile who just wants to move forward. Does Mrs Maij share his view that all the euro critics, all those carpenters, truckers and greenhouse builders who had to become zzp'er because they were replaced by Poles, Romanians and so on, are somewhat stupid people who let pyromaniacs push themselves up? Does Mrs Maij share the concerns of these people who should actually belong to her party? Does Mrs Maij share their concerns or does she also say: they are stupid, flat nationalists, populists, xenophobic and so on? That's what D66 says. Does Mrs. Maij share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u92	In my view, I have just made it very clear in an interruption to Mr Voordewind that we consider it extremely important that there is equal pay for equal work in the same place. Part of this is to thoroughly review the Detaching Directive so that the carpenters, plumbers and truckers you are talking about are not competed away and are not replaced. In my contribution, I have made it clear that this is happening at the moment because of the possibilities that exist in the Detaching Directive. I am far from the bathing words you try to put in my mouth. I didn't use it. I also find it uncomfortable if you try to put it in my mouth, because I just didn't use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u93	You distance yourself from those words of your colleague Verhoeven, I understand. Even so. If you're so smart, why do you open these boundaries first and let all these people come in massively? And if there is indeed disruption, if all these people are in the shit, if all thosezzp'ers who don't want to becomezzp'ers, then you're gonna scratch behind the ears and you're gonna say, "Maybe we should come up with an extra directive." Isn't that a little late, Mrs. Maij?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u94	Before I give you the floor, I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven, because his name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u95	In his interruption, Mr Beertema mentions all of the things I have supposedly said. He's all stamped on D66, extremely cowardly. I just stood there endlessly. Then he could've asked all these questions. He's done it carefully once. Now he calls things all over a curve. A point of order: things I have not said should not be put in my mouth, because that is a strange way of debating things. Just do it one-on-one. Don't you dare do that. And don't ask Mrs Maij not to follow my words every time, because I didn't even say them like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u96	I heard them clearly and D66 still has a second term and then we can talk about it. Now to Mrs Maij's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u97	The free movement of persons and workers within the European Union is properly regulated when people can comply with collective agreements. Then you have an honest comparison. Then you're right on pay for right work in the same place. It is precisely the Detachment Directive that makes it possible to work here, without the social conditions that we know and therefore cheaper, as Mr Van Bommel said. I am not saying that we need a new directive, but I am saying that the directive that exists is not good. We need to adapt and change it so that competition and exploitation, but also the displacement of people into the labour market, do not happen in this way anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u98	That greenhouse builder in the Westland would have liked the PvdA to have arranged that at the front and not afterwards, because now those houses are underwater and those people are in trouble and they blame you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u99	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u100	No, that wasn't a question. I can tell you that this directive is from 1997 and that it is now working completely wrong. You must always have your facts in order. Finally. European cooperation means peace, security and prosperity. The Europe of solutions increases the issues and not the Europe of craziness in the details. It is a European cooperation that strengthens our country. It is now important to work together for better European cooperation, so that it offers hope to the people who Mr Beertema is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u101	Mr. Chairman. In last week's debate, several spokesmen have also said that the European Union is no longer creating a sense of security and prosperity, but increasingly a feeling of uncertainty and threat, of having no control over your life. Open internal borders become a problem if you have no control over the external borders and if you do not properly guard them. And then it doesn't tell people so much that the European Union is good for economic growth and jobs, and thus for social security and good health care. The question is: what about the European Union? There are actually two groups of people. Some people are happy when a country leaves, when the European Union falls apart and when the borders are closed. We have seen in the United Kingdom what that can mean and what risk it can take. However, there are also urophils, people who always and with every problem say that more Europe is the solution and want to let the train pass. But because of that, you run the risk of that train going through to the end station, when there's no one else in it, because everyone jumped out on the way. When people jump out of a thundering train, that often leads to mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u102	What a beautiful metaphor!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u103	We benefit greatly from the European Union, and that was clearly stated last week. International trade generates 2 million jobs. It brings us a lot of money, billions of euros, but also jobs and tax revenues that allow us to pay for social security and care for the elderly. In short, we are taking huge advantage of it. We also talked about the wake-up call last week. Has it arrived? An informal European Council will take place in Bratislava on 15 September. The new Presidency has chosen that city because Brussels is found contaminated. That is why we want the Council to take place in another capital city. That's a symbolic choice. As far as the VVD is concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u104	I see Mr Van Bommel standing, but I suggest you finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u105	As far as the VVD goes, we're gonna do a few things. We need to look closely at what major issues are at stake and how we can solve them. I take migration and the economic crisis as examples. This means that we must also make agreements with African countries, as we do now with Turkey, and we must control our external borders. But it also means that we must keep the agreements, because the budgetary rules in Spain, Portugal and France are good, but must be applied. The European Commission has the power to intervene and must do so. She is now too much an referee who dares not whistle and holds the cards in his pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u106	Mr Mulder outlined at the beginning of his speech that the developments surrounding the Brexit mean that there are two groups in Europe: those who want to jump out of the train and get your mess and those who want to rush through. But I believe that the VVD in the European Parliament is also part of the group that, under the leadership of Guy Verhofstadt, wants to move towards political union. Is Mr Mulder going to defend that tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u107	I already told you that urophils shouldn't continue with that train. As far as I am concerned, Mr Verhofstadt is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u108	Isn't it time for the VVD to say goodbye to Mr Verhofstadt's leadership? After all, that is her leader in the European Parliament. It would be wise to start another group with other like-minded or critical liberals, if I may call them that? The VVD, together with D66 and Guy Verhofstadt, is part of ALDE, the Liberal Group in the European Parliament. That can't be pleasant, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u109	Mr Van Bommel is actually calling for a kind of coup in the ALDE Group in order to dismiss the leader. It is no secret that the VVD Group here and Mr Verhofstadt differ on the question of where to go with Europe. Fortunately, we also agree on many points, for example on the internal market, and that is what binds us. But I am not saying anything new about Mr Verhofstadt here, because I believe that my predecessor and also European Affairs spokesman has said this more brutally here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u110	Mr Mulder continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u111	I hear agreeable sounds. I have just said that we must keep our commitments and focus on what is important, such as the migration crisis. But my group also asks the cabinet to look into what are the driving forces behind more integration. I have already said in previous debates that the people of a large number of countries within the European Union have more confidence in the institutions of the European Union than in their own institutions. That is not surprising, because if you live in a country once ruled by dictators, colonels or communists, you have little faith in it. But if they want to put down the problems in Brussels for that reason, it will put pressure on them. The Commission sometimes tends to embrace this, as Mr Juncker does with his Juncker fund. The Commission says: come here and we will solve these problems. Can the Prime Minister give an analysis of these kinds of forces and then do something about them? Then you may come to the conclusion that you do not want more Brussels, but that you want to make the Member States stronger. I would like to mention the European Public Prosecutor's Office as an example. A lot of people have faith in our D.A.'s office. I happened to be in Bulgaria last week, and the people there have much less confidence in the Bulgarian Public Prosecutor's Office. They say: let Brussels solve it. Instead of setting up a European Public Prosecutor's Office, let us ensure that these countries themselves have a good public prosecutor's office. I'd like an analysis of these kinds of forces. Perhaps the Prime Minister could comment on this in Bratislava. The Brexit has already been mentioned. I agree with Mr Voordewind's question earlier this evening: who takes the initiative in the negotiations on the UK's withdrawal? Does the European Commission or the European Council take the initiative? We also agree with Mr Voordewind's comment on this, because I think he preferred the European Council. I come to the internal market. It is good that the cabinet in the European Council put the issue of digital single market on the agenda. Perhaps you can use this example to show that Europe works for people. This makes it easier to shop across borders via the Internet. It is ensured that there is no kind of geoblocking that makes it impossible or less easy to buy abroad. I come to speak about the Ukraine referendum. My group welcomes the fact that the Minister has gone on the road with three concerns. In fact, the concerns stem from three motions by Mr Ten Broeke. These motions dealt with the following issues: no EU membership for Ukraine, no extra money and no defence guarantee. They've been apprehended, but they're still being executed. It is always very pleasant for a motion to be held. I agree with Mr Grashoff's question as to whether corruption should not be included. The Prime Minister's report does not provide an exhaustive list. It says something like, among other things, this one. Corruption could be added to that. The Dutch Presidency has been concluded. That was perhaps characterized by events, events. I refer to a statement by Macmillan, former Prime Minister of Great Britain. The Turkey deal is important. There's a lot to say about that, but it works. The number of drownings in the Aegean has fallen to almost zero. The influx of refugees has dried up. The Turkey deal is not the best deal, but again: it works. My compliments on that. My group does not understand that so many parties are opposed, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u112	Are you ready, Mr Mulder, because you are far beyond your speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u113	I just want to say one more thing. I would like to congratulate the officials and all those who have worked hard for the Presidency. I hear purely positive stories about it. All kinds of ambassadors, who had to take people from Schiphol Airport almost every week, were very pleased with our professionalism. I call that an unsuspecting source. Thanks and compliments for the Presidency in terms of logistics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u114	This is what you have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u115	Is the VVD spokesperson aware that people who are now looking at this debate and hearing that in fact there is a bit of a deal within Parliament about what topics can be added to the new Ukraine Treaty in the annex? I refer to corruption, membership of Ukraine as a bit of a feeling of: oh, so it's just going to be a kind of Hague party again? We are going to decide how the treaty is going to be amended a little while the result of the referendum was very clear. It was a "no" to the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u116	Let me put it this way. In the discussions leading up to the referendum, we heard people's concerns about this treaty, this association agreement with Ukraine. These concerns were in the accession to the European Union. Isn't that creepy? What does it mean for military assistance? What does it mean for money to the country? You have to address these problems. That is what the cabinet is doing, and we are satisfied with that. We had said that in three motions. We have not submitted them, but they are still being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u117	During the previous debates on the outcome of the Ukraine referendum, we found that there were many reasons for people to oppose this treaty. I refer to your former colleague, Mr VVD-Kamerlid Oplaat, who, from the chicken sector, wants this Ukraine treaty not to go through because it is the death penalty for the chicken sector here in the Netherlands. So there are many reasons. So you can add them all up and see if you can narrow them down into some kind of annex, into a new treaty. You can also simply do justice to what has resulted in the referendum, namely to withdraw it; to get a repeal law proposal to come here because the citizen has spoken. The answer is simple: no. Doesn't the VVD spokesperson agree that this is the only thing this parliament, together with the cabinet, has to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u118	No, I just said that. We have had debates here. On our behalf, Han ten Broeke has done so in particular. We're gonna get this out, and then you're gonna have to try and fix it. You can say "I'm just saying no," but then that agreement just goes on with all the other countries. Then let us try to bring something in. That is the art and that space we want to give the Cabinet and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u119	In my contribution on the basis of all kinds of insights that you see coming back, I have used the quote from The Economist: is the discontent that exists around the European Union perhaps partly, or perhaps to a large extent, due to the fact that the benefits of globalisation and the benefits of the Union are less common to certain groups in our society? People say: I'm part of something, but I'm not really involved and I don't benefit from it. Does Mr Mulder share that analysis or does he think it is quite different?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u120	I think that analysis is partly correct. If you look at macros of what we make of the European Union, you will see that it also benefits you if you do not have a job. Why? Now, because of economic growth, we have jobs and we pay taxes. You can't forget social security and health care from that. The more you earn, the more you can redistribute. I think that is quite well in the Netherlands, because we have one of the most equal income distributions in the world, with a very high level of prosperity. But the concern is right: specific jobs can be lost. If you are competing away by people from other countries in certain occupational groups, you immediately suffer from it. Then you don't have a-two-three view of those big benefits. Then it's just bothering you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u121	I welcome that answer in itself. Does Mr Mulder therefore agree with me that one of the conclusions, if you want to save the whole story of the European Union, should we say that this should be based on the fact that we are working together to ensure that these groups also benefit from the European Union? This could lead, or perhaps should have the effect, to a number of things being properly regulated in the social field at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u122	That's the question. I was talking about strong Member States. You have to start making money. A big country like France gets away with a lot of things. That's just going down that competition ladder. So that actually makes less and less of a contribution to the European Union. Then social policy does not help so much as France has to make it deserved, also in the interests of all of us. If you have that, you can split it up. That's how you do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u123	Mr Mulder called for a kind of annex to that agreement. He says he knows about what's going on among the voters. It is not known at all exactly how that has been investigated, but well. In addition, he says that if we do not ratify, the treaty will continue. Does Mr Mulder know that this treaty will take place on the basis of unanimity? If the Netherlands does not ratify, the treaty simply does not go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u124	I fear that 27 other countries do not think: hey, the Netherlands is against, we are suddenly not going to do anything. They have agreed, so you will see that they are going to try to do something with Ukraine. Then we have nothing at all. Then we have not been able to settle anything. We still have to wait to see if we can get the security guarantee, nothing about extra money for Ukraine and nothing about Ukraine's possible accession to the European Union. Then we have nothing at all and in the meantime it goes on. Then you're empty-handed. The question is whether you want to do so, or whether you do justice to the outcome of the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u125	We are not empty-handed, because the electorate has clearly spoken. No is no. If we do not ratify, the treaty will simply go away because unanimity is required. Then there is no more unanimity. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u126	I fear that this is not the case, but in the response of the cabinet we will soon hear what might happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u127	I find Mr Mulder's speech interesting in itself, but what always bothers me about the VVD is that one thing is said and the other thing is done. Over the past six months, with the support of the VVD and the PvdA, the Prime Minister has taken many steps to transfer certain powers to Europe and to seek European solutions. What is the short-term picture of the VVD? What should happen? What are the choices the VVD makes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u128	I've just outlined it clearly: make sure you deal with the big problems. This migration has not yet been resolved with the Turkey deal. Look at demographic developments and poverty in Africa. You can see they're failed states. There is, quite understandably, a pressure coming from those countries on Europe. People want to come here. We're gonna have to do something about that. We need to talk about the arrangements. France just needs to reform, so it's gonna earn again for all of us. I also asked what those driving forces are behind more European integration? These are countries where there is less confidence in themselves than in Brussels. Then you see that people think: let Brussels solve it, we do not trust ourselves. That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u129	Does the VVD therefore dare to say that it is right to have a European competence on the major cross-border issues now and then? This has happened, for example, with the border and coastguard, it should be done with the national security services and could be done with the Energy Union? Does the VVD dare to take that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u130	Mr Verhoeven mentions something that we have, of course, had a whole discussion about. I can be honest about these European border guards. Why does it have to be European? Why can't these countries do that themselves? The balance in our group: we do not have time to wait for it, the problems are too great, the European Border Guard. Those are the considerations that we are making and then more Europe is helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u131	We have come to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u132	I propose that a maximum of two times per group should be interrupted with a question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u133	Madam President. Thank you for all the kind words about the Presidency, especially towards the Netherlands. There have been awfully hard work done by people at the Foreign Office, in the posts, but also in all the departments of the trade. A great deal of work has been done to ensure that the processes in the trade councils were successful. I mention the meetings in Amsterdam, the whole logistics surrounding them. I have to say, that's really been a huge operation. I note that there is a great deal of appreciation for this in the rest of Europe. A letter will be issued tomorrow with an evaluation by the Presidency. I would like to mention a few things: the agreements with Turkey, the European Border and Coast Guard, the agreements on combating terrorism, measures against tax avoidance, deepening the internal market, the fourth rail package, medical devices, conflict minerals, the directive on clean air and the Amsterdam Pact on urban development. Things didn't work out or didn't work out well enough. For example, we have not been able to make enough progress with the Posting of Workers Directive. We want to achieve more, so we will continue to do so. So much for my general comments on the Presidency. There are two main categories of questions: about the Brexit and about Ukraine. Furthermore, a lot of questions have been asked on all kinds of other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u134	Mr Omtzigt, the Prime Minister is busy for one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u135	I think this was the block on the presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u136	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u137	I'm glad that evaluation is coming to the Chamber tomorrow. That's very fast. One of the main objectives of the cabinet was less and better regulation from the EU. This has been discussed for a year. Can the Prime Minister give us three examples of which he says that we have managed well there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u138	I can name 4 times 28. Last week, at the European Council, we agreed on a deepening of the internal market in services, digital, capital and energy. These will lead to the removal of 4 times 28 sets of rules and the replacement of them by simple rules applicable to the whole internal market. That is an example with which you roughly delete about 100 lines and get 4 for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u139	The Prime Minister is now saying: I have more European regulation and I can therefore abolish national rules. What the government said at the beginning of the Presidency is that we think there are too many rules coming from Brussels. My question is: what rules have been abolished and what rules have not been introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u140	I answered that question last week. That whole review will come in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u141	If that question was answered last week, can we just get four examples? I can't remember them from last week's debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u142	In last week's debate, I answered this question. In the autumn the whole overview will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u143	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u144	I'll be on the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u145	Mr President, I hope you will not let the Prime Minister get away with this kind of answer in the rest of the debate. I ask one question about the EU Presidency. The cabinet had a central theme. A lot has happened, but at the end of the Presidency, the Prime Minister can give zero examples. That's not an answer, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u146	I outlined that we have removed more than 100 lines. I think that's a nice result, and it's only about one field. So there's a lot more to name. The detailed overview will be presented in the autumn of the first Vice-President of the Commission. I share the view of everyone who is very disappointed with the decision of the United Kingdom. This is not only economic bad news, but also geopolitical bad news. A lot of people live in fear, concern about the instability in the world. The Netherlands is a small country with 17 million people with high prosperity. We must resist the instability in the world. This requires security and a sense of security and security. This is largely due to the fact that we are working together with others. We also find this security in this cooperation. It's bad news when a country leaves. To those who see reason to say: those smoking heaps on the other side of the Channel, we should try them here too, by starting an exit strategy ourselves, I say: I would weigh that idea well on the hand and taste it on the tongue. I do not think it is a good idea and I will oppose it with everything I have in me. We don't play games with people's interests and jobs here. Those who propose such an exit do exactly that. Then there are a number of more concrete questions. What's the procedure now? The Lisbon Treaty contains Article 50, which is triggered when a Member State decides to withdraw from the European Council. The European Council will then have to adopt guidelines. The Council shall, depending on the content of the proposed withdrawal agreement, also designate the negotiator or head of the negotiating team of the Union as the answer to a question from Mr Mulder. That is what the Council is doing. Then the negotiations will take place between the Union and the Member State on the withdrawal agreement. In doing so, account must be taken of the framework of future relations with the State which wishes to leave the Union. In the end, after two years, it has to be clear whether it all worked out. That's the process. The Council plays an important role in this, or even has the lead. The Commission also plays a role in this. I can tell Mr Van Bommel that Article 7 is obviously not on the table here. Article 7 shall apply only if there is a serious breach of the values on which the Union is founded. I can tell Mr Omtzigt that there is no question of the UK being treated differently from countries with full access to the internal market which are not members of the European Union. Those are the countries that are part of the EEA or the EFTA. So you think of Norway, Switzerland and Iceland. They must all accept all freedoms, including freedom of movement. Then, of course, what will happen to the February package? In fact, that is unclear. Strictly speaking, this package is now off the table, assuming that the UK will trigger Article 50, even if it remains to be seen whether the UK is actually going to do so. As soon as that happens, it was agreed in February that the package and continued membership of the UK are linked. That is also my answer to Mr Omtzigt's question about the red card, as it was included in that package.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u147	I was just chewing on the word "hiddenness." The EU would ensure security. What I am wondering then is what that word, which the Prime Minister is dancing so easily about, means concretely. Security. Is he talking about security for the large multinationals, who have an enormous interest in the internal market? Or is he talking about the lack of security that the British rural population, for example, feels? Is he referring to what the unemployed plumbers feel, who gets the bread thrown out of the mouth? They do not experience that security at all. They only experience that they are standing alone, that their government is abandoning them, that the whole ruling elite is abandoning them, that the whole elite is showing solidarity with the million refugees arriving across the Mediterranean, while they are forgotten. They miss the security that the Prime Minister is talking about so warmly. Does the Prime Minister also appreciate the sense of lack of security of all those people who have just missed the boat by the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u148	Look, I'm talking about completely different subjects. Europe is not an island. There is great instability outside Europe. Look at Russia, Ukraine, Syria, North Africa, Libya, the Middle East in general, the threat of attack, terror, terrorism. These are matters of concern to me as Prime Minister, which concern a great many people in the country. I think it is our joint task, and of course I feel that it is particularly important to ensure that the country knows how to protect itself, that we do everything we can to counter these uncertainties. The Netherlands is a small country. In two hours we are from here at the German border, and in two and a half hours we are from here in Delfzijl. Then it is important that in that very small country of the Netherlands, where 17 million people live, in this prosperity, we do everything we can to seek cooperation with others. We do that in the European Union. In this cooperation, we also find security. Those who say that we should resign take two life-threatening risks. Really, I think it is unacceptable risks and I will always oppose them. First of all, they take the risk that the Netherlands will be in the brink of this uncertain international world, no longer within that European cooperation and thus no longer able to respond to those feelings of fear and uncertainty that we all feel, for which we feel responsible. Secondly, Mr Bertema has a point in itself that does not only bring good things to the European Union. A lot of things are not going well, but in the Netherlands we have more than 10 million jobs. We know that about 2 million of these jobs depend directly on our people and businesses doing business and trading across Europe, which leads to jobs here. That's 2 million very good reasons to think very carefully if you want to get out of that collaboration that you're bringing, and if you want to put those 2 million jobs at risk. Look what's going on across the Channel! Scotland and Northern Ireland want out. The whole political system has collapsed, both the friends of the PVV and the parties in the middle. The pound is at a low point and has dropped again today. The number of companies that claim to stop investing in British business has increased enormously. A lot of companies that came to England because they thought they had access to the internal market, say: "Wait a minute! This has become extremely uncertain. We have to get out of here now!" In doing so, the cork of the British economy, London, is responsible for about 15% of the wealth in England with a huge spin-off, currently in great danger. I find it irresponsible to make a serious suggestion here, and that is what the PVV is doing to take the same risk with the Netherlands. I'll fight that forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u149	This is one of the most woolly answers I've ever heard. I ask a very specific question about the unemployed plumber, the unemployed carpenter and the unemployed greenhouse builder I have just spoken to, but the Minister looks down from a helicopter or even from some kind of spacecraft, at the crawling of the ants. He comes up with a story that the big business, the financials and so on, has such a huge advantage over everything that the EU has fought for each other. My question was: do you also have concerns, appreciation and understanding for all those people who have not felt any benefit from the whole of the EU up to now, who are impoverished, who have to become more self-sufficient, who have their homes underwater, who are no longer getting caught up in the competition of Eastern Europeans, who lead by mass immigration? These are the problems that matter to people, not the position of Unilever or the banks in London. That doesn't really matter to those people! That is where fear and concern come from, and that is where the disgust against those Eurocrats in Brussels comes from today. Say something about that, Prime Minister! That's the point! It's not just about the things you name.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u150	When I talk about more than 2 million jobs in the Netherlands linked to the fact that we are working together in Europe, I am talking about jobs in very normal companies. It's companies with a few people working on the Internet doing business, small entrepreneurs, start-ups. They are companies with 10 to 50 people who are suppliers for larger companies or are very successful in themselves. I have already said that Mr Beertema is absolutely right that there are also people who, often rightly, do not feel represented by that European Union. That is exactly why we still have a lot of things to change, but at the same time 2 million people are at work thanks to the fact that we in Europe are working together. I have a counter-question. If we look at what is happening in the United Kingdom now, at the total chaos that has arisen there, at the fact that there has been a game of people's jobs and interests and at the consequences that that now has for security and economic prosperity, does Mr Beertema insist that his party believes that we should follow this bizarre experiment like the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u151	Mr Beertema, you may respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u152	There is indeed a bizarre experiment, but that is not the Brexit or the next. It's Mr. Juncker's moving train, admitting he's lying to the voter himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u153	Answer me, Mr. Beertema. Do you hold on to a nexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u154	You're back in that train coupe with your fearmongery... in that locomotive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u155	Answer me! Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u156	I'm responding, Prime Minister. You join the urophiles, who only want to move forward, only want to move forward. You have no regard for all the needs of the people who have suffered, who have been impoverished by the EU. You're just gonna ignore that. You're part of the fear-mongering business. My answer is: yes, the Brexit is going to work out well for the United Kingdom. Dare to think, I'd like to give you a hand. Don't go with all that fear bullshit. Those English will come out, just as well as those Dutch will come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u157	This is an important moment. So the PVV says: all the predictions in England, all the experts who say that this leads to a recession, to rising unemployment and to a deterioration of the United Kingdom, who say that jobs are lost and that people are getting into trouble, I ignore. The fact that our collective security and security continue to decline, I ignore. I, as Mr Beertema says, hold the PVV to a nextit. He, his party and Geert Wilders take an unacceptable risk with the interests of very normal people in this country. I can assure him one thing: every step he takes on this road, he will find me opposite. Should there be changes to European cooperation? Yeah, absolutely. But you're not throwing away 2 million jobs. You are not throwing away the collective security and security that European cooperation offers us. This is really irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u158	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u159	I'm referring the Prime Minister to our lovely next report. The Brexit has been a world-shattering event. Of course there is unrest, but the Prime Minister must also admit that it is not so bad in the end. We will see that the situation recovers and that everyone gets better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u160	Ideology, delusions, taking unacceptable risks; apparently, that is what the PVV stands for. We know that they run away: from the Cat house, from the European Union, everywhere. What impudence!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u161	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u162	I see Mr Omtzigt, who I think wants to respond to something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u163	I was handcuffed to listen. Especially the lack of answers from the PVV to the question of whether she still wants that nextit with those consequences, I find shocking. The Prime Minister was right to say that things need to be seriously changed for the European Union; I am only looking in the direction of the D66 colleagues. They're not at the level of less apk inspection. They are indeed at the level of: should we have a red card of parliaments? How do we organise economic cooperation? How do we deal with the problems of labour migration, which are rightly appointed by the PVV, but without any solution? Is the Dutch Government prepared to put on paper its commitment to this Union, with cooperation but with the good responsibility of Member States, before 1 September, so that we can discuss it here, before the informal summit in Bratislava takes place? Now it's stuck in the air too much. It is not necessary tonight, but can we look forward to such a two-pager or a number of proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u164	I think that the EU is going to fall under all kinds of blueprints. I believe that the power of the Dutch Presidency was pragmatism. What I put forward at the European Council this week was no convention, no treaty change. Let us now focus on the implementation of the agreements we have made on two points. The first is safety. Then you talk about fighting terror and dealing with migration. The second point is the market. Then you talk about jobs, about growth, about opportunities for young people in this country, for the children and grandchildren of the people who are following this debate. That's what it's about. We talked about this last week, and we are talking about it now. I don't think anyone's waiting for another big blueprint how it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u165	There is no proposal for a convention here. There is a proposal for a number of concrete measures. I mentioned the red card proposal. That proposal, in the form of a motion, was rejected here three quarters of a year ago by the Dutch Government. After that, when it was in the compromise with Britain in February, the Dutch Government was in favour of it. I don't know exactly where she is right now. There are a number of concrete measures of this kind with directions. Of course there will be negotiations and there will not be exactly the Dutch proposal. I understand that, but I'd like to understand where the government is beyond that little bit of pragmatism. At the moment, the Union needs something more than pragmatism to see what tomorrow's decision is. There's just a little bigger questions at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u166	My answer approaches this precisely from the other angle. The issue we are facing now is of such importance that you do not solve it with a proposal on a red card or other matter. I said last week that where we see opportunities to retain the good elements, that is fine. However, I can assure Mr Omtzigt that if we start the debate on this now, we will not be doing the Dutch people any good. We now have a few much more fundamental questions to answer. How do we ensure that the Union focuses on the essential elements and that it really does what it agrees on in these areas? I already got a question about the 2018 package on the internal market. We have to carry out those appointments. One thing is essential here, namely that we continue to shape the European Union, European cooperation, based on rules and that those rules are applied to everyone. If, for example, countries have to comply with commitments under the Stability and Growth Pact, they must therefore apply to all countries. A number of spokesmen have rightly drawn attention to this. That's what the discussion should be about. I am now so afraid that we are about to have a discussion about a red card and whether we can do anything here or there, when we are talking about these very fundamental questions. As far as I am concerned, we have a good debate on this in the run-up to 16 September. However, I do not feel that I should now come up with a grand vision piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u167	The Prime Minister is now talking fundamentally about the future of the European Union. Without blueprints, but with practical steps. This is the Prime Minister I'd like to hear in the near future. After all, it is a question of taking practical steps. I'm very happy about that. I have one question for the Prime Minister. He says all these sensible and practical things about tackling the big issues in a good way and finding solutions to the problems we face. I fully agree with that. Then why do we have to go through these phrases every time, once in a while, about the party committee that is looking for a party or the European Parliament that would be a meddling job machine? Why do they have to go through every time? Why does that have to exaggerate the other side all the time through this much more serious story about the future of Europe? Why is the Prime Minister's metamorphosis always necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u168	Because apparently the hyperbole is not present with Mr Verhoeven tonight. I just heard him in his first term. He's taken the whole room the size. You can do all that. I think it's my job to name what's going well. Those are the things I was just talking about, like the job machine and things about strengthening our security. However, a lot of things are not going well, and I have to name them as well. I can't just name the beautiful things. I also have to name what's not going well. I guess I'll use a hyperbola, too, but you'll need that equation to make your point. Mr Verhoeven knows that. Tonight he showed this in detail in his first term, like no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u169	Before we start talking about the different hyperboles and metaphors we're using, it's a bit more profound for me. I see that over the past six months the Prime Minister has worked very hard during the Presidency to find a number of European solutions to the major problems of this time. At the moment he reports on this in the media or has to say something about it in the Lower House, he chooses each time just the words that do not do justice to the great commitment of the VVD, the PvdA and all the people who have worked so hard and who have rightly been thanked. My question is, apart from the discussion about the hyperboles, why does he pretend every time that meddling European Union where so much goes wrong is the only thing, when there are so many good things. In such an interview, for example last night in Nieuwsuur, I do not hear the Prime Minister say anything about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u170	Be happy, I'd say. Then don't call it in again. That's what you're doing now, Mr Verhoeven. I'm looking for where it was. Yeah, that party committee's right. I thought that was a nice comparison. I am also very pleased that the European Parliament is now grumbling that it has too little to do. That is exactly what we wanted: focus on the essential elements. That is why the European Parliament is asking where the legislation is. Well, there was enough already. We need less. Mr Omtzigt is waiting for his list and he will get it this autumn: less legislation, no more legislation. Yeah, I'm using equations, and I'll continue with that. We must, of course, make our point as politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u171	That's one of the charms of this Prime Minister, I'll say. I just heard the Prime Minister say that he is prepared to hold a strong debate in the run-up to that meeting in Bratislava. I appreciate that very much. I think that is very good, also to have Parliament's back as a cabinet. But then it would be a good idea to put a few basic ideas on paper? What does the Netherlands want in that conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u172	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u173	That can then be the underlying document and the document on which the debate can take place. That is what Mr Omtzigt is asking, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u174	Sure, but I thought, isn't it much more convenient if I do that already? So I've already given them. I've already mentioned them here. I would also like to put them on paper, but so to speak, we can send this section of the short-term report to the Chamber as input for the European Council at the beginning of September. It's possible. However, I said: no convention, no change in behaviour. I have said that we are now going to build a Union in which what has been agreed is being done. So it's just about implementing, implementing, implementing. It's about execution, execution, execution. We need to get back to some core tasks. I call the fight against terror, tackling the big issue of immigration together, ensuring that we get more out of the job machine, the welfare machine that European cooperation can bring us, that is, the 2 million jobs in the Netherlands. I also mentioned another very important element. Where we agree with each other, they must be respected at a level playing field across the Union. Otherwise, it won't work. The Netherlands has implemented major reforms and cuts. We didn't do that because Brussels wanted to, but because we thought it was important. But with that, we in the Netherlands also adhere to a number of agreements that have been made within Europe about growing to a higher level. Mr Mulder spoke of France. If we were to reform there now, that country would be able to move us to a higher level. The lack of reform is not enough. The same applies to reforms in other countries. We now feel in the Netherlands that these Member States do not have to comply with these agreements. I refer to 2003, France and Germany, but also to situations in recent years. Time and time again it appeared that the Commission delayed the imposition of fines on such countries. This undermines credibility. And so it is essential that there is a European Commission that is not political, but that ensures that the rules are respected by all Member States. These are the elements I would like to put forward in that leg-on-table discussion in Bratislava. That meeting will not provide the answer to the problem. Definitely not. This will be a step-by-step process. I very much agree with one of the ideas put forward by the German colleague, namely to have a few people look inside from the outside. How is it that the Pope talks about "a grandmother" when he talks about Europe? He says: the innovation is now coming from America, from China, from Latin America. Of course, the Pope has a special affinity with that last continent, but he also mentions America and Asia. Why is this innovation not from Europe? We have such issues to discuss with each other, and these are the outlines in which I want to do so. I'd like to put them back on paper, but this is actually my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u175	I think it would be very valuable for the Chamber to discuss this with us. Perhaps there will also be a few points from the Chamber on which the Prime Minister says: hey, it is actually good to add them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u176	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u177	So I do appreciate receiving a little more on this than just the stenogram of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u178	Of course, I had already proposed to have a debate on this in the run-up to 16 September, without expecting the answer, because this is a step-by-step process. However, this will be about the story we come up with. There will undoubtedly be a few footnotes and additional items, but this is the essence of what I put forward last week in the debate on Wednesday. This is at the heart of how I believe we should work together to make this European cooperation more relevant and successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u179	I hear the Prime Minister saying that these are fundamental questions. I hear him say immediately afterwards: my approach is pragmatic and let's just do what we agreed. I feel like those two things don't match. In my view, it should be noted that scepticism about Europe is not at all reserved for countries that are doing badly economically. Scepticism about Europe also occurs in countries that do it relatively well economically. This applies, for example, to the United Kingdom, if you look at it at macro level. So, shouldn't you be aware that something else is going on? A very careful analysis is therefore needed. What is the reason for this breach of trust between parts of the population, on the one hand, and the European institutions and the European Union, on the other? Isn't it true that this fundamental analysis really needs to go a few layers deeper than saying: you know what, let's just do what we agreed? I do not necessarily disagree with the latter. But I see these issues. Then it can't be that the Prime Minister's thinking stops here, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u180	But then Mr Grashoff takes one element out of my speech. That's the element that says you have to do what you agreed to. That is really essential to create confidence. Rules must apply to everyone. They must be respected in a level playing field. I have also referred to a European cooperation which focuses on a few core tasks and which, of course, needs to make the analysis of how we can strengthen the core tasks. Then it's about security and security, knowing you're protected in an uncertain world. At the same time, it is a European cooperation that contributes to people's need to move forward in life, to make something of their lives. By the way, if things aren't right, we have to stand in front of each other to help each other. After all, we have said: a deeper but also a fairer internal market. In doing so, we must define very clearly what we are doing in the country and what Europe is doing. As far as I am concerned, European cooperation is much more limited to the essential elements. I am convinced that at least the first step is to have this discussion with each other. There will undoubtedly be additional elements when we talk about it. That is, in essence, in my absolute conviction, why people say at some point: wait a minute, they are interfering with everything; let us leave it to the Member States; let us do it ourselves. Agreed. In addition, people say that these people do too little to do good in European cooperation, in the Member States, in the Commission and in Parliament. 'These people' are all of us, and so am I, not just Brussels. That's all of us. What we must do is do too little. Only 35% of the European economy is covered by the single market. 65% is not included, to give you one example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u181	There remains a kind of assumption: if we are only chasing our economy in Europe, then it will all work itself out. But there's no evidence for that statement. The European Union has brought us a great deal of prosperity, but confidence has crumbled at the same rate. The issue is not whether you should continue with the internal market and the like, but what you should also focus on, outside or instead. I do not see the Prime Minister taking a stand on this. In fact, I don't see him making an analysis of that. Can I throw one more? I have done this a few times before in this debate. If a significant part of the European population does not feel heard and represented and several analysts say that a large group does not or does not benefit much less from globalisation and the European Union, should we not pay attention to it? So should the European Union not be much more concerned with the question of distribution in order to regain that confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u182	This discussion needs to be separated from a number of ideological considerations that live in one's own political formations. If we do that and allow the debate to dominate, then we will remain in stereotypes. Like I'm keeping a story for big business, when I have a story about small and medium-sized businesses. As if I would have said here: I want a Union that runs on a path of further liberalisation from some sort of freaked out market thinking. I am referring precisely to a market that is deeper but also fairer, which also takes into account fair payments in equal conditions in the different countries. That is the whole agenda that we, as chairman, have been working on under the leadership of Louis Asscher, whom I fully support. It is precisely that balance, but let us try to keep that whole balance in the discussion, because if we do not, we will remain in these stereotypes and we will not get anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u183	We are talking about this balance. On the one hand, the Prime Minister is keen to drive the economy forward, promote economic growth. France must reform so that it can deliver more. In fact, France needs to make more money for the European Union. I would like to look at the balance, because on the other hand, Brussels makes it impossible for France to ban genetically modified maize. Brussels then says: no, France, you just have to allow that on your market, because that's just good; we're going through with it. Does the Prime Minister think that Brussels should be allowed to deal with that? Or can France say that we agree with economic growth and agricultural development, but we do not want genetically modified crops, no matter what Brussels says?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u184	I've prepared for a lot tonight, but not for genetically modified crops. I'm not an expert in that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u185	That is what the European Union is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u186	Let us go to the point that Mrs Thieme is referring to at the heart. Let me take France as an example. That country has a debt against the national income of now around 100%. That country has very limited economic growth and very high unemployment. In France, a lot of people are on the sidelines right now. They're not working; I hate that. I am convinced that if France were to reform more ambitiously, for example in the economic field or in the field of health or social security, you would achieve a higher quality, more people would be employed, more people would be able to benefit from these reforms and more money would be available to help those who are unable to cope with them in any case in a decent way. That's how we did it in the Netherlands. We have reformed so much here over the past four to five years that our AOW and our healthcare systems can be financed for the next few decades. When we started this cabinet four years ago, we had a huge shortage of these big arrangements. Thanks to this Cabinet of Labour Party and VVD, they are secured for the coming decades, so there is also room to invest in other important matters. That is what I wish France. If France does so, you will also fulfil the promise of European cooperation, namely that you are moving together towards a higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u187	Europe is about agriculture. Almost half of the budget goes on agriculture. I'm surprised the Prime Minister doesn't see something coming again when it comes to agriculture. I expect a Prime Minister to know what is going on in agriculture when he is in Europe every week. The question is whether Brussels can intervene in national policy if it is an ethical issue such as genetic engineering. Brussels prohibits France from removing genetically modified maize from the market. That forbids Brussels! Is that something the Prime Minister says: I think that Brussels is about, economic growth is more than anything else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u188	In the run-up to 16 September and the discussions that will undoubtedly take place afterwards, including how to ensure that European cooperation is relevant and adds value to people's lives, we must try to operate on a few broad lines. That is my plea; it may be that Mrs Thieme does not agree with that. I can't decide the debate on my own. To be perfectly honest, I have not prepared for a debate on genetically modified maize. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u189	Mrs Thieme, second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u190	This is about what Brussels is and is not about. When we talk about security and shared values in Europe, we also talk about ethical issues and whether Europe is about allowing genetically modified crops. That is a very big European issue. That is not a small thing only the Animal Party is talking about; these are the things Europe is about. I understand that the Prime Minister cannot discuss this in detail at this time, but I do not ask him to explain the situation with regard to maize. I ask whether Brussels can decide such matters for the sovereign states we know in Europe. That is the key question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u191	I give up. I refer to the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u192	I hope I get a little more answers to my question. In the decision-making process at the European summit, we see a lack of transparency. The Prime Minister told us what his commitment was in Bratislava in September, but there are 26 colleagues at the table. What exactly is on the table? Is it gonna be a leg-on-table session? Those 26 others will come up with ideas, too. I think they've already shared their ideas with the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister indicate what else is being discussed there and how many chances of success, for example, have his ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u193	That's early internship. It wasn't until last week that we agreed to hold a meeting like this. The aim is to build on a form of reflection that will probably continue after 16 September: what is going on and what is not going on in European cooperation? I mentioned my elements. Of course, I cannot yet predict what other countries will do. I can say that the debate at the European Council last Wednesday showed different trends without Cameron. Then you see countries that say: the Commission must do less, more must be put to the Council. I'm not one of them. We are the country that always attaches great importance to a strong Community embedding, a strong Commission, but likes to be based on rules and not on politics. There are countries from the South that are asking for it, because that is more North-South, or all that austerity, all those cuts are needed. Countries in the North say: yes, you really will have to put your economy in order. That is the type of discussion we had at that table, of course. However, there was also consensus. A very large group said: we are not going to deepen, accelerate or federalise now. All these terms have actually been anathema in the discussion. It was said that we are not going to do a convention or a treaty change. First, we're gonna talk very practically about how we make the case relevant. That was a really dominant subject. To be honest, I expect this to reflect in Bratislava, but I cannot, of course, predict exactly what commitment the countries are going to make. Well, that'll have to prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u194	I think that the officials we have just congratulated are still working in the coming months. We can, as the Prime Minister himself indicated, read in the Acts what his own commitment will be. I think it is very important for Parliament to have an insight into the playing field. Can the Prime Minister give us some more information on this prior to the meeting on 16 September?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u195	In moderation. What I hear informally from other countries, of course, I cannot share here. I can't. Well, then that's gotta be public. Then they must have shared that publicly with their parliament. What I hear informally from Germany or the Czech Republic, I cannot share with the Chamber. That must be from public sources. I will see what we can do in that regard, because I understand the question. The officials can do that. That's not where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u196	The Prime Minister is going hard on the British, distastefully, mercilessly and rudely. At the same time as the Prime Minister was President of the EU, Brussels gained more power over our pensions and plans were presented for a European army, for its own military power for the EU. Think about it! The accession negotiations with Turkey were also reopened. A new chapter was opened for accession negotiations with Turkey. That's what happens under the Prime Minister's nose. This is done by people like Juncker, but the Prime Minister is afraid to say anything about it. You can focus on economic growth, on the market and on the internal market, but this Prime Minister is afraid to say anything about all the major abuses I just mentioned. I'd like to get a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u197	It'll help if we stick to the facts a little bit. I challenge Mr Bontes to say where the term 'EU army' appears in the documents that were discussed last week. Because it doesn't have that term in it. Nor is there any impetus for the establishment of an EU army. The Netherlands is against that, too. I believe that almost all Member States are opposed to this. This is another example of scare-making. I think that there is enough criticism of European cooperation, but stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u198	The Prime Minister's just unpacking one. A military force for the EU has indeed been called for. That's what we've been talking about. On the other issues I mentioned, such as the accession negotiations with Turkey, our pensions and the role of Juncker, the Prime Minister is afraid to say anything at all. All he dares to do is play mercilessly and brutally at Nigel Farage and other Britishmen. To be honest, I find that shameless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u199	On pensions, all agreements have been made which correspond exactly to what the Chamber considered to be important. It is precisely the Dutch Pension Federation and the Dutch Bank that welcomed the agreement, because it responds to all the concerns that also lived in the Dutch Parliament. It's a pension market deal. It is important that European rules also apply to cross-border activities of pension funds. Thanks to these agreements, the Dutch supervisor can intervene if a Dutch pension fund wants to leave abroad. In addition, general directives have been agreed to ensure that things in the area of governance and communication are now well regulated. I followed the debate on pensions this week and last week at a distance, and I have heard so much nonsense about it. So let's stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u200	I would like to move on to the so-called European army. I do have a number of statements here, including from Mrs Mogherini. She says that we must move towards a more structural form of cooperation, a European military headquarters. Minister Koenders says that we do not suddenly have to go to a European army. I notice the word "suddenly." Then there is the need for the EU to be able to act autonomously, if necessary, when it comes to a defence force outside NATO. Germany also claims to establish a permanent civilian military chain of command.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u201	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u202	These are all signals that go towards such a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u203	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u204	If the Prime Minister says he doesn't want to, I hope...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u205	No, but it's not. What Mr Voordewind reads is not about that. That's what NATO is for, the alliance for our collective defense. Those aren't instincts, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u206	But I'm not making this up. These are true statements by Mogherini, the High Representative for Foreign Policy on behalf of the European Union. I can give them to the Prime Minister, then maybe we can get a second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u207	Yeah, but there's freedom of speech. Anyone in Europe can find anything. That's inevitable. We have 28 Commissioners and 28 Heads of Government. Then I can find a lot of quotes, all over the place. But in the end, the question is, what do you decide with each other? There was no mention of a European settlement in the decision-making process on the common security and defence strategy. There has been no incentive, absolutely not. And why not? For a reason that we have always found important in the Netherlands. We are not looking for this security in European cooperation, but in the alliance. Absolutely. That's why I'm in Warsaw on Friday and Saturday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u208	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister rightly mentions the IORP Directive, which deals with pensions, and says that DNB now has a right of veto if a pension fund wants to move abroad. Is it not true that under Article 83 of the Pension Act, just under national rules, DNB has a veto on any collective transfer of value, including a transfer of a pension fund abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u209	These agreements are about the pension market and how we deal with pension funds that want to move abroad. I think it's good that this is settled now. All the concerns that have been expressed in the Chamber are also addressed, such as on the harmonisation of capital requirements: no, on delegated powers for the Commission: no, on detailed communication requirements: no, on detailed governance requirements: no, on an obligation for a depositary, on defined contribution arrangements: no. That's all well documented. This was also the subject of a debate with Jetta Klijnsma. If we want to have a meaningful debate about Europe, then here too: there is no European army or Europe is suddenly taking a coup on our pensions. That's just not true. So let us not give that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u210	I asked a very specific question on a point raised by the Prime Minister himself, namely the veto. That veto exists and it already existed. So we do not need European legislation for that. Then the Prime Minister reads a note he received. That's very interesting, but I'd like to know if that veto already exists. Does DNB still have a veto in the new directive if it considers that a pension fund should not move to Malta or Cyprus, because supervision is not in order? Or should he not refuse because they are not grounds for refusal? That is a very important question, because those countries would like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u211	Mr Omtzigt knows very well that he gave the impression in the debate last week that Europe was going to intervene in our pension system. I went into that because I thought that question would undoubtedly come back. The answer is no. In fact, we now have a number of assurances that this cannot happen. I think this is important because a number of speakers this evening are drawing up pictures of the European army and pensions, while we are now dealing with a Brexit. We are faced with great uncertainty about the economic future of cooperation and security embedding. That is why I think we need to speak a little more fundamentally in the coming months about how we can further strengthen it. Then it'll help a lot if we stay close to the facts. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u212	No, Mr. Ommzigt. We are not going to talk about pensions, because I chaired that debate with the Secretary of State here, and enough has been said about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u213	Mr. Chairman. It gives the impression that images are being sketched.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u214	That can be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u215	It's very simple. 80 pages of legislation on communication and the way in which a pension fund is to be set up have been adopted in Europe, whereas this is already in Dutch law. The government did not want to answer any questions about this before this directive was adopted here. We have not had a better example here of how not to introduce European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u216	That's just not true either. This discussion has been held in the Chamber for two years, starting from 29 April 2014. It has been discussed at length at various times. I use it as an example, because I think it is useful to focus on things that are not going well, so that you can improve them. But if we are going to use all these things to score a political point that turns out to be wrong, such as the issue of the European army or pensions, then we are not going to help the debate. That's my only point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u217	No, Mr. Ommzigt. The Prime Minister is now continuing his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u218	I'm coming to the Ukraine referendum. I'll say it briefly and well. Over the last few months, there has been no great interest in discussing this in Brussels in the run-up to the referendum on what we were hoping for then, the continuation of membership of the United Kingdom of the European Union. I also outlined this last week during the debate with the group chairmen. Since last Friday everyone has been working on the consequences of the Brexit outcome, and so there was not much interest in talking about it with each other at that time either. I have pointed out to my fellow Members that I must deal with a situation in which a large majority of the Netherlands have said that I do not want to do so. A large majority rejected the association agreement and the turnout was sufficient to make that referendum consultative. The Dutch Government has said that it wants to take this seriously. It has also said that this cannot lead to automatic ratification. I have also said to colleagues that the chances of success are small. I still think the odds of failure are greater than the odds of success. So there is a greater chance that we will come up with the proposal not to ratify. I'll just say I'm gonna try. I am convinced that if it does not work and we propose not to ratify, the people who voted against will be as irritated as when we propose to do so on the basis of a legally binding agreement within Europe, where a number of concerns are well identified. The form has been asked for, but I really do not know yet whether it will lead to a change in the text of the Treaty or whether it will be done in another way. We are going to talk about this over the next few weeks and months, but I know for sure that if it does not succeed and the conclusion is drawn that we are not going to ratify, then the no-voters will be equally irritated. The reason for this was actually mentioned at the end of the first term of office. My absolute conviction is that the 27 other Member States will not say: the Netherlands does not ratify; then the whole treaty is gone. There is no formal treaty anymore, but that is not how it works, I say to Mr Bontes. Those 27 Member States will say: we want to go on. Then exactly the same thing will happen as happened with the Fiscal Compact at the end of 2011. Then the same thing happens as with so many other examples: one is going to look for a route to do it intergovernmentally. Everything just goes on, while the Netherlands is out of play. Then the no-thumb is also out of play, because he never asked for the Netherlands not to participate. No, the no-thumb wanted the whole treaty off the table. I predict that will not happen either. If the aim is to satisfy the people who voted no in the referendum, then I say that will not be the case if we manage to find a legally binding basis to address the grievances, but that will not be the case if we do not finally ratify. In both cases, a lot of no-voters will say they feel bought. And that is precisely the problem with a multilateral treaty, because we are not talking about what 27 other Member States are doing. Those were all my comments on the treaty with Ukraine. There are a lot of other things, but I am sure they also come up in the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u219	The Prime Minister actually says: no matter what I do, the outcome will always be that the people who voted against this treaty will be frustrated or disappointed with what follows. Why doesn't the Prime Minister carry out these people's wishes? He explains that these people did not want the Netherlands not to participate, but that they wanted the whole treaty to go off the table. I would say just implement what these people have asked and do not ratify this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u220	But then comes the paradox. If we do not ratify the treaty while the rest continue, then we have in no way tried to give a place to the discontent behind the no-vote. I think it is interesting and important to see whether it is possible in Europe to address the discontent, displeasure and grievances that emerged from the referendum. I would like to say to Mr Grashoff that this also affects the issue of combating corruption and all the other issues that have been mentioned. He's absolutely right about that. The paradox is that, against the backdrop of legally binding agreements in Europe in the wake of this discontent and those grievances, you do more for the no-comb than when you say "I don't ratify', while the other 27 simply go on in any form. That's the paradox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u221	All this is based on the assumption that the treaty would simply continue with the 27. I don't share that. It is also based on the false assumption that the fight against corruption and the aid of Europe would not be possible without this treaty. We are already doing this within the framework of the neighbourhood policy. A lot of steps have been taken in this regard. That can just go on. I ask the Prime Minister to stay as close as possible to the outcome of the referendum. That simply means not ratifying it and not going to talk to other countries for months about how you could possibly resolve it legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u222	27 countries have ratified. They're all behind that. What does Mr Van Bommel think that if we do not ratify, then those countries will say: oh, well, then it is off the table; point. Of course, they are going to look for a way of going through that treaty with its twenty-seven intergovernmental. What does Mr Van Bommel say to the no-chooser? He will say, "We have clean hands." He can say that, but the rest just goes on. That wasn't the purpose of the camp, was it? Neekamp wanted the whole thing to go off the table. But that is not the case with a multilateral treaty. You can't give that guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u223	Guarantees can't be given at all. The story of the Prime Minister, namely that the 27 will then continue in the same way, is also an assumption. The Prime Minister is dealing with voters in the Netherlands who have made a clear statement. Then I think you have no choice but to say: we are not going to ratify. That is the outcome of the referendum and it must also be respected by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u224	We are repeating, Mr President, I refer to the previous reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u225	The Prime Minister said on 13 April that if we fail to reach a clear response to the outcome of the Ukraine referendum by the summer, we will not ratify it. Is this Prime Minister holding up this verdict, this breakdown?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u226	What we have come up against, and that sometimes happens, is that the door was closed in Brussels. Everyone was completely in the headlights watching the upcoming U.K. referendum. I understand that very well, by the way. We have all done so. Then the result was there, which led to the regrettable conclusion that the British want out. Even after that, there was really no room to negotiate that weekend. That is what we are going to do in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u227	Another broken promise that the Chamber really can't accept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u228	In fact, I can understand the fact that the Prime Minister says: we are going to get to work on it now. Can he say anything about the next few weeks and months? Can he say anything about a schedule? It is important and we must be careful. I agree to try to do justice to that result. I like that. I also agree with the analysis that "no, and the rest goes on" is not good either. Waiting a long time despite the Brexit isn't that either. After the summer it is very soon September 6th. Can the Prime Minister say anything about it, with all the good will?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u229	As soon as possible, but I was not happy with the reactions in the European Council last week. A number of things that we want to take care of are not easy to arrange. They will really face resistance from other Member States. We're really gonna have to talk about that. I promise Mr Verhoeven that we will do so as soon as possible, but it is not an easy process. That is why I am not optimistic that it will succeed. But we're gonna do it as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u230	How much longer do you think you'll need? There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u231	I have dealt with the two main points. Mrs Maij asked about the current situation with regard to the Slovak Presidency. We have had a conversation, including with our three-partners, as it is called so liberally. The three prime ministers, including those of Slovakia and Malta, were together two weeks ago. We have set our priorities together. The Slovaks have also been involved during our presidency and have been involved in the trialogue with the European Parliament and in the Council's preparatory talks. So there really is a gliding transition. There is a lot of exchange of knowledge and people. For example, a Dutch official who speaks fluently Slovak is temporarily seconded to the Slovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let me give you an example. That's not the only thing. It's not an easy language, I can assure the Chamber. It's appreciated how we do it. That's what we're gonna do. I come to treaty with Canada. The Commission's proposal just came on 5 July. It is well known that the Dutch Parliament has said that it really wants to talk about this, including provisional action and so on. So we are not going to take irreversible steps, not even on the point of provisional application, without consulting the Chamber. It just appeared today or yesterday. Of course, we need to study that carefully now. We will come forward with further proposals to Parliament. There was a question about the next of kin's letter. Did we bring that request to the attention of the Ukrainian authorities to reply to that letter? Yeah, that's what happened. This has been addressed by our MH17 coordinator for Foreign Affairs, the dg European Affairs, to the Ukrainian colleague. This was not until February 1st of this year and very recently, on 26th and 27th of May during the Joint Investigation Team's consultation. I happened to be fully prepared for the NATO summit this afternoon on Friday and Saturday. There is a conversation between me and the President of Ukraine. I have already planned to answer this question this afternoon, please, to discuss that letter again with him. I put that on the roll. We share the concerns about the rule of law of Turkey mentioned in the Chamber. Look at the limitations of freedom of expression and the restriction of media freedom. There are really legitimate reasons to worry about that. It is now necessary for us to base ourselves on institutions such as the Council of Europe. We are working hard on that right now. We must, of course, be careful not to do so ourselves as the Netherlands. That is why it is also good that the European Commission is preparing documents on chapters 23 and 24 in the context of the accession process. This also helps us to get a closer look at the human rights situation. These are also important roadmaps for the reforms we expect to see in Turkey in the area of the rule of law. We shall therefore also be keeping a very sharp eye on this. I come to genocide in the framework of ISIS. Let us put it first that what is currently happening in Syria and Iraq defies any description. It's horrible. However, it is not up to the cabinet, but to the judge. That's a legal definition. That does not change the horror we feel as a cabinet about the suffering. Hence our intensive military and humanitarian involvement. Mr Grashoff had a question about the dictators in Sudan and Eritrea. We are not in the process of concluding migration deals with Sudan and Eritrea. We don't. We'll try to make other arrangements. Then we try to ensure, for example, that Eritrea does not give direct support to a central government. Therefore, no compacts, no targeted joint agreements are made with these countries. Those messages in the media don't add up. I think I have answered a lot of questions, but I'm going to find out if I've forgotten something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u232	Mr Omtzigt, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u233	I have a question about genocide. It is not up to the Dutch cabinet to determine whether someone is guilty, but the political question has as such been answered in the European Parliament, in the Council of Europe, by the UN Expert Committee and by the American Congress. They assume that ISIS is committing genocide. This has certain consequences for the question of whether you will find the Genocide Convention in force and so you must ensure that your own nationals do not want to participate. Does the Dutch Government agree with these bodies that action should be taken here on the assumption that genocide on minorities is being committed here? Or does the Dutch Government take a total all-introspective position that it does not yet know whether that is happening and only evaluates it as a historian afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u234	The question of genocide is a legal one. It's terrible what's happening there. That is why we are also very intensively involved in military and diplomatic matters in all respects. As we know, our F-16s have been active over Iraq and Syria until recently. There is no doubt that we find the events there terrible. But Mr Omtzigt's question has a very complicated legal and diplomatic background. So I'm gonna hear about it with him and maybe I'll send him another note. If I answer that now, I run the risk of violating some convention or legal arrangement. I just want to make sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u235	I thank the Prime Minister for this commitment. I would like to put it in a note with exactly the response to the three texts adopted and to the UN text to which I referred.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u236	I'll give you a note. I think that's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u237	I support that request. My question concerns CETA and its entry into force. The Prime Minister says that it cannot be done until the national parliaments have discussed it. There is also discussion as to whether the Treaty will enter into force first and then the parliaments will discuss it. I would have great reservations about that. I understand that every element of CETA is discussed by the national parliaments. That would reassure me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u238	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u239	We have not yet heard the Prime Minister talk about his idea of relaxing the bonus scheme for foreign companies, especially British companies. During the Brexit campaign, we heard the Prime Minister speak with great concern about the fate of the British people and companies. Now we hear that British companies are very welcome in the Netherlands and that even the bonus scheme is interpreted in such a way that there are also some tax advantages to be obtained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u240	There are no proposals to change legislation or rules. Let me put that in front of you. We have strict legislation in the Netherlands on this point, because the Netherlands considers it important that there is a responsible bonus culture. In addition, when we try to put the Netherlands internationally in the shop window as a country where it is good to settle, we naturally point to all kinds of things that have to do with the location climate. Look at the article in the New York Times last Friday, which shows that the Netherlands is number one as an alternative to London as a financial center, so still before Frankfurt and Vienna. That includes our views on bonuses. We consider this responsible bonus culture to be so important because we want to prevent individuals from taking too many risks in large financial companies, the costs of which may be borne by taxpayers or customers. That is also the core of my speech at the VVD congress in May last year. What makes the Netherlands attractive as a country of residence? That is the highly educated population, living, international schools, the cultural sector, little bureaucracy. We are number five in the Human Development Index, we are number five in the World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Report, we are number four on the Global Innovation Index. There.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u241	All nice and kind, but we first had a Prime Minister who was very concerned about the fate of the British people and about the companies that would leave. And now suddenly we see a Prime Minister saying: come to British companies, come to the Netherlands; we are making room in the bonus scheme so that we become even more attractive. What about this solidarity with the British people and the fate of Great Britain? How should we see these statements about a flexible bonus scheme in the light of the beautiful story about our high morale on bonuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u242	The question was whether there were cabinet plans to amend the bonus rules or legislation. The answer to that is no. I outline in general terms why the Netherlands is an attractive country of residence. Are we going to London with flag missions with the message "come to the Netherlands"? No. Do tens of thousands of British people work in the Netherlands who know what the Netherlands can offer for pluses and minuses and, fortunately, especially pluses? Yes. Can we ban the possibility that perhaps in the head of a British top entrepreneur the question arises whether Amsterdam is an alternative if it was based in London because of its access to the internal market? No, you can't forbid that. Or does Mrs Thieme want to lock down the Amsterdam harbor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u243	The Prime Minister should not make a caricature of my words. He speaks of flexible looking at the bonus scheme to attract British companies here. That's what we heard him say. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the bonus scheme will be applied strictly and universally, regardless of whether it is a British company or a Dutch company?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u244	Sure, and the law is very clear. It is on average 20% for non-cao staff; it is 100% for persons employed by a parent holding company in the Netherlands, the group of which is mainly international; it is 100% for a person working outside the Netherlands, and it is 200% for a person working outside the EEA, if there is the agreement of the shareholders and informing the supervisor. Those are the existing rules of Dijsselbloem, Rutte, of this cabinet. The core of this is clear: it is on average 20% for non-cao staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u245	I asked another question about the Turkey deal. It is very nice that hardly any more people have drowned in the Aegean since that deal was concluded, but there is, of course, another side to that deal, namely to speed up the assessment of asylum applicants in Turkey, relocation, resettlement. We always hear a lot of nice words about that, but I have a bit of the impression that that doesn't really want to get going. I had asked the Prime Minister if he could give us a little more insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u246	Yes. In any case, very intensive work is being done from the Netherlands to increase the volume and increase the speed with which people are being assessed on the Greek side. I have recently had discussions with a Greek colleague on a bottleneck, namely the professional committees. In spite of the agreements with Turkey, they turned out to grant all the professions, which threatened to make a difference. This is not very urgent if the number of crossings is very limited, but it will be a problem if no one goes back and the pressure on the islands would increase. Europe currently places Syrians from Turkey a little faster than Syrians from Greece go back to Turkey. That shows our good will. We're ahead of that. Member States really respond very well to requests for staff and resources for EASO and Frontex. The Netherlands has also done so. It is true that Greece has the key to this. Greece has three complex processes to take care of. It must ensure that these professional committees are converted. It has now been decided, with parliamentary approval, but it still needs to take shape in practice. Then Greece must speed up the process on the islands. We are ready to help. Thirdly, there is also the process on mainland Greece. There are another tens of thousands of people there who need to be registered. That's what needs to be done. There's a hell of a lot of work. The latter has to be done partly via Skype, because people are not always in the place where things have to happen. That makes it even more complicated. So this is a very complicated logistics process, but the Netherlands is on top of it, as are other countries. It is not the case that there would be too little support from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u247	Then it is remarkable when you hear the stories and read about islands like Chios and Lesbos, where there are perhaps two or three officials in the process of assessing all these applications. Apparently, the next step in accelerating the assessment of these applications has not been taken by Greece, but not by support from the other Member States. My question was also about relocation and resettlement. How many countries are participating in this now? We also hear countries saying: we are going to hold a referendum to stop all this completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u248	I have not prepared the exact number of countries, but more and more countries have started to resettle people. This in itself is positive and also applies to Eastern Europe. More and more countries are joining. I don't have the exact list ready here. It is true that people need to be registered in order to be re-established. You really want to know who you're going to get to the Netherlands. There are all kinds of problems. I have said it before: the main objective of the agreements was no more crossing. Well, that works pretty well, because it's gone from thousands a day to 30 or 40 a day. However, a lot of other things are not going well. Those are indeed the professional committees, it is that on the Greek side there is not yet any real use of all the offers made from the rest of Europe, it is also that at some point Turkey gave the impression that it did not allow everyone we wanted to come to Europe; instead they said in Turkey: we want to look at them ourselves, or we really want to keep them here. Well, that's complicated, but we're working on all sides. It's mostly a matter of calling and doing. This is happening in the Netherlands, in the civil service, in the European Commission, in Germany, in the Netherlands and in others. The British play a very positive role in this. It's real wrestling to get it off the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u249	It's not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u250	It's not good enough yet. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u251	I should just like to comment on Mrs Thieme's little debate on the banks and bonuses. That leaves me with a bit of a nasty feeling. If the Prime Minister says so strictly that it is not the intention to change the rules at all, that they should simply be applied and so on, why did he publicly make statements indicating the flexibility contained in the bonus regulation? Why did he do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u252	I just pointed out the rules. I just told those rules. Persons employed by a parent holding company in the Netherlands whose group is mainly international, are subject to different rules than those employed by non-cao employees of companies mainly active in the Netherlands. Those are just the rules, but I didn't propose to change anything!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u253	It is almost a bit like the tax advisor who says: I cannot tell you about the possibilities outside the law, but I should like to point out to you the very edge of the law that you can still use. I still have a bad feeling about that. I have a supplementary question. We'll make more demands on banks. For example, we impose higher capital requirements on large banks in the Netherlands than is strictly necessary in the European context. That's one of those national headlines I'm very happy about. Does the Prime Minister also intend to stick strictly to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u254	We adhere strictly to everything, including the bonus rules. We do not create an exception to the bonus rules. We don't create edges. I'm just telling you what's in those rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u255	I had asked the Prime Minister what he thinks of that analysis of the driving forces. He didn't respond to that. Who shuts up, agrees, I suppose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u256	It was on a separate note! This was lost for a while. I had noted Mr Mulder's question separately. That was because Mr Mulder was the last person to speak at the end of the debate. I wrote that down a little bit more quickly, but it threatened to be lost now. Mr Mulder is actually saying that if countries have problems with national administration, they will be more likely to agree to delegate tasks to Brussels and to European cooperation. I think there are certainly examples of this. Absolutely. I'm sure you will. I'm sure there's gonna be people or countries like that in there. So I certainly cannot say that Mr Mulder is wrong. I think this is part of the explanation. In the end, of course, there are political motives behind why someone thinks this is right. Look at D66 here in this room. That's a party that says you can't transfer enough to Brussels, while other parties say you shouldn't. I hear Mr Verhoeven protesting. Sorry, he's right! This was entrapment. I take it back!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u257	The Prime Minister is taking it back, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u258	I take it back! No, that's lame. Mr Verhoeven is not against the Dutch Parliament. He wants to keep that, too. But, of course, there are differences. I think D66 of all parties in this Chamber on the federal-national scale is the most on the federal side. I'm allowed to analyze it like that, right? Mr Verhoeven has also confirmed this. Isn't that true? I thought I was doing Mr Verhoeven justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u259	A brief comment, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u260	Very briefly. I appreciate everything that the Prime Minister does today with 'practical' and 'no blueprint', but now he comes up with a simple binary dish with federal on the one hand and nationalist on the other hand and he splits me on that quickly! That's very convenient. It's a cunning debate trick. I would never have thought of it myself, because of course I do not use such tricks, but let's stick to the facts. I have indicated that in some areas we want more Europe, but in others we want less. I literally said that. That is a balanced commitment, a very different commitment from the Prime Minister's suggestion. I appreciate the debate trick, but let us stick to the facts ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u261	A debate trick that is immediately revealed does not work. It's nice of you to compliment me, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u262	That is my debate trick, which the Prime Minister is now revealing here. I'm leaving now!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u263	D66 itself is about his own vision, but well, I just wanted to say to Mr Mulder that, in addition to the statement he made, which will be an absolute part of the statement, there are also differences of emphasis in the political convictions of parties and politicians. What is the best thing to do together, in European cooperation? And what can best be done by the Member States? We should not neglect the role of these differences of accents. We also see very different views in the European party of which Mr Mulder and I are members. Last week at lunch in Brussels, I heard people from whom Mr Mulder and I would say: well, that should be a little more friendly about European cooperation! I have also heard people from whom Mr Mulder and I would have said: are we in one group? That's true with all those political families. It is a bit enlarged in the ALDE, but I can assure you that it is also the EPP and the Socialist Group. Viktor Orbán is a member of the European People's Party, and Robert Fico of Slovakia is a member of the European Social Democratic Family. There are very different views within these parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u264	Now that the Prime Minister partly shares my analysis, I also assume that he will take it to Bratislava and put it on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u265	All the analyses that Mr Mulder gives me here will be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u266	Thank you. We have come to the end of the government's first term. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. Speaking time shall not exceed two minutes, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u267	Mr. Chairman. It turns out that maybe we're a little more united than we were when we started. I address Mr Verhoeven, who questioned me critically in the first term. I see that he can bear the patience to encourage the reflection that is coming in September and that he thinks it is a sensible route. This is how we get to a nice end of this evening. I await the commitment of the cabinet when it comes to the summit that will be held in September. I have heard the Prime Minister say that the CETA Convention must be ratified before it can enter into force. I've taken note of that. That will apply to the ICS. I have two more points. On the recognition of the genocide, we await a letter from the cabinet. We had tabled a motion earlier. About the government's commitment to the Ukraine referendum and its outcome, the Prime Minister says "as soon as possible" as soon as possible. Can he give any indication, even for all those people who were very involved at the time, when the reaction comes? He said in the written report that a legally binding solution must be found. What legal binding solution is he thinking of? Finally, I have a motion on the important red card procedure which has been on the table here and also in Brussels for some time, but which is now floating because of the Brexit. I would like to ask the Chamber for a ruling on the sovereignty of the Member States. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the agreement of the European Council in February 2016 on the reform proposals in the area of sovereignty;]] [[Whereas these proposals are in line with the commitment of the Cabinet;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts to implement these reform proposals in the area of sovereignty (possibility to distance itself from the pursuit of an ever closer union and strengthen the position of national parliaments) for all EU Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Bommel, Mr Bishop and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1130]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u268	Mr. Chairman. I'm at minus 20... no, it's better now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u269	I'll take care of that with you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u270	Now the clock is running while you interrupt me, Mr. Chairman. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u271	No, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u272	Mr. Chairman. The Brexit should give rise to a reflection on the direction and future of Europe. That is a statement by Commissioner Timmermans; a statement that is real, because there are varying views in different countries in Europe about which route the European Union should now follow. The Prime Minister says no blueprint, no one is waiting for it. But in Poland they have very different ideas than in the Netherlands, and in the Czech Republic they have different ideas than in France, to name just a few countries. So the Netherlands will have to take a position on its own. I believe that the Prime Minister does not show enough in this respect. Its starting point is: no convention - no one asked for it - and no treaty change. I think that's a clearer statement. It means that the Prime Minister wants to do a lot, but doesn't want to touch the institutions, when we also need to talk about it. This must be an open discussion, in Europe and therefore also in the Netherlands. If you take that as a starting point in advance, you won't get anywhere. I find that extremely disappointing. Then the Ukraine referendum. We are now three months after the referendum. We were supposed to hear something by the summer. The British referendum had to have been first and in the meantime there would be talks, but we are being sent back with a brat. I do not think that is acceptable. Now we're talking about weeks or months from now. We all know what we're gonna do. There's a recess coming up. I'm sure there's gonna be some talk around here and there. However, I have very little confidence that we will suddenly get a response to the outcome of the referendum in September, and I find that extremely disappointing. Then CETA, the treaty with Canada. It is important that it is now said to be a mixed treaty. The national parliaments are on the move. However, I am not reassured about the provisional entry into force. That is why I would like to make an appointment with the Prime Minister on a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas CETA is a mixed convention which should also be approved by national parliaments;]] [[noting, however, that the European Commission considers that CETA may enter into force "for the time being" before the national parliaments have given their assent;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept the provisional entry into force of CETA as long as the Second Chamber has not consented to the Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Bommel, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-1131]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u273	A brief question, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u274	For the sake of clarity, because I asked the Prime Minister this very question very clearly and he said: ratify first and then enter into force. Maybe we've heard different things. I support Mr Van Bommel's plea, but I did not make a motion on it because the Prime Minister was so clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u275	I think that guarantee can only be given if that agreement between the Chamber and the government is made literally. That's the verdict in the motion. Then there are the Prime Minister's intentions. With all due respect, but when it comes to international treaties, the Prime Minister is not guided by the wishes of the Chamber, but by the international debate. We can see that in all other treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u276	Mr Omtzigt, one question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u277	Is this motion of the SP also about the part of CETA that falls under the exclusive competence of the Union, which is the majority of CETA? Is that excluded or is the motion for a resolution about the whole treaty? Does Mr Van Bommel think that the tariffs and everything contained in them that is not subject to any discussion in the Chamber or the Union can only enter into force after a process of years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u278	I believe that the Convention cannot enter into force for the time being, not a part of the Convention, without the assent of the Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u279	Mr. Chairman. The feeling that I have left at the end of this debate is that we have done very enlightening things on a number of points, but that we are not yet close to a really good in-depth analysis of what is going on in Europe and what are the deeper causes and backgrounds of that declining or crumbling trust in the EU and in the European institutions. I think we should know. I will reassure the Prime Minister: I am not going to table a motion on this. It would be torn apart in no time and placed in all kinds of specific contexts. It's about genuine care. With each other, we will also be the most pro-European trends in politics, to which my own Green Left is a great deal to blame, and that understanding must develop better in order to relate to us. I do not yet see this in the Prime Minister's reply, and I ask him whether he would consider the possibility of carrying out research and discussion on this matter. I can imagine different forms of this. Scientists could, for example, work on it under the auspices of the WRR. I think that we need this in the years to come and that we cannot solve it only with pragmatism. Then I'd like to file another motion. It's a little more straight-on at another point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Brexit makes London City less attractive to banks and may offer the Netherlands an alternative location;]] [[calls on the Government not to make concessions in the area of bonus legislation and other laws and regulations to banks wishing to settle in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Maij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u280	Mr. Chairman. On 13 April, during the debate, the Prime Minister said that if no response had been made to the outcome of the Ukraine referendum by the summer, he would not proceed to ratify. This evening's debate has shown that the Prime Minister is not making this statement. That is an insult to the electorate and to those who have taken the trouble to go to the voting booth and voted 'no' there. No is no. In view of this broken promise to the electorate, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that 61% of Dutch voters voted against the EU Association Treaty with Ukraine on 6 April 2016;]] [[Whereas the Prime Minister has so far ignored this outcome and has therefore ignored the opinion of the electorate;]] [[expresses confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u281	Mr. Chairman. During this debate, the Prime Minister made it clear that he is still going for a treaty with Ukraine, despite the people's no. My group considers that really unacceptable. The Prime Minister still does not seem to see any reason to reflect on the direction of the European Union in the Brexit and all the other referendums that have been held lately. That too is incomprehensible. Meanwhile, he tries to get British companies to the Netherlands by saying outside the Chamber that there is flexibility in the rules surrounding the bonuses. Here in the Chamber, however, he speaks a very different language. Here he talks about strictly applying the rules on bonuses. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the Prime Minister's statements on the attractiveness of the Netherlands as a location for British banks that there is flexibility in the rules on variable remuneration for bankers;]] [[Whereas perverse incentives in remuneration policies in the financial sector have contributed to the emergence of the financial crisis;]] [[considers it undesirable to lure foreign companies with the promise of a flexible bonus policy;]] [[calls on the government to apply the Dutch bonus policy universally and strictly and not to make exceptions for foreign companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u282	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers after a long day and a rather intensive six months. I look forward with great interest to the letter on the genocide committed by ISIS. This genocide has been confirmed by the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the US Congress and also by the UN expert group. I wonder what the consequences will be. I would like to know when the government expects to be able to give a final answer to the House of Representatives on the Ukraine referendum. Does the Prime Minister set himself a deadline, or is this deadline after 15 March 2017? In other words, does the Prime Minister think he should act himself on the basis of this referendum, which took place under his government? We are concerned that the EU is simply continuing to prepare the two main chapters in the negotiations with Turkey, chapters 23 and 24 on the rule of law and democracy, while Turkey is not running backwards, but moving faster than Max is with the decline in the democratic rule of law. If you are going to prosecute all the MPs in the opposition and dismiss judges, then you cannot speak of a rule of law. I am still waiting for substantive answers to the question of the right of veto under the Pension Directive. It had ordained the government to provide those answers to parliament before it was agreed. Then you can still disagree on how to do that, but this is not a good example. It is good that an extra summit on the Brexit will take place in Bratislava on 15 September. I would encourage the government to put its own efforts on paper. This is really important. The European Union will have to reform in the interest of the Prime Minister so clearly stated. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the negative feelings about the European Union that emerged in the British referendum also live in other Member States;]] [[noting that an informal summit on 15 September will be held in Bratislava from the 27 EU remain countries on this issue;]] [[Calls on the Government to draw up its reform agenda for the European Union and to forward it to the Chamber by 1 September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bishop and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u283	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for the proper answer to the questions. It's always a pleasure to experience that. I would like to zoom in on one more point: the preparation for the reflection meeting in Bratislava. I've been interrupting about that for a while now. That moment is more important than it might seem right now. The future, the structure, the development of the EU for the coming years, perhaps decades, may depend on that. I welcome the commitment to produce an underlying document, which can be debated with the Chamber. I would like to join the motion that Mr Omtzigt has just tabled. Let us, above all, think carefully about what needs to be reformed. We can say that we do not want a treaty change, but if we continue to run into the current structures, continue to generate the constant discontent among the population and the acceptance level but continue to falter, you must have thought in good time about how to prevent it. I would like that aspect to be explicitly involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u284	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister remains stoic about the outcome of the Ukraine referendum. He is now saying that the chance of not ratifying is increasing. And he keeps trying, he says. A new deadline is now being mentioned: the next few weeks or months. As far as the PVV is concerned, all the Prime Minister's previous commitments can be thrown into the trash of false promises. At first it was: react to the results as quickly as possible. Then it became: "directly after the breach," "just before the summer" or "if I have formulated an answer." We find that the Prime Minister is not delivering again. Dealing with the electorate's will and the Chamber is insulting to the Prime Minister himself, but also to the Chamber, of which a majority, the coalition of PvdA and VVD, accepts it. The Prime Minister did not consider it necessary to answer my question as to where the representative investigation is on the basis of which he concluded that the no-voters were mainly concerned about these three points: joining the EU, financial assistance and military assistance. I would like an answer to that question anyway. The no-voters I know do not recognize themselves in that. They all want one thing: no treaty, no adapted treaty. I'd like a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u285	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It was a dynamic debate. I appreciate the many actions of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet in the past year. However, sometimes I was disappointed by the words chosen and the way in which the EU was sometimes put away, because that sounded good. It also turned out that the Prime Minister can't resist putting an image of D66 in the overdrive that works nicely. In this way, however, we will not have a good debate on a better Europe. I would like us to look for a better Europe. First, there must be clarity about the UK. I therefore hope that the cabinet will continue to insist that this clarity be enforced as soon as possible. A debate on the reforms and the future of Europe should then be held at the September summit. Sometimes more Europe is needed; we also need to be honest about that. Sometimes less Europe is needed, where it can and where it is good. Let it be an honest debate. It's okay to be firm, but it's on the basis of facts. Stop telling fables and do in Brussels A and say in The Hague B. Also stop those tough quotes, which you put away a certain institution or organization in a way that doesn't fit in with what it does. If that succeeds, I will try to cooperate on it myself. We can look forward to a good debate on a decisive and democratic Europe. My second request is in line with the motion tabled by Mr Omtzigt. The cabinet must make clear its commitment so that we can talk about it properly before the September summit. I understand the Prime Minister's difficult position in view of the referendum and everything that is happening in Europe, but I would ask him to ensure that he brings a proposal to the Chamber as soon as possible so that the whole Chamber can judge it. That's really necessary. I know it's been hard work, but let's go for weeks and not months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u286	Mr. Chairman. I come briefly to the post-brexit summit in Bratislava with the 27 Member States that still have cooperation in the European Union. It is important to know exactly what is being discussed in a broader context, because we talk very often in this Chamber about transparency and what the stakes are during the various Councils and summits. In addition to the Dutch commitment, therefore, we must also know what the commitment of other countries is, because in this way we can conduct the debate much more honestly in advance and afterwards. There may be something quite different from the Dutch government's commitment. Perhaps that makes sense, because then we know what other countries have said. So I think it is very important that we have not only transparency in advance about what the Dutch Government thinks, but also that we know what the wider field in the European Union is about, especially the other Member States. The internal market must work better, including for workers. That is why I have asked a number of questions about the Detaching Directive and I have said something about it in a number of interrupting debates. Workers in the internal market are not just a cost. We must move away from the idea of the internal market as a goal. The internal market is a means of generating prosperity and well-being for the citizens of the Member States of the European Union. Hence my call for a genuine adaptation of the Detachment Directive. It must ensure that we stop displacement and exploitation in our own labour market. Finally, I would like to make a brief point about Turkey. The Prime Minister just said the goal of the deal was to stop irregular migration. But the goal of the deal was, of course, double. That was not only to stop irregular migration, but also to provide protection and perspective to refugees and also to achieve resettlement and relocation. Not just one half comes out, but the other half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u287	This brings us to the end of the second term from the Chamber. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u288	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u289	Mr. Chairman. I won't repeat your instruction, but I'm going to do it. First, I will deal with the timing of the follow-up to the Ukraine referendum. I can assure Mr Verhoeven, Mr Voordewind, Mr Omtzigt and all those who referred to it that this will be as soon as possible. We're not gonna stretch anything, but I can't make a commitment about how fast "as soon as possible" is, because I'm dealing with 28 Member States. As I said, the first reactions came last week, and that was not easy. We will have to work really hard on this, including with the European Commission and, above all, with colleagues in the European Council. We are going to do so as soon as possible, but I am not going to put a date on that now, because then I will have Mr Bontes in my calf again saying: 'Hey, Rutte, motion of censure'. We shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u290	Brief question, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u291	"As soon as possible" is, of course, beginning to become a very easy concept for a decision that has been made since April. If I did this on my IRS forms, I'd have huge fines and warrants on my pants. So my question is whether the Prime Minister would like to send a letter with the state of play after the next European summit in the autumn, so that we know again where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u292	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u293	That seems like a logical moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u294	Absolutely. And not the one of 16 September, but the one of October, because the one of 16 September is not about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u295	The formal summit in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u296	Agreed. I find that very constructive. Thank you. Motions have been tabled, including on the Bratislava Summit. I'll get to that in a minute. I think these motions are good, but I warn you in general: do not make it too big. That is not the answer to the problem. That is always the risk of such an am Kamin, the legs on the table session, that the answer to the problem will come out. There are 3,000 journalists around it and then we organize disappointment. That's not wise. It will really be a step-by-step process, to strengthen the European Union in a very pragmatic way, but also on the basis of sound analyses. I agreed with Mrs Maij on the internal market. That's not a goal, it's a means, sure. I also agreed with her on migration. That is en-and-and-in terms of both policy and objectives. It is not just about preventing the crossing and the deaths of the Aegean Sea, or about preventing irregular migration to Europe, but also about decent reception. For example, there are now 100,000 children receiving extra education in Turkey, thanks to the Turkish Refugee Facility. Then there's the motions. The Voordewind c.s. motion in piece No. 1130 is policy support. I have already said that the package itself is now off the table, but on occasion we are going to do our best to keep the elements intact. The motion-Van Bommel c.s. in piece No. 1131 I must advise against. How does it work? The trade section is likely to fall under the exclusive competence of the European Union. Then there may be provisional application. The Dutch Government must take a position on this. That's what we're going to discuss here with the House of Representatives. This will then be discussed in Brussels. There is, of course, a separate ratification process for the entire treaty. The Maij/Grashoff motion in part No. 1132 is policy support. The Dutch government applies bonus legislation, nothing more and nothing less. I have pointed out that this bonus legislation also contains the elements I have just read, for example with regard to persons employed by a parent holding company in the Netherlands, the group of which is mainly active internationally. The Bontes motion in part No. 1133 I advise. The Thieme c.s. motion. in piece No. 1134 is policy support, provided that the proposers, like the government, apply the bonus legislation in full, including the categories provided for in the law. I referred to that in the press conference on Friday. The motion-Ontzigt c.s. in piece No. 1135 is policy support. I am not sure if the document requested is there on 1 September, but it will be well in time for the Chamber to discuss this Bratislava session. There will simply be a letter, as we always do at European Councils, including this informal European Council. Don't pin me down on 1 September, but it will come well in time so that we can have the debate together. I believe I have done justice to all the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u297	For the second time, the Prime Minister obviously does not want to answer my question. Is it too much trouble? Surely there is something that can be said about the way in which the cabinet has reached these conclusions and what policy is being made?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u298	Oh, I'm sorry, but I've told you that a lot here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u299	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u300	Yes, also in the debate on 13 April and in last week's debate. These are elements that were all dominant in the discussion in the run-up to April 6th. Look at the famous debate between the leader of social democracy Samsom and the leader of the Socialist Party, Mr Roemer, at Nieuwsuur, but also on many other occasions. In all these social discussions you heard a lot of grievances. Again, I'm gonna try to address them. I maintain that there is a great chance that things will continue, if we do not sign, and that the opponent will be equally discontented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u301	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u302	Yeah, I think that's a weird idea of things. I do not think that this social debate took place outside, but it was a political debate that took place here. That's where it's always come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u303	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u304	You say "nice," but I don't recognize it by the no-chooser. You say these are their problems, but I think that's a lot. As far as I'm concerned, it's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u305	I do not know exactly which TV programmes I have watched and which debates I have attended, but they were all about whether there is pre-accession, whether there is collective defence, whether there is new money going there and whether the fight against corruption is on the agenda etc. That's what it was all about every time. The question is whether we can address these things legally binding. If we can do that, we'll do something with that no vote. If we can't do that, we won't sign, but the no-voters will be as discontented as it turns out the rest of us are just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u306	I have a point of order. I want us to vote on the motion of censure tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u307	I'm sorry, what are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u308	I would like to vote this evening on the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u309	I wasn't ready. I'd like to thank the Prime Minister first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u310	A number of motions have been tabled on which we are going to vote on Thursday, but you have tabled a motion of censure, Mr Bontes. It is customary to vote directly on a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u311	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u312	I have a point of order. I would like a roll-call vote on Mr Bontes' motion on item No. 1133.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-33.u313	Okay, we're gonna take a roll call.
