ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Prime Minister called President Trump. I read his Facebook message about that. I wonder if anything in this conversation has got Trump thinking. That message could have been otherwise, for example: "Dear Mr Trump, dear Donald, the office of President of the United States is honorable and lonely. You will be the face of the most powerful democracy in the world. You represent a country that has written in its name freedom, democracy and equality of all people. The land of the free, the home of the good: this is how it is in your national anthem. Words with moral authority, which get their shine by striving to bring those ideals closer. With your power comes responsibility. You stand on the shoulders of giants, of the Founding Fathers, of Lincoln, who led his country from civil war to unity, of Roosevelt, who fought for equal opportunities, of Eisenhower, who sent the army to Little Rock to protect African-American children who wanted to go to school, and of your predecessor Obama, who embodied the American dream like no other. Mr Trump, when it comes to freedom and progress, we share our history. Our constitutions are the oldest in the world and the core values are very similar: all men are created equal. Let's both be proud of our freethinkers, proud of openness and tolerance, or as they call it in your country: Dutch tolerance. I'm proud of that again. You may expect from me as a Dutchman and European that an alliance is not a one-way street, as I will appeal to you for your great responsibility and exemplary role. If you stand for our shared values and give us a handshake, you will find a loyal ally in us. Then together we can remain an example of hope and opportunities for the rest of the world." My question is, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u2	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u3	I see that Mr Ten Broeke wanted to interrupt, but the aid forces are not yet needed. He can do it, I think, all by himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. This gives a glimpse of the way Alexander Pechtold makes phone calls. There's not much room for a reaction from the person he's calling. It's a whole speech he's making. I am glad that I can say something back from time to time in the contacts between Mr Pechtold and myself. This was quite a speech. Let me outline how I see my role as Prime Minister in contacts with important leaders from other countries, including countries of great importance to the Netherlands. For me as Prime Minister, the Dutch interest is of course paramount. For that I was hired by the Dutch voters. I have also been given room for this Parliament to do my job. In addition, I see it as my task to build a good relationship with foreign leaders and heads of state, especially those of countries such as the United States. The United States is not only of economic importance to the Netherlands, but also to our security and our embedding in an international security and legal order. Of course, you certainly work with Western leaders from an assumption, an assumption of shared values. I also mentioned it yesterday in the telephone conversation, albeit less elaborate than Mr Pechtold just did. I have pointed out our close historical, cultural and economic links. It is of the utmost importance that Europe and the United States also build a strong relationship under this new president. There is a role for the Netherlands. We are the smallest of the largest countries, the sixth of the largest economies. We have an opportunity and a task, I think, to help build a bridge between Europe and America, especially now that a president has been elected, some of whom in this house and in other European countries say: we must wait and see what it is going to be. My approach is different. My approach is to give a democratically elected president every chance. We work from common values. We will emphasize that time and time again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u5	I hear the Prime Minister talking about trade, interests, economics. He says, "I've been hired by the voter." But there's more than economics. There are shared values. There are freedoms from which interests can arise. His colleague Merkel was an example by pointing to democracy, freedom, respect for human rights and dignity in her first reaction, regardless of origin, colour, faith, sex, sexual orientation or political views. She said to Trump, if we share that, there's a good relationship. You're not hired, I'll tell the Prime Minister. You have been set as an example to make sure that everyone recognizes themselves in it. You had more time than I have two minutes to speak to Trump, and if you spoke to Trump, you could have taken the trouble to ensure that basis from which we will bridge the differences. I'd like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u6	I find this approach, which I heard Mr Pechtold and Mr Klaver choose in their initial reactions after the election of the new American President, an unwise one. There has been a democratic election. A new president has been elected. But all we hear is: he's not gonna be okay, we're gonna worry about that and how is this gonna go? We are talking here about the President of the United States of North America, one of the largest democracies in the world, where a new President was elected in free democratic elections. The bond between the Netherlands and America is of the utmost importance, especially for the Netherlands. So is the bond between America and Europe. Of course Merkel, and yesterday in my conversation, emphasised our strong historical, cultural and economic ties, as did our common security interests. But if we had done what Mr Pechtold, Mr Klaver and others did in their first reaction, namely to say a little pronkian with the finger "Well, well, we just have to wait and see if everything is going well; should we have done it this way?', Then we can't build a relationship. I say this to Mr Pechtold: this is no way to build a relationship as Prime Minister. Then you do not represent the Dutch interests. Defending Dutch interests means striking a balance between security and the economy and at the same time highlighting common values. But you must not assume that a newly elected democratic head of state will not meet our high standards in advance. I think that is an incorrect approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u7	I know that our Prime Minister does not take it so closely with promises from political leaders and thinks: you can always apologize again. But Trump's promises mean, among other things, that today in Marrakech other countries are trying to save what remains of the climate agreement, which is linked to jobs, industry and a level playing field. These are the interests of the Netherlands. At the moment, the Chinese are already threatening trade sanctions. At the moment, Trump's promise to release Iran in its nuclear strategy is a threat to the whole world. Then you're not talking about interests. Then you're talking about threats. This is not linked to the insults, the deportation of people and all the other issues raised in that campaign. The fact that Rutte often doesn't care about campaign promises doesn't mean that people fall for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr Pechtold has a somewhat sharper tone. That's often not a good sign. I'm going back to the contents anyway. I think we really need to make a sharp distinction. There is the content of the policy: Marrakech, Iran, the relationship with Europe. Of course, we will be working intensively with the new US government on this. It is also my ambition to have a much longer personal conversation with the new American President as soon as possible. We will look for a moment when that can happen as soon as possible. On the contrary, I think it is important to discuss all these important issues much more comprehensively. But that's not how Mr. Pechtold started his questions. He started with an assumption that the new American president will work from a very different set of values than Europe or the Netherlands. I think that's an unwise assumption. Let us immediately judge this man by his actions, both in terms of the values that drive him and the policies he is going to pursue. If things do not go well, Mr Pechtold will find me on his side. I will then stand up for Dutch interests, both from values and from policy. But let's give this man a chance. Let's not fuck up the relationship in advance by assuming it's all wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u9	Let me first say that I stand here in the good and proud tradition of Jan Pronk; no evil word about it. It could be both true. You can congratulate someone on his democratic victory, and you can do that protocol correctly. You can also start talking about how you're going to work together on that basis. But at the same time you can account for what preceded it. I now hear from the Prime Minister that he spoke about this in that discussion and that he appointed those values. But I didn't read that back in his statement. I found his statement general and meaningless and disappointing in that sense. I ask the Prime Minister why he did appoint these values in that discussion, but not in the report. A lot of Dutch people have offended racism, xenophobia and sexism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u11	Why didn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u12	I think I was quite clear about that in my Facebook message. Of course, that is not a literal representation of the conversation, but all these elements are in it. The discussion focused on our shared historical, cultural and economic links and on the need for strong transatlantic cooperation between America and Europe. That's all in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u13	There are indeed serious concerns, for example about statements about minorities and about the possible very abrupt change in course of action by the United States. There is decades of military cooperation between Europe and the United States in the NATO alliance. That alliance stands for peace and security. But people are worried that this will come under pressure, because the newly elected president threatens to make a retreating move and says: America first. In any case, it is a concern of the Christian Union Group. Is it the government's commitment to continuing to invest in NATO? And will this cabinet encourage America, on the other side of the ocean, to hold on to each other in this respect and to continue to make us strong for peace and security around the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u14	I agree with that for 300%. I therefore also stressed in yesterday's discussion that both the Netherlands and I personally, as one of the longer-term Heads of Government, are committed to building a bridge between the new American government and Europe. This applies not only to economic cooperation, but also to the embedding in a joint security arrangement, NATO, given the security guarantee that joint action in the world brings us. America freed us in World War II. We're all better off because America did. We're better off, because America did. Let us remain grateful to each other for that, and let us just assume that this new American president will continue to do so. As I said to Mr Pechtold: if it turns out that it is going in the very opposite direction, we will of course engage intensively in the discussion in order to exert influence, so that the direction we want is taken. If that doesn't work, we're gonna have to do other things. But I think it is an unwise approach to assume that all this is going to go wrong, as the reactions of a number of political leaders in the Netherlands have shown. You give, in good Dutch, someone with it the cold shoulder; you shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Netherlands has seriously neglected its armed forces. Mr Trump also made comments on this. He said that freeriding must be over, free riding. He said that we are paying a lot for it, and the other countries in Europe, the other NATO alliance members, must do the same; they must comply with the NATO standard, 2% of gross domestic product. In view of the story I have outlined about the way Trump looks at it, is the Prime Minister finally prepared to ensure that the Netherlands will comply with that obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u16	That agreement was made widely in NATO at the summit in Wales in September 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u17	Then I'd like to know from the Prime Minister exactly how he's going to do that. How much time does it take? In how many years has the Netherlands complied with the agreement that 2% of gross domestic product will be spent on NATO? I'd like to hear the timetable for this intention and the amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u18	We have had this discussion extensively during the General Political Reviews. As Mr Bontes knows, the decline in expenditure has now turned to an increase. Several political parties have already laid down their programmes. My party and other parties have said that there must be substantial additional investment in Defence, even after the elections of 15 March 2017. We have had this whole debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u19	And tomorrow will be the discussion of the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u20	We have just heard that Mr Pechtold would have given a sermon instead of congratulating a newly elected Head of State. I find that remarkable for someone who has been calling himself a democrat for 50 years. At least the Prime Minister congratulated the new Head of State of the Americans. I would like to know whether that congratulation was also on behalf of the Foreign Minister, because I missed that a bit in the press release that the Foreign Minister put out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u21	The Foreign Minister has also congratulated the new American President. It wasn't quite final yet, but he had to get on a plane. He was 10 or 12 hours away from here in New Zealand and Australia, because he was with the state visit. This congratulation is from the entire Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u22	The concerns about Mr Trump's statements are quite justified. I also think that the Prime Minister's congratulations on the democratically elected President-in-Office are quite right. That is democracy. Much deeper is the question of what is actually going on. Why have so many Americans chosen such a person? You can easily link to the Netherlands. Here too, we notice that mainstream politicians, including in this Chamber, are not sufficiently interested in what actually lives among people. This is not just the case in the Netherlands, but in Europe as a whole. Look at the reason for the Brexit. Look at what happened to the referendum on the European Constitution. Look at what happened to the referendum on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u23	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u24	There's a lack of interest in the real problems people go through behind the front door. Does the Prime Minister realise that what has happened in America and what is threatening to happen in the Netherlands has everything to do with the disinterest of mainstream politics in the real problems on the street and behind the front door?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u25	Let me speak for myself. I've been in politics for 12 years with great pleasure. I think it's very honorable that I should be allowed to do this. I realize every day, every hour and every minute that I am allowed to perform this function in politics, as is also the case with my previous position, thanks to the Dutch people, who gave me the opportunity to be Prime Minister and rather group chairman of an opposition party and Secretary of State. It is my job, I suppose, that others in this room feel the same way too, to offer practical solutions to people's concerns and to fight for people who are worried about their pensions, health care, international safety or the future of their children. That's my job. In addition, you are in intensive conversation with people and you are in the middle of society as a human being and not every garbage bag you put on the street is considered an anthropological expedition and not every time you go to the Albert Heijn or the Lidl on Saturday, you think that's very special. Because that's perfectly normal. I can only speak for myself. Mr Roemer made a sweeping statement about politics and the parties I assume he means himself but I can only say how I am in the game. I am here for the Netherlands, for the people who live here, to fight for them, to take away their worries and to take the next step with this beautiful country. That's why I want to go through this job and be my party's list leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u26	The Prime Minister just said something very interesting: with a Western leader I assume that we share the same values. That's exactly the point. That's the big question that a lot of people have. Someone has been chosen as leader of this great democratic country, our ally, in which one doubts whether he shares the same values as we do and whether he is in the same tradition of freedom. It is about Muslims who are not allowed to enter a country, about Mexicans who are being evicted, about walls that are being erected, about women who are considered a kind of utility. Then Prime Minister Rutte can say that Mr Pechtold and I are giving a cold shoulder to a newly elected President, but I cannot imagine that this Prime Minister is not concerned about Trump's election. In what way did the Prime Minister inform President Elect Trump that he was concerned about the freedoms in America, the freedoms in our country and the freedoms in the Western world? Has he raised the question of how the American President intends to defend it with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u27	That is exactly why I distanced myself from the way Mr Klaver and Mr Pechtold reacted to the election of the new American President. He was chosen in America. That is perhaps our most important ally and our liberator after World War II. America is a country with which we have a great deal in common, not only in economic terms, but also in cultural terms, in terms of values. Think of our liberal democracies. Is it so crazy that when in such a country, such an important partner and ally, a new president is elected, at least we start from the assumption that the man is good and that he wants to do good things? If that is not the case, and if it turns out in practice that the values or policies are going in the wrong direction, we will, of course, enter into intensive discussions to influence him first. If that does not work, we will obviously have to take next steps. But let's just assume you're okay. There is talk of maximum influence, but do Mr Klaver and Mr Pechtold really think that if you had responded as they wanted, you could then engage with this new president to influence and adjust the policy in the Dutch interest, in a direction we want? We are all here for the Dutch interest; for that we have been chosen. But if you were to react that way, the door was already shut in advance, wasn't it? That's unwise, isn't it? You can't do international politics like that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u28	Mr Klaver has a second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u29	A wise person once taught me that you can't be hit unless you care about someone. Just because of the long tradition and the deep connection that the Netherlands has with the United States, so many people in the Netherlands are worried about what is happening in the United States. I think the Prime Minister has a strange view on this. He's actually saying that you shouldn't be honest with your friends and not express your concerns. Merkel did, in an eloquent way. Does the Prime Minister actually say that Merkel has gone too far? Is he saying that the way Germany approaches the new President of the United States is a wrong approach? That approach means putting your hand out and at the same time indicating where your concerns are. After all, we have a tradition of friendship and a tradition of freedom. Thanks to the campaign of the past few months and the fitness he still has on Twitter all the time, you're worried if that freedom is still being shared. Was Angela Merkel wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u30	It is precisely for this reason that I raised our cultural, historical and economic links in the discussion yesterday. We should be proud of our far-back history, of the fact that in 1776 the Netherlands was the first country that recognized America, of the fact that our history goes much further back, up to 400 years, and of the people who crossed the sea from the Netherlands to make a first contribution to building what later became American society. I pointed out the great importance and role that I see for the Netherlands there, to help bridge the gap between the new American government and Europe. I've done all that from a certain starting position. If America chooses a new president, I assume that man is a good man. I don't suppose that guy's any good. I think that is an unwise approach. If you choose that approach, the door is closed in advance and the chance is that you can influence something else zero point zero. You can't be Prime Minister like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u31	No, no, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u32	I had a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u33	What was your simple question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u34	My simple question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u35	You can repeat your question, but you cannot ask a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u36	No, no, I don't have to ask a new question. It was a very good question and I want an answer to that. Angela Merkel has spoken out. Does the Prime Minister find what Angela Merkel has done unwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u37	I have also spoken out about our ties and our shared values. I have also stated that it is very important for America and Europe to maintain a close relationship. Everyone chooses their own words in that respect, but they all go in the same direction, I have no reason to believe that this is different on the German side, starting from the assumption that, if a new President is elected on the basis of the American system, this is a sensible choice. If things prove to be different in practice, then we have every opportunity to adjust and, if necessary, take further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u38	I have been listening to this debate for 25 minutes, especially to the Prime Minister's answers, but is there nothing at all that he is worried about? He talks about the starting point, the ties and that sort of thing, but I ask him specifically whether there is nothing he is concerned about at all. The Prime Minister says he is concerned about the Dutch, but a lot of Dutch people are worried about what is happening in the United States. Can't he mention a single critical point right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u39	The big difference between Mr Kuzu and me is that I was appointed as Prime Minister not to worry, but to solve problems. That's my job. I see it as an essential interest of the Netherlands that we should also build a good relationship with the new American government, so that we can influence the policy in a direction we want. You can't do that if you actually start saying, as in Mr. Pechtold's sermon, that someone is not right. You have to start by saying that you respect the choice of the American people. From that election, you're gonna look for a good relationship. Of course, you emphasise the historical, cultural and economic ties, the history that we have together and the great interests of transatlantic cooperation in the alliance. You do all of that. I did the same thing yesterday. That's your starting point. However, your starting point is not that you close the door in advance and say: you should not have been chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
