ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	I propose that we start with the first speaker, the applicant for this VSO, Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we still have a plenary session of the written consultation on the establishment of the Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Authority, the ANVS. Already in the legal treatment of the ANVS, my group expressed its concern about the supervision of this new ZBO. At that time we agreed to the legislative amendment, but on condition that the Minister would still come up with a good supervisory vision. It's there now. I'm very happy about that, too. On one point, however, I disagree with the Minister. It considers that there should be no supervisory board at the ANVS. However, it is precisely in the case of a remote inspection, with great powers, that it is also important for the companies that there is an independent group of experts who can keep a mirror in front of the ANVS, asked for or unsolicited. This group can then be called on from experience and expertise when risks arise. In this specific and knowledge-intensive area, where this function can sometimes be in the social domain, it is very difficult for other parties to do so. That is why we think it is really important that such a group of independent experts be set up here to ensure the safety of all those people, companies and their employees in the Netherlands. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Authority (ANVS) will become an independent administrative body in 2017;]] [[Whereas the ANVS is the watchdog for all nuclear activities in the Netherlands and thereby monitors the risks associated with these activities;]] [[Whereas it is very important that supervision by and on the ANVS is ensured and that the appropriate expertise is available for that purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an Advisory Board for the ANSS, composed of independent, external experts from the Netherlands and abroad with a thorough knowledge of at least the substantive fields of competence "nuclear safety," "radioprotection" and the main process "monitoring and enforcement" which can provide the Board of the ANVS with, as far as possible, a public opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25422-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. The VVD welcomes the fact that we are legally anchoring the ANVS in 2017. It's about time. People have a lot of concerns. We will be discussing these concerns at the Nuclear Safety Agency this afternoon. The VVD is pleased to see the division between EZ and I and M proposed by the International Atomic Energy Agency and that the tasks and responsibilities are laid down by the Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Authority. This proposal can therefore also count on the support of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing we still have this meeting in the Lower House today. I agree with the criticism expressed by D66. It is important to ensure that independent supervision is properly ensured, also because of the problems we are now seeing in Belgium. We see that there are a lot of concerns among residents in the south of our country about the nuclear power plants in Doel and Tihange. Then it really comes down to a good supervisor, who is independent and who has good consultation with colleagues abroad. As Mr Remco Dijkstra of the VVD pointed out, we are talking about this in detail this afternoon. However, I do wonder how the Minister looks at what we have now chosen, namely this institution of a Zbo. Does this offer sufficient guarantees to be in close contact with colleagues in Belgium and to be able to deal with them properly? There have been inspections, but that's what I'm worried about. I wonder how we can get that back to the Minister, whether we can still talk to the Minister enough about it and whether she can do her job properly and ensure the safety of the inhabitants of our border region. I would like to have a more detailed explanation of the way in which she looks at this ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister has indicated that she can reply immediately. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Veldhoven was pleased with the monitoring arrangement that we have sent. I think it's good to know how it's organized at such an important organization. She indicated that she would have liked to add a supervisory board to the ANVS. The reason we set up the ANVS in this way is because we want a split between policy and supervision. We want to create an independent body. We have attracted people who must also be able to function fully in this independent role, hence the Zbo construction. There is a framework law on independent administrative bodies, which applies to all ZBOs and therefore also to these. That framework law says that there is no supervisory board in principle. It is also cabinet policy not to set up a supervisory board for new ZBOs. That is why there is no supervision too. The ANVS is actually already supervision and supervision of supervision might be exaggerated. The ANVS has a completely open attitude when it comes to attracting a board of experts or a board of advice, as it also likes to be able to spar. If you're the supervisor, that's just a lonely position. I can take over the motion. The ANVS will create a council of advice from the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	Excuse me, Minister, I have to ask if there is any objection to taking over the motion. I see that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	I suppose I'll be able to make another statement. As I said, the ANVS also likes to gather a group of experts around them. So that will work out well. They will draw up such an advisory board and will include the functioning and effectiveness of this circle or board in the public ANVS report and in the three-yearly report on the implementation of the IAEA Convention, so that, as far as possible, the information requested is also available. This IAEA report is also reviewed by independent international experts. The report and the results always go to the Chamber and are therefore also public. As far as I am concerned, we can simply set up such a board of advice. So it has nothing to do with the fact that we don't want a supervisor, but you want to put expertise aside. I personally believe that the ANVS is already an independent external council in itself. Mrs Mulder asked if if you pour it into a Zbo construction, I still have influence on what is happening in other countries. That's what we'll be talking about this afternoon. In principle, Belgium itself decides what it does with its nuclear energy. Its supervision is internationally regulated. That is what the FANC (Federal Nuclear Control Agency) is for. The FANC has the same structure as the ANVS. So Belgium also has independent supervision. On the other hand, the Belgian Minister and I agreed that the ANVR and the FANC should exchange their results, that we should be allowed to carry out inspections and that we should jointly organise communications in the border region. If more things are needed, that will be discussed. I am also talking to my Belgian colleague about the concerns I have and how I look at the case. I am sure we will talk about this this afternoon. I do not therefore feel that this Zbo construction is in any way an obstacle to addressing my Belgian colleague directly. As a Dutch minister, I do not have the power to shut down a Belgian nuclear power station, as we know. However, I do not feel any obstacle to having a direct discussion. We can address each other politically, but there is also the international circuit of supervisors. They can make decisions completely independently, including about us. If there's something going on with Borssele or another power station in the Netherlands, then our ANVS can just say that the tent has to close. I don't have anything to say about that, and that's a good thing.
