ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u1	We shall begin with the first term of office. In that we have something special, namely a maiden speech. But the person who would make his maiden speech isn't here yet. I'm sure he'll be here in time. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP Group, but only after I have once again welcomed the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, responsible for agriculture and nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u2	Mr. Chairman. What has four years of liberal politics achieved for farmers, nature, animals and our food? Almost half of pig and chicken farmers have lived below the poverty line for an average of 15 years. The market isn't helping them. The prices they receive for their chickens and pigs are insufficient. I deal with three aspects: purchasing power, competition and production control. Because of the large concentration of market power in a small number of supers, thousands of individual farmers can only say yes and amen at the price imposed on them. Does the Secretary of State agree that something needs to be done in this area? The Chamber supported my motion calling on the government to more actively detect and combat abuse of purchasing power. How's that going? When it comes to competition, farmers and fishermen need to be given more room to organise themselves, especially when it comes to sustainability. How's that going? Rutte, supported by PvdA executives, has failed to improve the earning model. In fact, the problems have got worse. By abolishing the milk quota there are far too many cows, we are in deep shit and the milk price has fallen by a quarter, which means that 10% of the farms will have to stop next year and 35% to 50% will have to ask for an extra loan. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that the abolition of the milk quota was a disastrous mistake? The policy of spending billions of agricultural subsidies, yet half of farmers are living in poverty, must be taken on board. The SP has done research among the farmers. This shows that 95% prefers a cost-covering price for its product rather than a subsidy. Does the Secretary of State agree that this is a desirable direction and that competition rules and purchasing power should be addressed and that production control is necessary? A farmer must be able to live off the price he or she gets for his or her products. Grants should focus on added value, such as grazing bird management, water storage or field edges. Governing is forward-looking. My question to the Secretary of State is: what will be the commitment to the new common agricultural policy? We are shocked by alarming figures, namely that thousands of farms will disappear because there are no successors. That's a big problem. The family farm, as a carrier of the rural environment, is failing and scaling up is thereby accelerating. Does the Secretary of State intend to develop an attack plan to facilitate the transition from farms to young farmers? Rutte leaves poverty and major problems for dairy farmers and trade unionists. For nature, the balance is just as bad. The Cabinets-Rutte cut half of the natural budget, but, as promised in the government agreement, we finish the nature of the main ecological structure. Well, I didn't. We get over 50,000 football fields less nature than planned. Then why is the coalition agreement broken? Where is the 2016 mid-term review promised in the coalition agreement? What happened to the commitment to a motion for better nature objectives, so that progress is made clear to the Chamber? The new Nature Protection Act brought deterioration: free play for hunters and 205 species of animals and plants are no longer protected, as are 64 protected natural monuments. If Pieter van Vollenhoven also thinks something is going on, can't the Secretary of State continue to play nicely? Is he prepared to protect those 64 protected natural monuments for a little longer, so that we can have an inventory of the consequences of the abolition? And how does the balance fall out for the animals? The Economic and Social Committee has recommended that we now make a major effort to improve the sustainability of livestock farming. I saw the Secretary of State answered yesterday. He's willing to use a director, but what does this mean for all those sectors? It is quite clear that enormous steps need to be taken and that there is also great social displeasure about developments. What is going to happen in this area? Can the Secretary of State elaborate on that? This is all the more necessary because the meadows have fallen dramatically, from 69% to 65% in one year, while in 2001 90% of the cows were still in the pastures. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that his intention to leave this to the sector has failed? He recognizes that mother pigs are still standing in bars that literally prevent them from turning their asses, despite the fact that we have friendly alternatives like the Pro Dromi stable. Secretary of State, move in! Room motions have also been adopted which advocated more litter and more distraction, but we still see a lack of distraction. Instead of bedding, pigs are given an amputated tail, while the ban on cutting tails in pigs is already 25 years old. When will this be enforced effectively? In the field of trade in dogs it is also worth a bit of a tooth. I'm referring to the shady puppy trade. We saw a broadcast of Broadcast Brabant the other day that doesn't cheer you up. Ongure types threaten journalists and consumers. What does the Secretary of State think of the proposal to set up a temporary task force to combat illegal trade in animals? I have an amendment on this in preparation. The whole cabinet period has been a sausage for people that there was a law on animal numbers and public health to come, but isn't that the law of inertia? Is that law there yet? Or is it coming? When can we see it? I think we should get to work. This is something the Secretary of State can really put into effect. If he doesn't want to be ringed by the VVD, he could take a step forward at this point. That's what he can do to meet the victims of the Q fever. Surely it is absurd that, on the one hand, companies are compensated for tens of millions, while, on the other hand, there is nothing done and no compensation fund for those who have been affected and sometimes even lost their lives. That's supposed to happen, isn't it? That is really necessary! After the majority of the fish processing industry had failed, the poultry slaughterhouses were also found not to be close to food safety and animal welfare. Mr Vanthemsche has now written two evaluation reports on the Dutch Food and Waren Authority (NVWA). Can that last report get an update? A former Secretary of State promised at the time that this would happen every three years. We are therefore asking because the Dutch Food and War Authority is still not working properly. In the last 15 years, one in three employees has disappeared. We really need to put the road up. More people and resources need to be deployed to enable the Dutch Food and Waring Authority to function effectively. I'll take stock of it. Much must be done in nature. The farmers are in a tight spot. The Dutch Food and War Authority is not functioning adequately. I know that the Secretary of State has only been there for a year and that we cannot hold him responsible for everything, but I can remember another debate in which I called him a superman. The hall applauded; they thought that was a good idea. If the Secretary of State took that attitude and dealt with some of the problems I mentioned, he might really deserve that title. If he wants to go for that, he could, as far as I am concerned, come back in a next cabinet, perhaps the cabinet of Roman I. In green education there is an absurdity. There is less money per pupil than in regular education. Does the Secretary of State want to find a solution to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u3	Lovely words from the SP Group on nature policy, but today a motion from me and the Labour Party was put to the vote on the so-called TOP areas, severely dried up areas that are very valuable in terms of quality. That motion had received a majority with the support of the SP. However, the SP did not support the motion and I would like to know why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u4	I'll find out. You're probably referring to Mr. Smaling. You will receive a second-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u5	I'm very curious. I address the SP Group, of which Mr Van Gerven is also a member. Once again, with the support of the SP, we could have stimulated those very vulnerable natural areas. A missed opportunity!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u6	I'll find out and you'll get a second-term answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u7	But you were just there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u8	Yes, I was there, and I voted, but you know how it is with these considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u9	With a lot of words I can also agree today; of course not with the Roemer cabinet, but that aside. The SP Group spoke about the serious income situation in agriculture and horticulture. It's serious. We agree. However, the SP also imposes additional requirements on the sector. The sows and a number of animal categories were mentioned. How does the SP deal with that: on the one hand chanting and woe and doing nothing on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u10	If you keep animals for whatever reason, for cosiness or for production, then that must be done with respect. An animal must then be able to exhibit the natural behavior. It's supposed to be the lead. That is why we strongly support a number of welfare requirements in the production sectors where animals are produced for consumption. Of course, there's a price on keeping animals decent. We believe that a decent cost plus a reasonable margin should be paid for the products supplied by the farmer. We have been advocating this for a long time. We also note that the position of individual farmers to market their products at a reasonable price is distorted. Something should be done about this, but not by violating animal welfare because of possible financial gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u11	I think this is serious anyway. On the one hand, the SP says it wants to stand up for farmers' incomes, but on the other hand, the SP gives them a blow in the neck by saying that animal welfare is not well secured in the Netherlands. I think that is a very bad thing. I would like to know why the SP thinks so, because no report says that animal welfare in the Netherlands is as bad as the SP is trying to put here. It's just not true. We belong to the top of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u12	I have just mentioned pig farming. That is an obvious example that it has really been derailed. The way those animals are kept is not okay across the board. Of 99% of pigs, the tails are cut, while they have been banned for 25 years. We know that cutting the tails is necessary, because the pigs are not kept properly. If they were kept in a decent way, they wouldn't have to cut their tails. Surely that is a clear example that we are not on the right track? If we keep animals, in this case pigs, for production, they must be able to keep their tails, namely by keeping them in a decent manner, with sufficient space, with litter and with sufficient distraction so that they do not harm each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u13	I think it is very special that this is being announced by the SP Group in the plenary. Let us look at the biological sector, which you strongly support. There too, tails are treated, because the suffering can be much greater if the tail stays on it. I do not agree with you on this point, but there too it is done to prevent further massacres. So I think it's a very special story you're keeping here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u14	I find it incomprehensible that a man who knows a lot about pig farming here proclaims that pigs can only be kept well if the tails are cut. I can't reach that with my hat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u15	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start by congratulating you. Not yet to Mr Van der Velde's address, I am still too early for this, but to that of the Animal Party, which has its ten-year anniversary today. Congratulations. For many people it is a matter of course to go to the supermarket to buy their meat, vegetables and fruit there. These products are on the shelves because farmers, gardeners and fishermen are available on their premises 24 hours a day 7 days a week. They ensure that we can buy good quality and affordable food. We, as consumers, have little thought about that. Nor do we consider that these entrepreneurs are concerned about the often one-sided social debate. The rules and the interference of the government are still a major concern: the feeling that the government is sitting in your seat. Left-wing clubs, such as Wake Dier and Greenpeace, take the lead in stimulating a one-sided discussion. They talk to people about the backs of our farmers, gardeners and fishermen, and seem to have only one goal, namely to substantially reduce agriculture and fisheries and to ban some sectors completely from the country. I can be very angry about that, as well as I have no respect for the cowboys in this country who believe that the rules apply to everyone except them. The government must also look at itself in the mirror. In spite of the efforts made in this area, the regulation is a great annoyance for farmers. The agricultural sector is a beautiful sector in all its facets, but much remains to be done. Many parties make us believe that the Netherlands is incredibly bad. However, we have worked hard to put the ground back in order after the crisis. We are now beginning to reap the benefits of this. Employment is increasing and more people are happy to find a job again. We have often dared to make difficult decisions against public opinion. We could count on criticism from the opposition, but the figures show that we have made sensible decisions. We have put the foundation in order and can now work step by step towards a better business environment. The Netherlands has been the world's second food exporter for years in a row. Dutch farmers are at the forefront of innovative developments, such as precision agriculture and solutions for CO reduction. Moreover, we now have the most sustainable fishing fleet in the world. The sector is highly productive and highly efficient, in other words, with little soil and raw materials a lot of food is produced. That happens in a careful way. For example, the use of plant protection products and antibiotics in animals has been significantly reduced in recent years. We can see that the fish population in the North Sea is growing, and this is the case thanks to the Dutch fishing fleet, which is at the forefront of sustainability. There is much international interest in the Dutch ship that consumes 60% less fuel. This example shows once again that the Netherlands has a leading role in sustainability and that cooperation, in this case between maritime companies, government and knowledge institutes, leads to beautiful things. In the preparation for this budget debate, I was inspired by a report by ABN AMRO, entitled In de ban van de pager. It warns a sector specialist that, without a European level playing field, potato cultivation from the Netherlands is likely to disappear. This led me to visit several companies in the potato sector. The companies I visited deal with processing, cultivation, marketing, export, up to and including the product, the potato, on the table. Not only the regulation was addressed, but also the challenges facing agriculture, such as climate change, food security and food safety. These are all challenges that the farmer and the gardener are thinking about. But let's say that these go beyond just the farmyard. Inspired by the potato I like to take the Chamber through that potato chain, albeit in large steps. I would like to start with the processing of plants. It's at the beginning of our food chain. We are able to develop a potato that is resistant to diseases and fungi, or a potato that thrives better in salt or brackish soil. At the moment, the processing seems to have stopped. Brussels does not clarify whether or not new techniques should be used. I call on the cabinet to pull this file with more force. Processing can contribute to key solutions to climate change and food security. She can do that not only in the Netherlands, but also in the rest of the world. Techniques must be safe for humans, plants, animals and the environment. This is particularly true when it comes to techniques where foreign DNA is used. But the techniques that are safe must be able to be used. The Netherlands must not lose its position in the processing sector. Furthermore, it is crucial that the Dutch and European knowledge are and remain in order on this dossier. The rest of the world doesn't sit still. Techniques devised on the other side of the world must be able to be assessed with our knowledge on whether their use is safe or not. Developments in precision agriculture follow each other at a rapid pace. In the past, a GPS system on a tractor was already a symbol of that precision agriculture. At the moment, new measurement techniques are already in place in conjunction with ICT applications, where soil conditions are accurately reflected and data on yield are added to other data very precisely during harvesting. Sensors in the field are also used. In this way the farmer can collect a large amount of information, allowing him to add very targeted minerals or fertilization to the plot. The use of plant protection products can also be much more targeted. The VVD strongly supports these innovative developments. Precision agriculture is dealing with variation. The regulation should not be a limiting factor. Last year I called on the cabinet to identify the obstacles and, where necessary, to remove them. I'm asking the Secretary of State to do something about this right now. Can he tell us when the House can expect the motion to be drawn up? Now, today, I would like to take a step further. The cabinet has dealt with the regulatory burden and achieved 2.5 billion reductions in charges. But the Secretary of State has also introduced a tailor-made approach to agrocluster. We have read that a number of identified bottlenecks have been resolved. However, in the discussions I have with entrepreneurs, I hear that they still miss a direct entrance where they can report their complaints or comments on regulation and barriers to new developments. I ask the Secretary of State to open an agri-business window, following the example of the Chemistry Window, set up by the Minister for Economic Affairs. It must be easily and digitally accessible to all sectors, from the arable sector to pig farming, from poultry to horticulture. So it really needs to be accessible to all sectors and chain partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u16	I will come back to the previous block, about innovation and sustainability. During the previous discussion of the budget last year, I proposed that subsidies from Europe should be directly linked to innovation and sustainability and that they should also be made transparent. I assume that, if I again make such a motion, Mrs Lodders will support it. I think it would be great if we could take that innovation and sustainability even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u17	This is a very nice little bridge to the next block, because I am going to deal with the common agricultural policy. Mrs Koşer Kaya knows that the VVD is keen to focus on sustainability and, in particular, on the innovation that makes this possible. If we are going to adapt the common agricultural policy to this, we must look at what is left behind when budget cuts are made. For it cannot be the case that the 19 directives that all farmers and growers have to comply with, especially farmers, but certainly also fishermen when it comes to fisheries policy, continue to exist, while budgets go to very different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u18	I propose that Mrs Lodder give her part of the argument and that Members be given the opportunity to interrupt afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u19	It's a long block, though. I'm fine with it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u20	You want to interrupt now, Mrs. Koşer Kaya? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u21	I'd love to, because this is very important. As far as regulation is concerned, Mrs Lodders and I find each other quickly. Together we have tabled a motion to show the forest through the trees and to make a single arrangement. On the issue of linking European subsidies to sustainability and innovation, I would like a clear answer from Mrs Lodders. Are we really going to use subsidies from Europe for sustainability and innovation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u22	The next year we will be discussing in detail in this Chamber the new conditions and the negotiations for the common agricultural policy in Brussels. There are two very important things for the VVD. The first is that the budgets available are used for innovation. The second is that we are removing all those rigid rules that govern measures rather than targets. I will come up with some examples of this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u23	Mrs. Koşer Kaya still? If we make a bet, we'll finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u24	Yes, Mr. Chairman, if that's all right, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u25	It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u26	Then I note that the VVD will work with me on innovation and sustainability when it comes to agricultural subsidies. On the other point, Mrs Lodders wishes to speak in this way. If necessary, I will ask a question about that. I welcome the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u27	It's no surprise. Last year, just before the budget debate, I wrote an opinion article on the new common agricultural policy, because we believe that the current policy is bankrupt because it frustrates innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u28	Mrs. Lodders was just talking about the regulatory burden that would have been reduced. She mentioned the figure of 2.5 billion. That's for the whole economy. What is Mrs Lodder's view of the regulatory burden in agriculture sec?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u29	The cabinet has set itself a strong ambition: 2.5 billion. I note that there is also a net income for agriculture. I'd have liked to have seen that yield higher, but net we have revenue. I have a number of examples, because I would have expected this question from you or Mr Geurts. I can mention the numbers, but I think Mr Geurts has them available. That is precisely why I propose the agro-stop shop, to take that next step and make a move.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u30	Mr Geurts will undoubtedly have them at his disposal. Well, at least I do. If you're just looking at agriculture, you're right. But if you look at regulations relating to agriculture and they are in other ministries, I really come up with a plus in the regulatory burden. The regulatory pressure has increased by 13.08 million. So how does Mrs. Lodder calculate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u31	Let me give you a few examples. The inclusion of agricultural activities in the Activity Decision gives a very substantial benefit of 37 million in total. Of course, this is not all about agriculture. I refer to the reduction of the supervisory burden in the meat chain and the abolition of the Farm Registry. A reduction in the burden on veterinary medicinal products has been achieved. In the PAS a load relief has been introduced. The NVWA has taken a number of steps, including the adjustment of the export system, which has an advantage. I can quote from the overview. I don't think that's very wise. I would have liked to have realized more for the sector. A number of measures have been taken in the sector, particularly in the livestock sector. I mentioned the ground-based growth of livestock farming. Next week, in all likelihood, the phosphate rights law will be added. On balance, I am happy to see that a number of steps have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u32	We also have all kinds of people watching with us. The NVWA is the...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u33	That's the Dutch Food and Service Authority, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u34	I know, but we have to try to say abbreviations in full once in a while. Then people can better follow the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u35	It is very good that you point that out to me. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u36	The examples mentioned by Mrs Lodders are of course beautiful. There are, but what does she think of the amendment to the fire safety decision, plus 25 million. Tightening antibiotic rules: plus 10 million. Abolition of product shelves: 9 million. Tightening emissions of particulate matter: 7.5 million. Ammonia: 12.5 million. Decision on low-emission housing: 5 million. Tractor license: 4 million. You don't just have to look at the agricultural budget, because the tractor licence is with I and M, for example. If you add all these things together, you'll come up with a 13 million-dollar increase in the number of rules for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u37	I have certainly looked at all the other ministries where measures have been taken or a reduction has taken place. It is very nice that Mr Dijkgraaf mentions a number of examples, but there are also a number of examples of things that we have found very sensible with each other. We agree on the policy on antibiotics and on the reduction of antibiotics. We agree that such important steps have been taken in the field of public health, animal health, in a broad sense. You can't always say, "We're gonna keep it at zero." These are important steps forward. Mr Dijkgraaf also knows that the VVD has been very critical about many other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u38	If I may have a fourth time, Mr. Chairman, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u39	If you don't think you've received an answer. Let me explain how it works. If people really don't think they got an answer, they can say something. Hacking into their gratitude for the answer doesn't make much sense. Then it's gonna be later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u40	No. I have a very specific question. Thank you for that space. I will use it sparingly. The point is, if you put all these things together neatly and add them all together, that statement unfortunately doesn't work. There are substantive discussions behind that. Does Mrs Lodder have another list that doesn't add up to 13 million and what doesn't count?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u41	No, I have tried to point out that there are a lot of things that have actually benefited agriculture. I have just mentioned the example of antibiotics, but I can also mention the example of abolishing product boards. There has been a lot of regulation from product shelves one-on-one to regulation, not because the Court wanted it very badly, though: a large number of parties did; the VVD was very critical of it but precisely because the sector has asked to do so. I include him in the list, of course, because that gives an honest picture, but those are the steps that have been taken. And I understand that, but that's exactly why I want to open that agro counter. I would just like to take the next step to move forward, because I think there are still a lot of challenges. I think Mr Dijkgraaf will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u42	I was already a bit announced. A small correction, it was not a question of the tractor licence, because we voted unanimously in favour of it. I think Mr Dijkgraaf is referring to the tractor registration, but that's a little sidelined. I see that the VVD Group and Mrs Lodders are taking a flight forward. They present new policies in each budget, but let us talk about the promises of the past. What's left of these promises? I remember Mrs Lodders walking around with a calf in the run-up to the 2012 elections. That's where all kinds of people wrote down all kinds of rules they wanted to get rid of. My specific question to Mrs Lodders is: what rules did she abolish from that calf?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u43	I did not expect that question, but it is very nice that Mr Geurts is asking this question. One of the great annoyances in the research on water quality was that agriculture was mainly and exclusively looked at. We have taken steps in this respect. One of the very great frustrations that was mentioned several times was the NVWA. We'll keep an extra finger on the wrist at NVWA. We talked about a review of the NVWA's task package. On that calf we had also put in place a number of measures on the common agricultural policy, in particular on greening. Unfortunately, I have not been able to delete the 5% and unfortunately I have not been able to implement the greening measures in full width in the Chamber either. Why not? Because the CDA abandoned me in particular. Another element is hunting, which is particularly important for the people in the wooded areas. This element has been maintained in the Law of Nature. I can continue, Mr President, but you can see that I can present a number of examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u44	Coming back to that calf, there was nothing on that calf about the common agricultural policy. Check it out. At least on the nights I was there, it wasn't set up. That's one. Two. In previous debates, Mrs Lodders said that the Netherlands should become the first agro-exporter in the world. What happened to that? Nothing. She's talking about fewer rules, but they've only become more. Mr Dijkgraaf has just mentioned a number of examples of this. Mrs Lodders has indicated in the past that she is going to tackle manure policy; what is appropriate to crop requirements? To date, equivalent manure measures, which are important for arable farming, have not been regulated. The costs of the NVWA have also increased. I was in Groningen yesterday, where an entrepreneur charged me. It was a lot more than I thought. I charged €250 an hour, but the costs are already higher. What has the VVD achieved over the past four years on the points mentioned by Mrs Lodder? He-le-nothing! The costs have only increased, it has only become more expensive and it is becoming more difficult for the agricultural entrepreneurs in the Netherlands to undertake, thanks to the policy of VVD and Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u45	This looks a little like your third term. What is your question to Mrs Lodders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u46	We have about four months left. What will Mrs Lodder achieve in those four months? Let's make it three months. Then we have a month to campaign and stand together. What can I pay Mrs. Lodder for in three months?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u47	I note that not only does the chairman of the CDA present a very gloomy picture, but also Mr Geurts as an agricultural spokesman presents a very gloomy picture here. I think that's kind of sad. I have outlined a sector with enormous challenges, a sector which has to do with a number of issues that go far beyond just the farmyard. The debates in this house are very limited to that farmyard, which we all have a responsibility for. But it is farmers, gardeners and fishermen who think along with it and take the steps forward. Also at the time of the crisis, in which it was against all entrepreneurs, but of course also our agricultural sector, we managed to remain the world's second food exporter. Then praise is in order and not a gloomy image as Mr Geurts puts it. Then there's the manure policy. We've been talking about derogation negotiations in this house for years. This is the first time that a formal letter from the cabinet states that, under the derogation, we are going to call for the phosphate production ceiling to be abolished or, at least, for a netting to be carried out. In all previous years it may have been discussed, but it was never taken in black and white in the shopping bag to Brussels. Mr Geurts knows as well as I do that we cannot deal with it overnight. That is a difficult and tough process. We will discuss this with each other next week. You can sit back and paint a gloomy picture, but you can also put your hands up and make sure that we take those steps. I'd like to do the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u48	Mr Geurts, briefly. It's an interruption, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u49	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. We'll keep practicing here. Mrs. Lodders sketches a beautiful Netherlands. I'm going for a better Netherlands; that's what I need. Just get on the farm. Go see what that beautiful Netherlands looks like that she's trying to sketch here. It's not being polite, and it's not being polite. I was just asking what to charge her for, but I haven't gotten a very clear answer to that. Perhaps she can sum it up in one sentence when we are in front of that room. What's she going for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u50	I've made a lot of work visits in the last few months. Why? Because the debate is taking place in this house, but you cannot have that debate if you do not know what is going on in the sector. So I go to work a lot, all over the country. Further on in my speech I come up with an action plan. I'll offer that to the Secretary of State. I now outline a number of steps that we would like to take. Those are also difficult steps. Once again, we know how viscous the policy is in Brussels. I'm not going to promise to change the manure policy tomorrow, because I can't live up to that. I'm not gonna let you put that promise in my mouth either. In the coming financial year, we will be discussing the new common agricultural policy. You know the wish of the VVD: an agricultural policy aimed at stimulating innovation. The strict guidelines in Europe do not help us to develop new innovations. Directives should pursue an objective and not be a dictation as to how a Member State should achieve that objective, let alone the Netherlands should interpret the directives more strictly. In recent years, a number of examples have been put forward showing that the Netherlands is applying the rules rigidly and also in line to argue for stricter rules. Take the field edges. In Europe, the Secretary of State goes along with the movement not to allow chemicals. Without any explanation, everyone will take that for granted, but in the explanation that you want to use field edges in the fight against an annoying potato eel this position does not fit. Africans work very well to combat the eel, but then you have to be able to fight the weeds in these field edges, otherwise the eel remains a source of food. This is an example of at first sight sympathetic rules which, however, lead to an opposite goal. I don't think that's the intention. Let's take a little trip. In the fisheries sector, too, we want existing laws and regulations to be reviewed and assessed on the basis of regulatory pressure, competitiveness and innovation promotion. Drawing table measures such as landing duty may sound nice, but lead to an opposite result. This has been discussed many times over the past few weeks. The above-mentioned agri-business window should also be accessible to fisheries. I'm going back to the potato. An important element in food production is soil and soil fertility. Dutch agriculture is highly productive and due to its high yield, more nutrients are extracted from the soil in proportion to the amount of nutrients added by fertilization. Environmental rules allow only a limited amount of animal manure to provide the soil with new nutrients. This is in order not to endanger the quality of groundwater. All the farmers I have spoken to in the past period indicate that soil fertility is deteriorating. We need to reverse this tide. What steps does the Secretary of State intend to take in this respect? His predecessor had talks with entrepreneurs on this issue. What happened to that input? Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine whether organic residues can be used as soil improvers without adversely affecting the placement space? A plus quality compost could offer opportunities. This also fits in with the pursuit of a circular economy. The NVWA, the Dutch Food and War Authority, has an important role in the food chain. We know this organization, which controls food safety. However, it also has an important role in export certification. For potato cultivation, the NVWA contracted a number of tasks to the NAK, the Netherlands General Inspection Service. Several studies have shown that this works very well. The quality of controls and the issue of export certificates is high. The costs are low compared to the rates of the NVWA. We all know the critical note about the NVWA and I also want to crack it, because there are still too many examples in which the NVWA acts as a rigid, inward-looking organization. Last week I asked questions with my colleague Barbara Visser about the fish auction on Urk. Three halls are threatened with closure, because the laws of nature are not taken into account. Once again, the Chamber has received a number of examples. I would have liked to request a response to this afternoon's petition at the procedural meeting. I will do that tomorrow, because it does not belong in this Chamber. We also received an extensive letter and the report on the charging of the rates from the NVWA. I am not going to go into that today, because my group needs to ask a number of written questions about it first. If we discuss this tomorrow, we can, fortunately, have the debate on the NVWA before the end of the year. Today, I shall confine myself to the question of whether the Secretary of State is prepared to examine whether more tasks of the NVWA are outsourced. I am thinking of tasks that can be taken over by other laboratories or knowledge institutes, as is the case with the NAC. Is the Secretary of State prepared to inform the House of this? The Secretary of State has included a Food Agenda in the budget. He wants to put three priorities: young learn to eat, transparency and innovation in the food chain. Learning young is of course important, but I also see this as a task of the parents. Moreover, this theme is reflected in many existing programmes. Perhaps in this agenda, the Secretary of State can pay attention to the fair story: no longer the teaching material in schools sponsored by left-wing environmental clubs, but the dissemination of knowledge about our healthy, high-productive and innovative agriculture, which has solutions to issues such as climate change and food security. I have appointed a number of steps or parts within potato cultivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u51	I see Mrs Koşer Kaya coming to the microphone with a very excited face.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u52	I have a bit of a problem with that populist cries every time about 'the left-wing nature clubs', because without them, a lot of innovation and sustainability would not happen. So I'm glad they let us watch our backs and let us watch our backs. I hope that goes for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u53	Then it would adorn all those clubs if the teaching material on all these unfair practices disappeared from schoolrooms, because the sector has taken steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u54	Mrs Lodders is doing exactly what she blames nature organisations for, namely putting them away. I would like to make that point quite specific here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u55	Mrs Koşer Kaya may make that point, but I do not share it. I would like to refer her to, for example, the website of the NVV, the Dutch Association of Varkenhouwers, which, in collaboration with LTO and a number of other organisations, lists all kinds of teaching packages in which these kinds of falsehoods are discussed, still, while those things no longer exist in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u56	I have the feeling that Mrs Lodders is now sitting on the judge's seat and decides who gives or doesn't give honest information. So I can start shouting from the other side, but I don't think that's so effective. If we want to improve this, and if we want to make agriculture, nature and fisheries more sustainable, both sectors are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u57	You spoke to me, but everyone here can decide what they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u58	A short response: if you challenge a sector or sectors and if you see that they are taking important steps, it's a good idea to communicate that too and not to go on like a caterpillar-never-enough. If we want livestock farming in the Netherlands to take steps in the field of animal welfare in this area, and if it is to be a leader in the world, and if it is to provide solutions to the CO problem in this world, then you must also be so honest in communicating it. It starts in elementary school, with our schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u59	Mrs. Koşer Kaya, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u60	Mrs. Lodders is "sending." Fortunately, in her last reaction, she indicated that there is a nuance to this. I think that nuance is absolutely necessary in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u61	I didn't hear that nuance with myself. Of course, you always have to look at the facts and the practice. With regard to animal welfare, climate, food safety and food security, livestock farming has taken very important steps. Let us also communicate and share that rather than talk about 'coffin calf farming' and all kinds of other terms that we have not known in this country for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u62	I'm really starting to worry about those horrible left-wing nature clubs that lie to us all. Can Mrs Lodders just give us some good examples of these abuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u63	I have just referred to the website of the Dutch Association of Varkenhouwers, on which various inventories have been published with various interest groups. I myself asked Parliament questions about a teaching package, a raid assignment, which talks about casket calves, about intensive animal husbandry, about livestock industry and about bio-industries. You may have an opinion on this, but given the facts, it is not fair to set up the sector in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u64	Does Mrs Lodder mean the 'lies' that intensive livestock farming exists in the Netherlands, in which pigs and calves are kept on very few square meters without outside space and without further comfort? I am trying to find out which abuses are being denounced, because it is very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u65	It is precisely the example that Mr Grashoff mentions. But I see a certain look in Mr Grashoff's eyes. He sets up a sector in a certain way, but that is not the representative image of livestock farming as we know it today in our country. These entrepreneurs do their best, seven days a week, 24 hours a day. They take great care of their animals. They have the housing in order very well because the rules here are much stricter than in the countries around us. I would like to mention the example of pig farming. A Dutch pig has almost 25% more floor space than pigs in countries around us. You can stand there laughing a little weird, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u66	I'm not laughing at all. I wasn't laughing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u67	I'm saying this through you, Mr. Chairman. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u68	Speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u69	It shouldn't be any crazier! I saw those pig stables with my own eyes, just like Mrs. Lodders. I'm closer to crying than laughing. By the way, I have to go through a shower and then back through a shower to prevent all kinds of diseases from occurring among the thousands of pigs. Will Mrs Lodder just say: in the Netherlands, we cannot be told that there is a huge intensive livestock sector, in which millions of pigs are kept, of which less than 50% are slaughtered in the Netherlands and the rest are transported hundreds of kilometres live across the border? Can't that be said? What kind of society does Mrs. Lodder stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u70	I want the honest story to be presented to the consumer, not the story of Mr Grashoff, who tells it as if intensive livestock farming is a pile of animals in stables. I challenge Mr Grashoff to join us on a work visit. Mrs Koşer Kaya and I have recently been on a fantastic company, a large company with a large number of animals. I hope Mrs Koşer Kaya supports my statement that this is a wonderful company, that these animals have the space and are well cared for. Then it is unfair to such a sector to present such an image to the outside world. I'm gonna distance myself from that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u71	I know pig farmers who do it all the way, but they are a very small minority. The majority use standard production methods, which the dogs don't like bread.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u72	I see it the other way around. That's why I started to say that I am terribly disturbed and angry about those cowboys who are ruining it for all those other people. Fortunately, they are only a very small part of our country. The vast majority of them take great care of the animals, based on all the demands we make in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u73	I can support Mrs Lodder's plea to look closely at the teaching material. I, too, see through email and Twitter footage coming to me that really doesn't match reality. But how is it that there is so much ignorance among the people in our country and in education about what is going on in the daily practice of farming? Should the solution not be sought much more in linking farmers and citizens much more and in providing fair food education in schools, for which a petition has also been launched? Is that also a matter for which Mrs. Lodders can be poked?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u74	I see that the sector is taking important steps in this respect. On open days, for example, companies open the doors of their stables. Those are very important steps. It is not for nothing that I raise this issue in the context of the Food Agenda. Let's bring out the honest story. As far as I'm concerned, that starts at school as well, in class packages. If Mrs Dik-Faber comes up with a motion or an amendment on Thursday to impose everything from the government... I think we should draw attention to this with each other. That's why I'm bringing it up here. It does not help to portray the entire livestock sector in this Chamber as a terrible sector, because the vast majority of it is doing very well, as I hear Mrs Dik-Faber say, and we should be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u75	The vast majority of it is doing very well and I am also very proud of our agricultural sector, but I can also see that there is still a bit of alienation. That's what I'm worried about, because people don't automatically end up in the farmyard anymore. Back in the day, one or two generations ago, you always had a brother or a father working on a farm. Nowadays, that's not the case anymore, and I'm looking for ways to restore that connection. I hear Mrs Lodder saying that she doesn't want to do that from the government, but I think you can't just leave it to society. In the case of teaching packages and the connection between farmer and citizen, a piece of government facilitation will also be needed. I'd like to hear a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u76	The government doesn't belong to the class packages. It's not the government's decision, and it's certainly not the content. We can therefore draw attention to this. I welcome Mrs Dik-Faber's question, because this is an important point for her too. I myself regularly go to work, even in schools. Then I give a lesson for the seventh or eighth grade, and I tell you about my work here, but certainly also about the contacts I have in the agricultural sector, and about how important it is for children to look at farms. Of course, there are a lot of beautiful teaching packages. There are also the visits of schools to farms. I just think that's wonderful, and we need to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u77	Finally, very briefly. A petition has been launched for structural food education. The government is not about teaching packages, but we may be able to support this in order to see how we can better anchor that education. I hope that the VVD Group will also support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u78	I think we are going to have a debate on food policy in the not too long term. This seems to me to be a subject that we can certainly involve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u79	I actually regret what Mrs Lodder says, because I share with her that our farmers lead the way, although unfortunately the way animals are kept often get an inadequate one. It can be done much better, and I am very much in favour of it, but we must also ensure that farmers are paid better. I have also tabled a motion on this. Does Mrs Lodder agree with me that education is very important and that you should teach children what they eat and drink? I really believe that there will be many more vegetarians if children know what they eat and drink. I'm sure you do. I'm sure you do. That goes for everyone I take a day with the animal police, but you can also let someone walk with the NVWA. I know a lot of people who have become a vegetarian instantly. This information must therefore remain available. The choice of continuing to do so is up to the consumer. That's up to the people, but you have to give good information. Mrs. Lodders doesn't want to get rid of that good information, does she? Finally, I would like to get a response to the following. Children should know about the ritual torture of animals. On public service broadcasting, paid with our taxpayers' money, is pretending to be halal healthy, some sort of way of life. It's just the biggest torture of millions of animals a year. I mean, all that has to be transferred to those kids, right? Mrs. Lodders can't disagree with me, can she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u80	I'll untie something; that's good to see. I have indicated that I find the theme Young Learning Eat that is one of the points that the Secretary of State put forward in his letter "an important task for parents." But of course there are a lot of good initiatives, such as Healthy School, Taste Lessons and School Fruit. You can agree with that or not, but a lot of steps are already being taken. Mr Graus also spoke about the media. I don't think we're a referee for what's right or wrong, for what's right or wrong. People have to make their own choices. If I have heard correctly, there has recently been talk in the Media budget of a particular person who could be some sort of referee. It has a special name, but I can't think of that right now. I'll take a look at the chairman, although of course he's not gonna help me. If you have complaints about what is being broadcast on the public network, you can lodge your complaint with that person. I hope that person gets there real soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u81	Some kind of ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u82	That's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Graus can certainly go there with his complaints. However, I would not want to force it in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u83	However, we must ensure that good information is transmitted. That's our job, too. The VVD is a powerful party, especially until March 2017. Mrs Lodders talks about parents, but some parents live a few hundred years back in time and they pass that on to their children. If I bring those Muslim children or Jewish children, they'll never want to eat one piece of ritually tortured meat again. I guarantee you that. That's because I'm making it clear to them what kind of animal suffering precedes it. Children can be influenced if they receive good information. Kids don't know what they're eating or drinking anymore. I spoke to a teacher who said kids think chocolate milk comes from a brown cow and milk comes from a white cow. That's too sad for words. We all have to watch for that. I want to make my point for the last time. We must make it clear to children, including Muslim children and Jewish children, that ritual torture of animals is the grossest form of animal cruelty that our country still knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u84	That it is important that children know where their food comes from, I subscribe. I spoke to a little girl the other day in a school class who thought spinach grew on the side of the freezer and ended up in a box. The example has often been mentioned. That's bizarre, of course. However, I do not think that we should impose it from this house and adapt the teaching programmes to that. We are not going to determine the fair story here, Mr Graus. I think that we have a responsibility to each other in a good and honest way to come out on this issue. I think that the Secretary of State will certainly address this issue, because it is part of his food agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u85	Mr Graus, do you think that you have not yet received an answer to a particular issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u86	I'm allowed to respond to what Mrs. Lodder is saying now, aren't I? Otherwise there is no point in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u87	I don't agree with you. You will have the opportunity to say something yourself and you will have a second term. I give you the opportunity now, but in general it does not work that everyone can interfere, because then it will be half past four in the morning, and we are not going to do that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u88	But then I don't understand something. Colleagues of mine are allowed to interrupt four or five times, and I will be dealt with twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u89	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u90	Yes, it is. You shouldn't measure with double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u91	Go ahead, but what you're saying doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u92	It's a job of ours. It's the government's job. It is about information and education. Each party is involved in this, but when it comes to this issue, which affects millions of animals, should we not interfere? I think that's bullshit. After all, the parents don't do it. They are often people who often live hundreds of years back in time, and that is not derogatory. They can't give that to the kids. That's what we have to do from our civilization, especially when they're here. It's the government's job. We control the government, so we certainly have something to crumble in the milk. That's right. I wonder what Mrs Lodder can still object to such a sympathetic request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u93	Mr Graus is merely making sympathetic requests. I have said what I said and I will continue with my speech, otherwise I will challenge Mr Graus once again to a reaction. I'd like to wait for his input. Perhaps then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u94	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u95	Yes, please. I've appointed a number of steps, parts, within potato cultivation. Unfortunately, I cannot be complete and therefore I would like to offer the Secretary of State an action plan, entitled 'The Netherlands pagerland'. In this I mention different topics and actions. I was inspired by the Dutch potato, which is highly regarded worldwide. Yesterday, RTL News illustrated this beautifully, which showed that the Chinese are warming up for our beeper and our fries. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to hand over the action plan to the Secretary of State through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u96	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u97	Mr President, to give you some inspiration from this debate, I would like to hand you the cookbook Power to the Pieper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u98	Excuse me? To the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u99	Yes, to the chairman. I'm guessing the Secretary of State already has this book. I dare you to prepare one of these beautiful recipes tomorrow, because the chain is round: the processing with which I started, up to and including a beautiful product on the table. Mr President, I would ask you to see this cookbook as a symbol of all the beautiful products that our country is rich in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u100	Thank you very much. I'll see if I can make something nice with my 22-year-old son.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u101	Good luck. In the meantime, my time is running, and I've got a little bit left. I chose the potato, but the other sectors deserve just as much attention, whether it is the tomato from the Westland, the plaice from the North Sea or the pig from my cousin's stable, or the milk produced from my neighbor's. Each sector faces challenges. Next week in this Chamber we will discuss dairy farming in detail. In two weeks' time we will be discussing animal diseases, among other things. As far as I am concerned, the bird flu, which is affecting poultry farming, will also be dealt with there. At a time when pig farming has not always been successful in the sector. I would also like to express my appreciation of pig farming. The Vitalisation Action Plan on Pigs is a wonderful example of how the sector addresses important challenges it faces and seeks a solution. The Holland Pig actually deserves a place in the cookbook. I want to move on to the part of nature, but I see some...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u102	Mr Dijkgraaf, is your question about the last discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u103	I have some general questions about what I'm missing so far. That's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u104	I'd do that all the way to the end. You don't know what you're missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u105	I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u106	Mr Van Gerven on what has been discussed so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u107	I take it Mrs Lodders has spoken out on animal husbandry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u108	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u109	The VVD is in office for six years and has a lot to say. In Mrs Lodder's speech, I miss the dramatic developments in intensive livestock farming. I would like to hear from her what she thinks she is going to do about the enormous scale increase that is going on or is threatening to happen. We've seen the numbers. Let's take the dairy farming: a third of the dairy farms are gonna quit inside now and grab it for five years. What's the VVD gonna do about that huge shakeout?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u110	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u111	That huge bald blow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u112	What will the VVD do about it? The VVD speaks with great appreciation about the sector. The SP and the VVD differ on the image presented by Mr Van Gerven. In fact, it is not surprising that more and more people are becoming disgusted with the sector when such a negative picture is presented. The VVD is looking for space for development, so that entrepreneurs can take a further step. Sometimes this requires far-reaching measures. As I have announced, I would like to have a debate with the Chamber next week on dairy farming. Sometimes you have to take far-reaching measures to take a next step towards the future. I do not see it as gloomy as Mr Van Gerven has just outlined it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u113	Mrs. Lodders doesn't answer my question. My conclusion, at least, is not that I am so honest with you, but that of those who analyse the sector is that within five years, 5 000 dairy farms will be hit. They're stopping. There are fewer and fewer traditional family farms left, and we are getting bigger and bigger companies. There is also the problem of succession, and so on. So I repeat my question: what will the VVD do about this? The VVD is in power in the Netherlands, at least until March; hopefully a little less afterwards. However, it is now in power and has certain thoughts on developments in intensive livestock farming. What is the VVD going to do to keep the family farm on its feet and stop the huge undesirable scale increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u114	I have just said: according to the VVD, it is not about the amount of animals in a stable, but it is about keeping and caring for them. I note that this is the case. The VVD is looking for opportunities for entrepreneurs to undertake. That is why we are so reluctant. Time and time again, we ask for less rules, because every rule we lay down with each other works as a barrier to entrepreneurs. I'd like to ask the SP to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u115	I note that Mrs Lodders is avoiding the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u116	I am not avoiding him; you do not agree with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u117	No, you're avoiding my question. This was: how does the VVD feel that within five years a third of these companies will be gone and 50% more will be produced per company? Let me add the figures for dairy farming: now it is 800 tonnes; within five years it will be 1,200 tonnes. Let me broaden my question. What can we, politics, do about this, assuming that we do not want this enormous increase in scale in rural areas? We need to nurture the family business. We don't want that big scale, we don't want those mega companies. What can we do to stop the increase in scale? What can we do about the phenomenon that many farmers have no successor? What are we going to do about it, Mrs Lodders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u118	Just got off the phone with you. You shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u119	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u120	Do not mix up and preferably speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u121	Mr Van Gerven wants me to say that we are totally opposed to such large companies. I would like to put a counter question to Mr Van Gerven, but I know that is not the intention, so I will not do that. A company that produces a million litres of milk is still that family business we are talking about here. The company belongs to father and mother, and the son is eager to get to work as a company successor. The VVD wants fewer rules and more space and flexibility, so entrepreneurs can continue their business. If we put up all kinds of obstacles to these entrepreneurs over and over again, the interest will disappear. That's not a miracle. Fortunately, there are still a lot of young entrepreneurs who are eager to get to work. Let us talk about this sector with enthusiasm, respect and pride, even here in the debate. I was at the CAH two weeks ago, the Christian Agricultural College in Dronten. I was a guest there with over 60 students eager to get to work at home. I cherish that. I am not going to say that it is only about mega-businesses or huge companies. It's not about the number of animals. The point is that an entrepreneur can earn a good living, that he can undertake and that he takes care of his animals with respect and pride. In many cases, that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u122	Mr Van Gerven, I hesitate. Do you know why? Because you're not gonna convince each other. I'll give you one last opportunity, but then it's really gonna stop, because then it's gonna be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u123	I note that there is a difference of opinion between the SP and the VVD. The SP says we shouldn't continue the scaling. In fact, a farm with 80 dairy cows should be able to earn a decent living. The VVD says, "Let's keep growing." In about five years' time, companies will be 50% larger. What's it like in 10 years? We do not want that development. I want to go to a current, concrete problem. About 40% of 55-plus farmers say they don't have a successor. How are we gonna fix that? If we do not try to find decent successors, the companies around them will build up and take on that. Then the unbridled damage goes on, while there's a lot of people who want to take over the company. However, they are unable to do so because they do not live in that family and it is therefore complicated. I'm making the question concrete. What can we, as politicians, as a government, do to create more opportunities for a company to be properly handed over to young farmers, so that the unbridled increase in scale can also be slowed down?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u124	Mrs. Lodders responds, and I'd like to do without entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u125	I'm gonna try that, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to see if I can find Mr. Van Gerven. That starts by saying that we should also have a positive debate on the sector in this Chamber. Let us make sure that we evaluate the Young Agricultural Scheme, which is part of the common agricultural policy, so that it meets the wishes of young farmers. That is not the case at the moment. The NajK, the Dutch Agricultural Youth Contact, carried out an evaluation. The young farmers do not really have much use for this arrangement at the moment. Let us find each other and call on the Secretary of State, with that evaluation in hand, to ensure that the scheme is in line with the wishes of young farmers. Let us not think dumb when a company is divided by companies in the area. We all know that standstill is decline. You need a certain development to ensure sufficient size. Again, I'm not so negative to think that in ten or twenty years' time we'll only have very large companies. This cannot be done in this country, because we have all kinds of environmental rules. We have put a lot of frameworks in the Land Planning Act and now the Environment Act. So that doomsday is not necessary. Then let's not. Let us talk about the scheme for young farmers, so that we can get things in order, and that is in line with the wishes of that target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u126	I have a brief quote for Mrs Lodder: "The environmental pressure of agriculture on nature and water remains too high. (...) The high production volume leads to high ammonia emissions, too much manure, pollution of surface water and too much phosphate. (...) An important key to achieving nature objectives (...) and water quality standards (...) lies in the agricultural sector." This isn't Milieudefensie or any other scary left-wing club. It is all of us Plan Bureau for the Environment that makes this very clear and clear. Mrs Lodders has completely ignored this whole story about agriculture. Would she like to respond to this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u127	I'd like that. We will do so in greater detail next week, but I am not going to run away from a question which Mr Grashoff asks me. But if we are talking about environmental pressure and if we are talking about too much phosphate, which Mr Grashoff is talking about in the quotation, then we must look at the innovations that are currently possible. We see that regulation, particularly in Brussels, is currently frustrating our innovations. You can say: we have too much manure, so we need less animals. You can also say: we're going to look for opportunities and opportunities. That is a good thing, and I hope that I will see Mr Grashoff with a smile on his face here in this Chamber. Let us ensure that we remove phosphate from manure and waste water, so that we are no longer dependent on imports of phosphate from countries such as Morocco or Syria. China has already closed its borders. Then we are making an added value of it, rather than, here again, apologizing, Mr President-in-Office, doomsday thinking in the direction of the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u128	Mrs. Lodders lives in a fantasy world. You can extract phosphate from manure. You can, but it won't, because it's way too expensive. It is therefore not a question of technological progress. It is an economic model that is being pursued, which always does not want to set a limit on the number of animals, while in every respect we are dealing with shoes. If it is not nitrogen emissions, it is phosphate emissions. Each time there is hiding away, fleeing and an ostrich policy. Mrs Lodders is the great champion of this: denying the problem and then keeping a nice story about agriculture. Why doesn't Mrs Lodder choose quality in agriculture instead of quantity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u129	At the moment, it is indeed expensive to extract phosphate from manure and other waste. Why? Because we have not arranged with each other that we can then use the product we withdraw from it. If we are going to settle this with each other, we can take a step in that direction. Then you'll be able to measure that in a better way. Mr Graus said for a reason: manure is brown gold. You should be able to measure that. Of course, there are a lot of good substances in manure. A second example is the mineral concentrate. We are in a position to do so and we are much further away from that. Pilots show that this has no negative effects on the environment, but Brussels does not allow us to use it. When we start using the fertilizer concentrate, we solve a number of problems. We value the manure and no longer see it as a problem. We therefore need much less fertilizer. The fertilizer industry is the largest natural gas consumer in this country, I say to you through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u130	We're going very deep now, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u131	These are a number of examples from which I would like to show that Mr Grashoff can say that it is too expensive, but that this is because we have not further regulated sales. You will have to take those further steps to make it interesting for the entrepreneur. By the way, I'm going for quality. I refer to precision agriculture and innovation. All this is full of quality and is not just based on quantity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u132	You can continue to try to "end of pipe" to solve any problem in the agricultural sector and in the livestock sector. But Mrs Lodders must know that they are not, in the end, closed circles. If you solve it on the dung side, you haven't solved it in front. If you want to go to a truly sustainable agriculture, you will just have to make it ground-bound. Then we have all kinds of room for innovation and all kinds of room for quality. Then cows can stay in the we stand. Then we will not turn our agriculture into an industry where no one wants to get on the farm anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u133	That is an image in which I absolutely cannot recognize myself and do not want to recognize myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u134	You're gonna wrap it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u135	I'm gonna go to the last part and try to do it in two minutes at most. Finally, but not unimportant, I would like to dwell on nature. We think it is very important that there is enough nature in our surroundings, but at the same time we sometimes worry about whether we can still walk and bike near the place where we live or work. I recently spoke to a recreational entrepreneur who is worried if he can still welcome the guests and let them enjoy all the beauty that nature offers us. I understand these concerns very well, because the environmental clubs are there again. They want us to believe with ghost stories that our nature is hanging by a thread. They stir up our concerns. Also the mess of nature conservation regimes, such as National Landscapes, National Parks, Natura 2000-areas, Nature Network Netherlands and quiet areas.I heard Mrs Dik in an interruption to Mr Van Gerven just call another regime......................................................................................................................................................... We have taken a number of steps in recent years to bring nature and nature policy closer to the people. The provinces are called upon to organise nature policy close to the people. Fortunately, there is a lot of good in nature, unlike what nature organisations want us to believe. Of course there are species in our biodiversity that are in a dip, but the number of birds, butterflies and mammals increases year after year. The Ecological Monitoring Network shows an increase for all species: waterbirds plus 74%, amphibians plus 62%, butterflies plus 28%. So we can say that nature policy in the Netherlands is a success. We have beautiful nature areas to recreate and enjoy. But there is also a challenge. The VVD wants to make nature even more beautiful and accessible. One of the conditions is that nature and the natural areas built with taxpayers' money should also be accessible to everyone. After all, we all pay for it. In addition, we would like to get rid of the forest to different nature regimes. I ask the Secretary of State to go in consultation with the provinces to see if the number of regimes can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u136	First of all, excuse my voice; it is disappearing, but I'm going to try anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u137	Too much partying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u138	Too much partying? Haha!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u139	Too loud singing today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u140	Well, Mr. President! I just wanted to say something about the opening up of nature reserves. At the moment the Crown Domain at Apeldoorn is closed. Why? Because the royal family can hunt there. If nature reserves are everyone's, as Mrs Lodder says, so is the Crown Domain. Doesn't she agree with me that the Crown Domain should be opened immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u141	That is a very specific question about a very specific nature reserve. The basis of my speech is that nature reserves that we build with taxpayers' money should be accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u142	Sure. There's half a million dollars in tax dollars a year in the Royal Hunting Department alone. So I think it is very good that we also have access to the Crown Domain. That is why I ask Mrs Lodders once again whether she is not so consistent as to ensure that the Crown Domain is opened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u143	Once again, Mrs Thieme has mentioned a very specific area as an example. I will look into this and come back to it in the second term or during Mrs Thieme's contribution. Shall I finish my speech, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u144	Sure. You're out of time, but that's at the expense of your colleagues, so I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u145	No, exactly. State forestry has a separate status and falls under the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There is no direct link with visitors visiting the nature reserves of State Forest Management, let alone State Forest Management has members. The VVD believes that visitors and nature lovers should have more influence on this organisation. We would like to see State Forest Management issuing shares in name: not directly a share that involves large profits, but a share in nature and leisure activities, where involvement and investment in nature are central. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into this and perhaps start a trial in some nature reserves? I have one last question. My colleague Rudmer Heerema has previously called on the Secretary of State to decentralise animal welfare policy, especially at the Oostvaardersplassen. I would like to know what the situation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u146	Thank you. I have sent Mr Dijkgraaf before; he is now reporting to the interrupting microphone again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u147	I'm like laundry in your hands, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u148	Since when?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u149	Since today, I think. I think it is a very optimistic story, and that is how I know Mrs Lodder. A nice cookbook has been handed over and a nice story about innovation has been told. But how does this story relate to the concerns at the workplace of the primary producer, the chicken farmer, the pig farmer and the dairy farmer? Mrs. Lodders will meet him, too. What the hell is he doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u150	I have started my story by addressing the fact that we have had to make some difficult decisions in the past period. We have tried to guide the Netherlands through the crisis. That has not always been easy, but we have done it. On a number of points we have also found Mr Dijkgraaf on our side, not on a number of other points. The VVD wants to look to the future: how are we going to take that next step? I put forward a number of concrete proposals for this. I'm not someone who's gonna gloat, on the contrary. I'd like to see the odds. I would very much like to fight with the sector to ensure that there is more room and more flexibility and that entrepreneurs get more perspective when it comes to, for example, precision farming or the vitalisation plan of pig farming. It is incredibly good to see that in the sector several arm-in-arm parties are working on this. We have to support that, and we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u151	But that farmer still has very little use for this story. On the one hand, it's a trial story...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u152	May I ask Members to either listen to colleagues or talk outside? Go ahead, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u153	Thank you. It's either a trial story: that's how it turned out. Or it's a story: we want to offer space. But at the end of the day, that farmer just sees his margin drop. The share he gets from the price I pay at the butcher or the supermarket is falling. His burdens are increasing. Red diesel's gone. The VAT exemption is once again disappearing, in this budget. 15 million in innovation funds are disappearing. So the farmer says to me: do you think it's weird that 60% of the successors say what else to do? I had hoped that that perspective would come back to the VVD, with all the trouble there was in the past. I get that, too. But it's about tomorrow. Is there enough margin to actually invest in new companies? Too many companies tell me they don't see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u154	When Mr Dijkgraaf first interrupted, I said that we certainly took a number of steps, not to the full satisfaction of the VVD, because we wanted to move forward. But we come from somewhere and we stand at the bar: roll up sleeves and hands out of the sleeves to move on. Mr Dijkgraaf gives a specific example: the exemption from VAT on agriculture. It's a good thing he's asking that question. That scheme was established in the past when the VAT return was incredibly complex. In fact, it does not meet the requirements of innovative agriculture. The budget states that this arrangement will expire, by the way, only from 1 January 2018. This gives me the opportunity to put a question to the Secretary of State through Mr Dijkgraaf. It's not a austerity measure. How do we ensure that these funds return to the agro-cluster, so that we can use them to take action in the field of innovation? How do we make agriculture more sustainable and innovative? How did we get that budget back? That's a fair question. Mr Dijkgraaf knows as well as I do that in my work visits, Mr Dijkgraaf, there are not many farmers who still use the VAT system because of the innovation that we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u155	This again means a burden increase for these farmers, of 17 million. There's 15 million less for innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u156	No, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u157	Don't mix it up. Mr Dijkgraaf has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u158	The committee has said that you could do something about the VAT exemption, but then lock the money back. I don't see it being locked back. Mrs Lodders does not see that either, because she asks the Secretary of State what that is about. What do we say to those farmers who now have to decide whether to build? They also see the debate on phosphate rights coming up next week. This could lead to an increase in charges of 0.5 million per average company. It's $5,000 per cow. A farmer who has 100 cows will therefore receive 0.5 million in weight increase for the choice. This is true even though it is already faced with land-boundness, manure legislation, the disappearance of red diesel, the abolition of the VAT exemption, the disappearance of innovation funds and the increase in the number of rules. It doesn't make me very optimistic. But apparently Mrs. Lodders does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u159	Mr Dijkgraaf is not optimistic about this. Why not? Because under the line, he only looks at the things that work out negative. Now let's look at the things that have gone well. We've accomplished a number of things. We've taken steps around the NVWA. For example, we have the 150 million tender for the monosetters. We have taken a number of steps in the area of the PAS. A lot of things have gone well too. Can we move on? Yes! That is why I propose that an agri-business window be set up. I am counting on broad support for this, and I am certainly counting on the support of the SGP Group. The exemption from the VAT system does not involve a reduction notice. Mr Dijkgraaf is right to address this point. My question is how are we going to get that money back to the agrocluster? That is Article 16 in the budget. That money must remain available to the agro-industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u160	That is the question Mrs Lodders is asking the Secretary of State. This brings us to the end of Mrs Lodder's term and to Mr Geurts'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u161	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is proud of Dutch farmers, gardeners and fishermen, in the hei- and the side-form. The CDA wants agriculture to have a future in the Netherlands. This is important for our food security and because agriculture makes an important contribution to our economy. After four years of policy of this VVD-PvdA cabinet, the CDA sees the following. There is no additional effort to support the products affected by the Russian boycott, such as pears, pork and dairy. There is no help for those affected by the huge rainfall and storm in the South of the Netherlands. There are no equivalent manure measures in the arable sector. There is no general statement on research and innovation. However, the derogation is being put at risk. However, there is an increase in the rates of the Dutch Food and Waring Authority. However, the valve inspection in pig farming is maintained. However, the VAT agricultural exemption is abolished. However, the insurance tax is increased in the wide weather insurance. It is further undermined in this way. However, the budgets for sustainable investment are being reduced. However, payments remain behind due to delays at the Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland. A food agenda is nice, but wouldn't the Secretary of State first look at the mess he's threatening to leave behind? In an increasing number of farms there is no successor, says CBS. If we do nothing, 15,000 agricultural and horticultural companies will disappear in the coming years. That means pain in many farm families. From conversations in and outside the sector, I conclude that young people are discouraged from taking over the company. The cabinet is there and looks at it. The CDA believes that more attention should be paid to the future of our agriculture and our food security. For this, the CDA wants a Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food. Such a minister can fight again in the Council of Ministers for farmer, gardener and fisherman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u162	There is now a natural silence. This is an opportunity for Mr Leenders to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u163	I see you looking, Mr. Chairman. You must have thought: why not wait for Mr Leenders and let Mr Geurts come up with his story first? However, I thought that Mr Geurts had already closed a certain section. He only mentioned negative acts that the cabinet has shown. Don't forget something, I'll ask him. Have there been any positive developments in this area in the last four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u164	Well, give me a hand, Mr Leenders. I have just mentioned a range of issues. Mrs Lodder also spoke about this in the run-up to the elections, words that were not implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u165	I note that Mr Geurts is unable to mention a positive element of the policy pursued by the cabinet over the last four years. What's his cut? What has he contributed to constructive proposals in the last two years or so that I do this portfolio with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u166	I will come back to this in a moment, but I will try to point out this question in short terms. If it is correct, Mr Leenders is aware that I made the initiative paper an honest sandwich. That own-initiative paper contains a number of proposals. We are going to talk to the Chamber about this in December. I think those are very good proposals. I also hope for the support of the PvdA Group. We can go through all the amendments or motions that have been adopted. That is a whole range, fortunately, also with the support of the PvdA Group. We have also done things together about nature and volunteers. Those are positive things. But there is also a range of things that should have happened but not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u167	What kind of things are those? Name a piece or two or three. What would Mr Geurts have done or will he do if he came to power after 15 March?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u168	I just tried to report that. Look at the own-initiative paper A fair sandwich, a fair income, the food divider, which we tried to initiate together with the SP in 2012. That was not supported by the PvdA Group. That was not supported by the VVD Group. Let's get that light out. I think it would be a good idea to follow up on this after 15 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u169	I think we should leave it at that. I have a certain disappointment with Mr Geurts about the successes of the last four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u170	There are disappointments not only with Mr Geurts. When I'm on one of my many work visits or look in my e-mailbox, I see that a lot of people are disappointed in the policy of this VVD-PvdA cabinet. You can see it not only with Mr. Geurts, he is a representative of the people, but also in the country. I don't know what contribution the PvdA is about to make, but I just felt like I was in a dream world or fairytale world when I heard the contribution of the VVD group. I will continue my speech. We see that the existing arrangements for young farmers, gardeners and fishermen are insufficient. The CDA wants an investment scheme for young business successors, giving them a fair chance to start a business or continue the parental business. In addition, it is extremely important that farmers can earn a reasonable income again. That is also at the heart of my own initiative paper, which we are about to discuss, as I said earlier. Fair income. If we want to encourage farmers, gardeners and fishermen to continue, then it is necessary that they can earn an honest living. As I also outlined in my own initiative paper, the low price for the farmer is due, among other things, to the lack of market power in the chain. The working group on agricultural markets, chaired by Mr Veerman, has recently made a number of similar, or more far-reaching proposals than I have in order to strengthen the position of farmers in the chain. The Secretary of State responded in the vein of: "interesting options." A weak reaction. Does the Secretary of State not see the continuing low incomes in many sectors? The CDA wants the conclusions of the working group to become the main focus of the Netherlands for the forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy. Does the Secretary of State agree with the CDA? In addition, I would like to see at least a general declaration of binding (avvs) so that sectors themselves have the opportunity to organise themselves. First lift the product boards and then hold everything off is the motto of this cabinet. For example, greenhouse horticulture wants to jointly shape energy savings in order to go into the future more strongly. Now these and other applications remain with Economic Affairs. An avv has already been issued in the field of arable crops, but the implementation is not carried out. Is the Secretary of State prepared to work on this and deal with applications within a reasonable period of time? And should there not be an appeal against rejecting a general declaration? The Nipples Commission. I didn't like the attitude to that. The results really aren't better. If you burp in the straitjacket of Nijpels, you belong to the top of livestock farming. If you don't want to, you're gonna have to quit according to him. Here too, a very large group is thrown out of the way for convenience. How disrespectful are you? They don't even look at the farmer's income. Then what good is this advice? Then the Secretary of State's grip on the stakes in Europe. The CDA wants to see results from the Secretary of State in Brussels. The equivalent manure measures have not yet been regulated. We will discuss phosphate rights and state aid next week. What will the Secretary of State do to achieve results? Is the Secretary of State also prepared to inform the Chamber on a regular basis about progress, its commitment and actions on, for example, the Nitrates Directive action programme? The CDA sees that the budget for agriculture is under great pressure. Secretary of State, come up with more money or kill your darlings, in good Dutch: stop your hobbies. What is happening now is that the NVWA hole is not being solved and money is being taken away from the innovation for the Food Agenda. In the meantime, the agricultural exemption is abolished, without the money released being used for agriculture. That just came along in an interruption. It is clear who is on the front side of the Council of Ministers. Agriculture is the victim of this. The CDA wants at least the same budget to be maintained. The CDA Group sees the opinion of the Council of State on NVWA rates as a confirmation of what we have always said: the NVWA rates are not good. While the Secretary of State was constantly talking about cost-covering rates, it is now clear that the Council of State does not believe that this should be the case. Unfortunately, the PWC report is not looking at this. However, this report shows that the Netherlands accounts for the most in absolute amounts and that the Dutch competitive position is not taken into account in the determination. Let me translate this as follows: in the Netherlands much more is charged to business. After three years of talking about the high surveillance costs in imports and exports and the lack of service, the Secretary of State now offers to talk. In other words, the Secretary of State acknowledges the problem, but does not want to do anything about it for the time being. Last year, the CDA advocated fair and lower rates for business. When is the Secretary of State gonna do that? The CDA sees more money being released for exports, 10 million, but this is clearly not intended to strengthen support for market access for agriculture. In my view, the Minister and the Secretary of State are traveling enough, but lacks knowledge and capacity to facilitate access to our products. Is the Secretary of State prepared to argue that part of this 10 million should be used to support market access at NVWA and also to make policy and export a priority for NVWA? A round table on soil fertility was held at the initiative of the CDA. There are great opportunities for a fertile soil and for CO storage. For this reason, it is appropriate to increase the scope for soil improvers in the forthcoming Nitrates Directive Action Programme. Does the Secretary of State see these opportunities and is he prepared to create space for them? The CDA attaches a very warm heart to the volunteers in nature who maintain our landscape. We just had an interrupting debate on this with Mr Leenders of the PvdA Group. We understand that the Secretary of State is talking about this, but hasn't promised anything yet. The CDA would like the Empire to now commit itself to a transitional arrangement for structural support of volunteers in the green. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? My last cup: green education. In October, the Green Education Development Agenda was signed by the State Secretary. Almost at the same time the report Green Education on the move came out...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u171	Mr Geurts, I'm interrupting. Mr Graus would like to ask you a question on an earlier subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u172	I share what Mr Geurts says about volunteers in nature, but there must also be control and enforcement in nature. Our forest rangers of State Forestry and Natural Monuments can't handle that. How does Mr Geurts stand in that? We are talking about dumping illegal substances, such as waste from hemp plantations and drug laboratories, and garbage. But what I find even worse: animals are structurally abused in forests, dunes and fields. We once asked that those 500 animal policemen be a return to the field police. Everyone's calling for the field police. Because do you know what it is, Mr President? Those rangers are boas, extraordinary detectives. However, they do not have police criminal jurisdiction. In fact, both in Friesland and in Brabant they have already had to use arrest teams against those scumbags. So you can't send a ranger there with a jeep. I mean, there's a lot of times when a SWAT team has to go there. So my question is whether the CDA will be able to support the return of the full-time animal police and hence of the field police in the future. I also know that this doesn't go overnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u173	I tried to write with it quickly. I think I've had four questions, but I've only written down three. First of all, I will deal with the dumping of drugs, the raw material used to produce drugs and what remains of them when the drugs are manufactured. This dumping is, of course, very serious. My colleague Madeleine van Toorenburg has already drawn attention to this many times in the field of security and justice. Written questions have also been put to Security and Justice and this point has also been raised by the CDA Group in general consultations. As far as the surveillance in the outside area is concerned, I was recently on a working visit, including with boas. I live in an outlying area where I don't actually see cops. So I know it's a very big problem that the police are getting less and less into the outskirts. This subject also belongs to Security and Justice and is to a large extent dealt with in that committee, at least through the CDA Group, because we have constantly drawn attention to this in recent years. I can see Mr Graus watching; it is true that we have had one debate with the Minister of Justice on the green boas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u174	Special investigators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u175	Yeah, special detectives. We have had one debate on this in this House, as far as I can remember the last four years. There were the Minister of Justice and then Secretary of State Dijksma. After that, this debate has always been pursued in the context of security and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u176	I do not share this entirely, because this Secretary of State is the shepherd of the animals. He's about animal welfare, the welfare of the animals that live in the areas where those idiots are all out there. Furthermore, this Secretary of State is about nature and also about the green boas. Animal policemen and policemen say they often can't even handle this. They're organized gangs. This is really organized crime. If a police chief here says that even arrest teams should be sent there, Mrs Jacobi of the PvdA has witnessed that remark at a hearing, a boa is no longer a boa of this time; that also means 'extremely investigating officer', Mr President, not'special investigation officer'. I'd like a response to this. We can't abandon these people, can we? We can't just let this organized crime go. We can't abandon those animals, can we? There is massive poaching; there is also fish poaching at the expense of our fishermen. And we're not doing anything. We're standing by, and we're looking at it. There's nothing left. Now that the animal police have recently been assigned two tasks, these people have no time for this either. Hence my question as to whether the CDA is prepared to at least ensure that 182 animal policemen become fulltime policemen and that they can go back into the woods, dunes and fields.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u177	Thank you very much for the important correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u178	I got the feeling that Mr Graus addressed the CDA as a coalition partner sitting in this cabinet. That's not the CDA. He knows that in the past we have also supported some of his motions on this issue. I have to check whether we have co-signed these motions, but the key point of my reply is that the Secretary of State is not so much about those boas. That's what Security and Justice are about. I therefore believe that we should continue this debate in the area of security and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u179	Mr Graus does not think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u180	This Secretary of State is about the green boas. That's why I'm bringing this in. I've been working on this for ten years. I've been in the Chamber like the Animal Party for ten years and I know how this all works. This Secretary of State is definitely about this. Of course, we will also lay this down with the Minister of Security and Justice, but now we are sitting here with the Secretary of State, the shepherd of our sheep and other animals and also of our nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u181	We await the answer, because the Secretary of State has received Mr Graus's questions. Those questions are also supposed to go through me to the Secretary of State. So I'm directing those questions to the Secretary of State. Let's wait for the answer. If Mr Graus has proposals that the CDA Group can accept, we will support them. He knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u182	Mr Geurts continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u183	I started with green education. In October, I repeat, the Green Education Development Agenda was signed by the Secretary of State. Almost at the same time, the Green Education report came out on the move. The impact of funding inequality is so high in 2016 and 2017 that it cannot be absorbed by green education. The question is: what is the Secretary of State going to do about the financing inequality in green education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u184	I see an interruption by Mrs Lodders of the VVD, even though you have already crossed the swords. But go ahead, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u185	I've saved up my questions. With your permission, I would like to put two questions to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u186	But then each and every one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u187	Yeah, sure. I come to my first question. I have already said in Mr Geurts's interruptions that he is very gloomy. Even now, he keeps a very gloomy story. Every farmer, farmer or fisherman who listened to the story of Mr Geurts will have little inspiration from it. I would like to ask the following question: what is a Minister of Agriculture, with ideas like a sugar tax, a local market in every city and a food separator, going to do specifically for all those farmers, growers and fishermen who are waiting for an answer, especially when it comes to policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u188	I think that just that farmer, gardener or fisherman, when he listens to this debate and to my speech, feels and experiences what I am trying to send out here. It's just not good in those sectors. Mrs. Lodders knows that very well. I notice here today that the VVD is trying to solve the problems with words. But what happened to the VVD's actions in the last four years? I am very pleased that Mrs Lodder has read our election programme properly. I will not pass the points all by, but I think that, as I have just indicated, a Minister for Agriculture can fight for money for farmers, gardeners and fishermen in the Cabinet Council on Friday morning. That is not possible at the moment, because there is now a Secretary of State and he is not one of them. Mrs. Lodders talked about markets in the city. On the contrary, there is a need for greater links between urban and rural areas and between rural and urban areas. What the VVD has not achieved in recent years, we are trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u189	And what is your second question, Mrs Lodders? Your reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u190	First I give a response and then I like to come up with my second interruption. Farmers don't wait for a bag of money. Farmers would like to make the connection between town and country themselves. They want to decide where to sell their products. So I ask my question again. Mr Geurts keeps a gloomy story, but I would ask him to at least put my colleague Ziengs on the horizon. Where does he intend to go with agricultural policy? I note that Mr Geurts remains in his gloom. That is an extraordinary pity. The sector doesn't deserve that. I'll ask my second question right away. Mr Geurts also referred to the report of the Nipples Committee. In my opinion, I was one of the first to express my disagreement with the principles of this committee. I tweeted about that pretty quickly. How does Mr Geurts view the composition of this committee? Both the sector and the banks were represented. If they do agree with the objectives, what is Mr Geurts' response?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u191	Two brief questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u192	Mrs. Lodder's asking for a dot on the horizon. So she has not listened carefully to my contribution, but that gives me the opportunity to repeat a few points. The CDA does, however, want equivalent manure measures in the arable sector. We do want to reduce the NVWA rates. We tabled an amendment on this last year together with other groups. The VVD didn't support that. However, we do want to abolish valve inspection in pig farming. We want to abolish the insurance tax on broad weather insurance. We had an amendment on this last week. The VVD didn't support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u193	That's how we keep going back and forth. What is your response to the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u194	Can you give me a hand? What was the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u195	The second question was about the Nipples Committee. However, I would like to correct one thing. This concerns the insurance tax on broad weather insurance. It is quite easy to table an amendment, the bill of which is then deposited with a group of other entrepreneurs. That is why the VVD did not support that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u196	Then we are talking about the coverage of the amendment. I think the cover came from the excise duty on champagne, so it was very well put together. Or the VVD entrepreneurs have to drink so much champagne that they are affected, but that aside. Mrs Lodder asked: but there have been more parties in the Nipples Committee, haven't there? Yeah, and then I stick to my opinion, which I just outlined. That committee simply sketches: if you don't fit into our straitjacket, you don't belong to the leading group and then you get written off. A very large middle group is simply written off. I don't care who's on that committee or who's not. That committee wouldn't have had to do for me. I said what I said about the results. They are no better than the fact that the committee has been set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u197	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u198	Yeah, rounding it up. I maintain that Mr Geurts is presenting a terribly gloomy story here. He blames me for having some enthusiasm for my vision of the future. In any case, I think that we are offering more scope and perspective to farmers, gardeners and fishermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u199	Mrs Lodders apparently wants to bring out a certain framing about gloom. It's not much better right now in the farmyards, you know, I can tell her. There's a lot of questions. I do not know how many people enter Mrs Lodder's mailbox, but take the phosphate rights we are going to talk about next week. There's still an incredible amount of questions about that. There's a lot of gloom. People really don't know. That's what's keeping them awake. That is also the case at the moment in the fisheries sector around the obligation to land. Fishermen and their families are awake. They even start petitions. They say this is not feasible. For example, I can mention a number of categories, such as mink farming. People are awake about having to end their business soon. Mrs Lodders blames me for being gloomy, but it is clear that I have good reasons for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u200	That brings you to the end of your speech, and I thank you for the little bridge. We're going from gloom to a happy moment now, because that's what it's always like when someone's making their maiden speech. In this case, Mr Van der Velde is on behalf of the Labour Party's group. I suggest he be the last speaker for dinner break. Use is that he is not being interrupted. I say "use," because it is nowhere in our Rules of Procedure. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u201	Mr. Chairman. In front of you is one of the first generation children of the new country to be called The Northeast Polder. Married and four kids. I was born in Nagele, a symbol of the creative society. The village was developed during the period of reconstruction on the basis of also social democratic views on the ideal society of tomorrow. These views have inspired me for social democracy. It was a period of optimism, renewal and hope. I was the oldest of five children who grew up in a classic family in a stable environment, also characterized by the cultural dynamics of the 1970s. Involvement in society originated in me during that period. And when I started working at 18, my father took it for granted that I was a member of the union. My work, my studies, my administrative and voluntary work and the society in which I grew up have nourished my political and social interest. The same goes for my intellectual interest: I became a sociologist. The choice of social democracy and therefore of the Labour Party is self-evident to me. When I left school at the age of 18, it was these values that gave me the opportunity to develop myself and that inspired me to go into politics myself. That trip from school to sociologist brings me here now, in your room. This is in line with my ideal to ensure that our children and grandchildren experience freely what I experienced as a child in Nagele: opportunities and opportunities to expand and spread your wings, whoever you are and wherever you come from. The Netherlands of tomorrow is a society for the Labour Party with healthy, safe and sustainable food. Safe, healthy and sustainable food on our plate: isn't that what we all want? This must also be accessible and affordable for everyone. We would therefore like to see the consumer's interest become more central. We would like to see that in the end it is self-evident that there is sustainable food on every board in the Netherlands, including for the residents of Verzorgingshuis Wittesteijn in Emmeloord, for my neighborhoodmates who eat together in the neighbourhoods on Friday nights, and for the people who just shop every day. We therefore encourage the Secretary of State to realise his Food Agenda on the path he has taken. The PvdA considers it important for animal food to be produced with care for animal welfare and without burdening the environment. Consumers should be able to choose animal and environmental products more easily. The Labour Party therefore considers the means of a reliable and recognizable label to be an excellent instrument. One of the most important and successful labels is the Better Life label. This label was established at the initiative of the Animal Protection Committee. Together with Nature & Environment, she has ensured that animals in livestock farming are now better. The quality mark shows that the pork chop, the chicken leg and the egg we buy comes from a company that takes animal welfare seriously. A powerful image ultimately says more than a thousand words. What good would it be if this label could be extended to the common dairy sector and if it were not limited to animal welfare alone, but also said something about the impact of the product on the environment. For example, consumers can see whether the product is good for the animal and the environment. For example, the quality mark makes a wonderful contribution to the Sustainable Cattle Implementing Agenda. The PvdA would like the government to realize this together with the Animal Protection, Nature & Environment and the sector. The Maatlat Sustainable Cattle Farming, especially in use in Brabant, fits nicely with this development. An MDV certificate indicates that livestock stalls have been set up and set up in a sustainable manner. We ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to further support this development. We are aware that the emphasis on sustainability and health aspects also demands something from the European agricultural policy. After all, food supply in the Netherlands is intertwined with European food production. The Labour Party therefore stresses that we are not there by settling the matter properly in the Netherlands. The Labour Party asks the State Secretary to give a high priority to the EU's promised animal welfare platform. The platform will enable steps to be taken towards a European approach to improving animal welfare and health. I would therefore like to say to the Secretary of State: ensure that the European Union keeps pace. This concludes my first speech in this very respected house. I say to the young people of today and the adults of tomorrow: ideals and dreams about tomorrow give color to your actions today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u202	I'll be the first to congratulate you. I shall suspend the sitting to allow you to begin by congratulating you and then dine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u203	We shall continue with the Agriculture and Nature section of the Economic Affairs budget. I propose that we continue to do interruptions in two stages. Then you can also intervene sharply. The number of interruptions is open to you, but we do the interruptions in two stages. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Leenders. Unlike his colleague, Mr Van der Velde, he may be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u204	Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to begin by warmly congratulating colleagues from the Animal Party on their ten-year existence, but they are not here. This morning they came to our group meeting with delicious cake. We have seen that they are going to treat us again tonight, at 75 minutes' speaking time. I'm sure that's gonna be a very nice introduction. Anyway, they're not here, so I'm just gonna start. My colleague Rien van der Velde has made an excellent speech on food in particular. With this he has made it clear loud and clear that the Labour Party is in any case very satisfied with the food agenda that the Secretary of State sent us yesterday. So I'm gonna talk a little less about that. I am going to talk about the following, which, by the way, fits in a bit. Who does not want a healthy agricultural sector, which offers fair food, is good for nature and animals, which has support in society and which gives farmers the chance to earn a decent income? That is what we want, but nature, species wealth and health in the Netherlands are threatened by intensive farming and livestock farming. Read the latest figures on biodiversity in the Compentium for the Environment. Look at the results of the research on the relationship between livestock and health, carried out by RIVM among others. Hear the Planning Office for the Environment, which says that drastic interventions are needed in agriculture and livestock farming. Read the report Acceleration sustainable livestock farming of the ESC. I could go on for a while. Everything points in the same direction: it has to be different. Food production is one of the most important pillars of our economy. The Dutch agricultural sector is a global player. The Labour Party has a great deal of appreciation for the various farmers who are doing very well. As far as we are concerned, the Netherlands must remain a global player. We want a healthy agricultural sector as an economic supporter of rural areas, which contributes to solving the global food problem. We want healthy food and sustainable agriculture, which recognises the boundaries of the planet, has consumer confidence, appreciates animal welfare and has a fair distribution of services in the chain. We want a food chain with a heart for people, animals and nature. We also want an agricultural sector in which family businesses can earn a good living. It's possible. There are wonderful examples of farms that deserve a good living with respect for nature and the environment. Unfortunately, however, they are still exceptions. Farmers often want to change, but they are hampered by the economic system and the interests of large parties that force them to further increase production. Switching from common to nature including, sustainable, is not easy. We believe that we should help those farmers who want to switch and that we should reward the forerunners, as proposed by the ESC recently. The Empire must take the lead. The Planbureau also proposes this for the Environment. The Cabinet wants it, too. EZ's commitment to livestock farming is aimed at a transition to a future-proof, sustainable and socially valued livestock sector by 2020, as we have read. That is why we want a plan for this transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u205	Much of what Mr Leenders says today, I can endorse, because that sounds like music to the Animal Party. But you feel it already coming, we don't have much faith that the Labour Party is willing to go through with it, to speak in ugly The Hague jargon. Mr Leenders gives the example of nature-inclusive agriculture. In the AO Weidevogels the PvdA spoke words entirely to my heart: yes, we actually have to get rid of the usual agriculture. However, the Secretary of State said: we agree; we are going to strengthen nature-inclusive agriculture. There's a difference. Is the PvdA prepared to say today that the common agricultural policy is going to be over? That doesn't have to be tomorrow, but that's got to be the end of it. Is the PvdA willing to work towards that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u206	In fact, my last sentence was that we want a plan for the transition from common agriculture to nature-inclusive agriculture, to use that umbrella concept; you can also use the term "sustainable." So my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u207	I'm very glad to hear that. Mr Leenders has just said that the cabinet wants to do the same, but the cabinet wants to strengthen nature-inclusive agriculture. That is something other than making the fundamental choice to move away from the common agricultural policy because it will never work. We can still discuss the timetable, but that is the dot on the horizon as far as the PvdA is concerned. Fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u208	I don't think so. At least I'm reading something else. I read in this week's letter from the Secretary of State that he has the same objective as me: a transition from common to natural. We still need to talk about the timeline and the speed. In principle, Mrs Ouwehand says the same; I do not read that much differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u209	No, Mrs Ouwehand, you will not have the floor again. We'd be doing interruptions in two stages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u210	Then I'll close by saying we'll focus on a motion. That's often the best way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u211	That is quite in line with what I said. I was just going to say that the Secretary of State in the food letter we received from him this week is going to accept it. He's got huge ambitions. He wants the Netherlands to become the most sustainable food producer in the world. Tell me for yourself: it can't be any clearer, can it? But the letter is a little vague about the transition to nature-inclusive agriculture. We would like a more detailed plan of action to be taken. Does the Secretary of State see an opportunity to make a move towards such a plan for the next term of government?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u212	Mr Leenders says that the Secretary of State wants the Netherlands to be the most sustainable agricultural producer in the world, but we already are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u213	That's not what I'm thinking. I have just mentioned a number of reports, and they are not the only ones. In the past year several have appeared. I only mentioned the reports that have appeared in recent months. If you get that straight, you will see that there is something different in that regard about the current agricultural situation than Mrs Dik-Faber is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u214	That's not an answer to my question. I said they were talking about becoming the most sustainable agricultural producer in the world, but we already are, aren't we? Look at the way the production takes place in the Netherlands, at the use of plant protection products in our Dutch agriculture and horticulture, at the impact of keeping animals per unit on the living environment. Those scores are many times better than abroad. The Netherlands is the leader in the field of sustainability. When we talk about common agriculture, we are talking about sustainable agriculture, which is something that many family farms stick their necks out for every day. They do their stinking best every day to keep it running. I would very much like to hear that recognition from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u215	I have just expressed my appreciation for the agricultural sector and the many farmers, growers and farmers who are often very good at innovation. I'm impressed by that. I've seen a lot of such examples lately. I misunderstood Mrs Dik-Faber. It is right that the Netherlands is not doing so badly in this area. The Netherlands is a small country. We are with many people on a small surface, we have high productivity and are a very innovative people. What we are currently doing with agriculture in the Netherlands exceeds the capacity of our small country. At the same time, that means that things have to be different. That's how we can take the lead in the world. We can. That is why I believe that we should become the world's first exporter of agricultural products, but in terms of innovation and knowledge, because we are very smart in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u216	In the meantime, I also see Mr Geurts on the interruptive microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u217	It's always nice to listen to an interrupting debate, but I heard it differently. Mrs Dik-Faber really gave a eulogy on agriculture and horticulture and Mr Leenders immediately made it clear that agriculture and horticulture in the Netherlands are doing so badly. I don't think that was the story, but that aside. I have a question for the PvdA Group. What has the PvdA achieved in agriculture over the past four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u218	Of course, we would have expected that from Mr Geurts. I've been thinking about what we've achieved. I could tell him that I would have wanted to achieve more, but let me mention a few things. As far as animal welfare is concerned, as far as I am concerned, an intrinsic part of Dutch agriculture, my colleague Van Dekken has achieved a great deal. I call it the ban on mink breeding. Mr Geurts is not happy about that, but we are. I could give him a list of dozens of things that we have done in this area, part of agriculture, over the last four years. He'll be impressed. I call it the meadow gorge. We've adjusted the standard upwards to 80%. The fact that we're not gonna make it and that it's gonna be a little tricky is something else, but we did. I call it ground-based growth. Another example is the meadow birds. We have taken initiatives in this area. They are not enough and we will probably talk about this tonight, but as far as I am concerned, this too is an intrinsic part of Dutch agriculture. I mention the ongoing focus on developing sustainable agriculture, for example with my April motion. on knowledge building and development. The Secretary of State replied yesterday in a letter to the motion I tabled. With plant protection we have done very well in a number of areas. Then there's the antibiotic use. I can mention a few more things, but let me just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u219	I listened with attention. It also makes it clear that the VVD has not achieved so much on the agricultural dossier, but that is an observation. My next question is what the PvdA Group intends to achieve in the next three months on the agricultural dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u220	That is actually a question I have just asked the Secretary of State. In the next three months, I would like us to give the impetus to what we think is urgently needed, also for the earning capacity of farmers and for the family farms that we want to maintain. We must give an impetus to real steps in the next period of government. Of course, that depends on the outcome of the election and on whether we will have a majority in the future in order to implement the plans. As far as I am concerned, we are going to make these plans in the light of the next elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u221	If Mr Leenders is asked what he has achieved with his group, he will be the first to say that he has not only achieved this, but with his colleagues he mentions a number of things that are all on the nature and the environment. Most of them, but not all of them, I say they're heading in the right direction. But why isn't it arranged at the same time that the price goes up? Why is nature and environmental policy being carried out over the backs of farmers? The left and the right should find each other in ensuring that the farmer has sufficient margin so that he can invest enough in animal welfare and the environment as well as earn a decent living.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u222	There are two possible answers. The first answer is as follows. The Labour Party is firmly convinced that the agricultural sector and the family businesses in the Netherlands, which we all cherish, will eventually survive when they start producing in the way I have just described. That is with respect for the environment, with social support and with the ability to earn a good living. That is why I am focusing on these things, which we also had in our election programme. In that sense, I am quite satisfied with what we have achieved, even though it has not always been easy. I apparently disagree with Mr Dijkgraaf on the future prospects for Dutch agriculture. I believe that this should be sustainable if the agricultural sector is to survive in the longer term and if farmers' families want to have a decent income in five, ten, fifteen years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u223	There's no difference. I am sorry that Mr Leenders is going that way now. The difference is in the order of things. We say: make sure that the farmer earns enough money so that he can invest. Mr Leenders revolves around, in the vein of: farmer, invest and hopefully it will be all right. I come from pig farmers who have invested in more space for their animals and get a quality mark. However, they do not get the price that goes with it, because there is simply no market for it. That's the wrong order. That's the world upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u224	I totally disagree with you on that. The investments you mean are precisely those that we think are a race to the bottom: more and more meat, more potatoes, more bulk. We say: focus on quality and invest in the good things. What you mean is a very different view, a very different world view than we have with regard to the agricultural sector. I'm moving on to another question I have. Who doesn't want to live in a country where it's good to live? Well, at least we do. But a lot of people don't live so well in the country. This is demonstrated by the results of the research on livestock farming and health residents. There is a link between housing in livestock farms and a reduced lung function. That is often a great disaster for people with lung diseases. We must do something about this, as far as we are concerned, to start with the areas in the East of the Netherlands which are overloaded with too many cattle. I am talking about North Limburg, Brabant, Overijssel and Gelderland. The best measure in these areas is to reduce livestock. We want provinces to have the power to impose regional requirements on livestock farming, if they think there are grounds for doing so in relation to public health and the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u225	In the previous cabinet period, the Labour Party said away with the mega-stables. No more megasts, people get sick of it, literally. That promise has not been fulfilled. Then we got this cabinet period. Then the Labour Party said: wait, Mrs Thieme, we come up with an Animal Numbers Act. Then the municipalities and the provinces can decide for themselves whether an extension can take place. That law is endlessly trained. That law was due to come at the end of the year, but probably only next year in the spring. We all know what will happen then: there will be elections. End of exercise. Are you proud of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u226	I was actually going to say that we are pleased that the Secretary of State is working on the Bill Animal Numbers and Public Health. We are curious when this bill will finally come to the Chamber. As far as we're concerned, it's gonna be way too late, but it's gonna be there. It has to do with the legal feasibility of such laws. We sometimes run into legal limits. We also see this in the provinces, which are willing but often unable to do so. We must therefore wait for the right moment. At the moment, the Secretary of State has apparently found the right motivation in the investigation I have just mentioned to speed up the legislative proposal. I am going to ask him when that law will come and whether that law will actually do what we want, namely that we can control animal numbers in the overstretched areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u227	When this cabinet started, there was just an animal-friendly majority to put an end to the mega-stables. In fact, all the election programmes of the animal-friendly political parties stated that there should be an end to mega-stables. The Labour Party, because of the coalition with the VVD, simply did not get a message from it and asked to come up with a kind of compromise that has neither squat, taste nor glory, namely an Animal Numbers Act, of which none of us know what it is going to yield. Does the Labour Party, looking back on the past four years, not think that it has been an incredible missed opportunity not to take real steps together with the animal-friendly political parties here in the Chamber, instead of telling us here before the stage what might happen in a new period of government for animals and for the environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u228	In my opinion, Mrs Thieme of the Animal Party should sometimes realize that you need a majority for certain things in this Chamber. Even with the Labour Party there would have been no majority in this Chamber on a number of aspects. So we have chosen the smaller steps and are actually just as frustrated on a number of points as you are. So we would have liked it to be faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u229	Mr President, I have hardly interrupted. I would like to ask a small third question; then I will sit down again. Could that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u230	Then you will sit for a long time afterwards!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u231	The Labour Party itself has chosen to go with a coalition party that is diametrically opposed to the Labour Party in the field of agriculture. At the same time, nothing was laid down in the government agreement on agriculture. So you could go either way, but you chose to follow the VVD. That's inexplicable. You understand that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u232	Well, I can explain that: we just need to rule, and there are more interests than agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u233	I would like to make another point. Mr Leenders spoke about livestock farming and health. Well, there's a connection between that, isn't there? We have a dramatic connection: Q fever. The Labour Party has also said a great deal about this. She believes that something should actually be done about it, but she could now settle one thing: a compensation fund for the victims. Tens of millions went to the companies that suffered damage when companies had to be eliminated. That happened way too late, but they've been cleared. People have become seriously ill because of this. People have even died. They haven't been compensated. Is the Labour Party prepared to support the proposal to create a compensation fund for the Q-fever victims, which we are going to do again in this budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u234	No, but with a lot of pain. It is in our election programme and we are going to do our utmost to do it in the next period, but we are talking about a new situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u235	I don't understand any of that. What does this have to do with a coalition agreement? Where's this? Is there anything in the coalition agreement about these victims of intensive livestock farming? We have here a clear example of a situation in which farmers have, knowingly and knowingly, caused victims because of financial gain. The Labour Party can make an act in this regard. That has nothing to do with a coalition agreement. Then you'll just arrange something for those hundreds of victims who are now standing in the cold. If the Labour Party were involved, we might find a majority in the Chamber to stop that endless lawyering with people who have been in the cold for years. They see that on the one hand we have tens of millions of euros left to compensate farmers, but on the other hand we leave the victims in the cold. I repeat my question: why does the Labour Party feel compelled not to support that proposal when it is in favour of it? You can't explain that, can you? Isn't that the source... people are wondering how this could happen. A party finds something, but still votes against it. Mr Leenders has just said that he is in favour of the compensation fund, but still votes against. Can't explain that to society, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u236	I would like to give the same answer as before: it is in our electoral programme, it is an important point in our view, and we are going to try to achieve it in the next government period. I am not answering any other question than at first, because I have no other answer. I had just asked a question about animal numbers and public health. We have another question for the Secretary of State. We want municipalities to be able to take effective action against farmers and other entrepreneurs who violate notorious environmental laws. We are asked by municipalities whether we want to make it legally possible to impose an administrative fine on infringements. It's called a lick-on-piece approach. It does not seem to be possible in the Wabo (Law on General Environmental Law). You can do it in the hospitality and in the day care. It appears to be extremely effective there. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate whether this can be regulated by law for municipalities? Can he let us know in the short term if this is possible, perhaps already Thursday? Who doesn't want a green living and living environment for their children and grandchildren? We do. We want to reconnect man with nature. Nature close, in the immediate living environment. Because life with green and water promotes health, safety and well-being of humans, plants and animals. And everyone has a right to that. A liveable green and water-rich environment goes hand in hand with climate challenges, which lie ahead of us. It is a necessary investment in our future. An active and stimulating government fits in with this. With these words, Mr Lutz Jacobi and I presented our Green and Water Paper in the city on 1 July, a plea for greening people's living environment. After a year of working visits, discussions and consultations, we have indicated in twelve action points what we believe should be done to achieve this greening. I have the note with me and ask the messenger to hand it out to the Secretary of State and to the honourable colleagues in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u237	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u238	Oh, that's beautiful. There is an amendment from my hand to achieve precisely that greening. Will the PvdA support me in this, so that in the cities is not only stone, but also green?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u239	Mrs Koşer Kaya surprises me a little, because I do not know which amendment is involved. It could be, but I'll have to take a good look at it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u240	I will gladly give it to Mr Leenders later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u241	You can do that bilaterally later. Mr Leenders continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u242	How are we going to translate these action points? We wanted to hold a note-taking meeting on this, but then we realized that time was short and that we probably wouldn't achieve that much more. Then we looked at what budgets these twelve action points could land in. In the budget of Wonen and Rijksdienst, colleague Albert de Vries asked for a study on green roofs and facades, two of the action points. In the budget for Infrastructure and the Environment, Mr Cegerek asked for the inclusion of more green in the neighbourhoods in the National Air Quality Cooperation Programme in relation to the beneficial effects of green in the neighbourhoods for air quality. At WHO Water, Mr Lutz Jacobi asked for fiscal and financial incentives and information for citizens. And in the budget of Agriculture and Nature, we would like to take a step further. The note is in line with the implementation programme of nature vision, nature in the middle of society. We share the government's view that you should be careful with actions from the Empire, because you can also get in the way of good developments. But you can stimulate. That is what we want to ask the Secretary of State for this budget. Beautiful things happen in society. Bring that knowledge together and share it. In February there is again a natural summit, together with the provinces. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give the fine examples from society, including from our memo and also from his own latest progress report, space in a separate programme at the Nature Summit, involving green education and training for urban developers, planners and water managers? That brings me to the Floriade in Almere in 2022. This seventh edition of the World Garden Exhibition focuses on growing green cities and deals with urgent issues related to urbanisation, food supply, climate change and energy production. We understand that EZ is making a financial contribution to this. However, it is unclear when and how much. Almere has no investment security for that. Can the Secretary of State state state his position on this? Can he give the municipality of Almere some clarity, so she knows where she is and can make a plan of action? I still have a few points to do with the decentralisation of nature policy to provinces, which sometimes causes some problems. I refer to the work of nature volunteers; Mr Geurts has just mentioned it. They are important to nature, but their work is under pressure. In the 2016 budget, Mr Geurts and I have tabled a motion in which we have asked the government to agree with the provinces and nature organisations on the continuity of nature volunteering work and to reflect its possible financial consequences. We are told that the discussions on this matter are still ongoing, but that there is no money for concrete measures. It cannot be that we leave hundreds of thousands of natural volunteers in the cold because provinces do not take responsibility. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of Mr Geurts's and me's note? Is there a view of the financial consequences? How can funding take place? What impression does the Secretary of State have of the consultations on this matter? Is he prepared to ensure that agreements are made in the short term? I am thinking of a period of about three months. We are also concerned about the structural financing of the sheep herd. That is a joint responsibility of the Empire and provinces, but it is not progressing very well. We are concerned with the preservation of special varieties, cultural heritage, biodiversity and the knowledge we have gained from it. Can the Secretary of State say what the current situation of the sheep herd is? Is he willing to solve the financing problem quickly? And here too, I think: could this not be adequately arranged within a period of three months? State forest management plans to sell land on the Wadden Islands. On Vlieland, long ago, long-standing contracts were concluded with three umbrella foundations. They don't want to buy, they want to renew the lease. This is in the interest of many people who bought a holiday home a long time ago and do not have the money to buy the land now. Now the National Real Estate Company outside the three foundations wants to allow capital-intensive baseers to buy the land. This undermines the negotiating position of the three foundations. My group considers this to be a very undesirable situation. What will the Secretary of State do to prevent these property owners, who often don't have too much money, from getting into trouble? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u243	I am still a little concerned about the end of the interruption in which Mr Leenders admitted that the PvdA Group is bowing to the VVD at the compensation fund for victims of the Q-fever drama. But I would like to touch on another point, namely the sustainable development of livestock farming. Mr Leenders has also said many words about this. In the last few days and weeks we have achieved very dramatic figures. Within five years, 5 000 farms in dairy farming are expected to stop. What is the response of the Labour Party to this development? When farmers stop, bigger farmers take over the farm. This is how the scale increase in high-speed rail transport continues. This poses a direct threat to the sustainable development of our rural areas and livestock farming. What's the PvdA's answer to that? What will the Labour Party do about it? What does the PvdA propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u244	That answer is twofold. On the one hand, the answer comes down to what I have actually said. As far as we are concerned, the common agricultural policy is going in the wrong direction, including what Mr Van Gerven is now putting forward. This common agriculture must develop into an industry which is in balance with the environment, which has social support and in which a good living can be earned. On the other hand, the answer is that agriculture must also ask itself whether it is doing the right thing and perhaps whether new income models are possible, with other products. The Secretary of State has mentioned a number of things in his Food Agenda that make it possible for farmers to develop business variants. This will allow companies to develop in a different way, not more production, but more quality, more quality products that are distinctive on the market. I feel that the sector can survive; I fully agree with the Secretary of State. I believe that this will enable the family farms to survive, which we both cherish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u245	That is not really an answer to my question and not a start of a solution. Mr Leenders leaves it to the market. If we let the market go ahead, the scale increase will continue at an enormous pace. The figures show that one third of dairy farms will be pumped within five years. Those are the hard numbers. The figures also show that the farmers who want to stop, the 55-plussers, have no successors. Then the argument is justified that we should not leave it to the market, but that the government should take action and make proposals on the following questions? a. How can we ensure that there are young farmers who can take over farms? b. How can we, as a government, stop this scaling-up? Then I return to the Labour Party as one of the captains on the ship at the moment. What are the proposals of the Labour Party to regulate that market in such a way that the trend of economies of scale is broken, that we do not transfer the Rubicon to those dairy farms and that we do not go in the same direction as the pig farms and the poultry sector, which are completely derailed? What does the Labour Party intend to do about concrete proposals to block this, other than expressing the wish that it should be sustainable? Because when you say a wish, you just don't get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u246	I've said a lot more than that. I was afraid for a moment that Mr Van Gerven would move in the direction of buying up all the farms, developing state farms and taking all the farmers into state service. I don't know if he'd want to go that far. In any case, that is very far from what we would like. I am sticking to my two answers, and we need to start with them very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u247	Mr President, I have two interruptions on two different subjects. That was because Mr Leender's story had ended a little faster than I thought. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u248	If you could just ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u249	First of all, I would like to ask Mr Leenders the following question. We jointly tabled a motion on 25 June 2015 which is now a year and a half ago (33348, no. 130) in which the government was invited "to enter into consultations with the provinces with the aim of bringing forward country-covering proposals for the 2016 budget treatment aimed at the conservation and recovery of grazing bird populations'. We finally received a letter from the Secretary of State in September, October of this year. Does Mr Leenders agree with me that this letter does not contain a plan of action and that the motion of both of us has therefore not been carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u250	Last week we had a very nice debate on this in a general discussion, thanks to the initiative paper by Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks. I think I was very clear at the time. There I have said, I would like to repeat that the content of the State Secretary's reply to the motion was impressive. In other words, we believe that the measures he proposes are working well, but we do not have a plan. We are missing what actions are being taken exactly within what time, who is responsible for them and what their financial consequences are. That's what I said. I also asked if the Secretary of State is prepared to work that out in the very short term. So yes and no, I am very satisfied with the content of the actions. I believe that, but they still need to be put into a good plan that we can control, because the problem of meadow birds is so serious that Mr Grashoff will agree with me that I would like to be able to control it as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u251	I would like to thank Mr Leenders for his reply. That gives good hope for a renewed motion from both of us. Let's see if we can do that. I have a very different question about phosphate rights and the issue that we are going to discuss in detail next week, but this is now the budget debate. I saw on Twitter that Mr Leender's commitment is to spare land-based businesses. Does he agree with me that in the very recent letter dated 18 November, which deals with the reduction of phosphate surplus in the course of 2017, land-based companies are in no way spared and that, therefore, the policy commitment of the Secretary of State is still far from Mr Leender's own wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u252	I do not know exactly what letter Mr Grashoff is referring to. I said in that tweet that our commitment to this debate will be that we will spare as much as possible land-based farmers. The law already says they're being spared. We will look for the maximum limit in that. I tweeted that. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u253	The Secretary of State does not intend to introduce that law until 1-1-2018. Before that law enters into force, it has agreed with the sector a voluntary plan for the reduction of phosphate. That plan does not in any way mention the relief of land-based farms. So before Mr Leenders is brought to justice, his statement has already been completely rejected. Does Mr Leenders agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u254	No, I don't agree with you. I think we're dealing with this in the law. The package of measures is intended to come under the national phosphate ceiling as of 1 January 2018. In the law, we are going to regulate how we deal with the so-called generic discount. That's what I'm talking about. I would like to see farmers who have not contributed to the overrun of the national phosphate ceiling to be kept as safe as possible. And we'll settle that in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u255	Mr Leenders should take a good look at what will happen in 2017, because it will be charged to you in the outside world, and also to me: the damage has already occurred for land-based companies before the law enters into force. That's what you share responsibility for, unless we do something about it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u256	That is what we are going to debate next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u257	I too have read the PvdA Group's wishes on Twitter. There is an amendment by the Christian Union and D66 to leave the land-based dairy farming out of sight. Will the Labour Party support that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u258	I'm gonna go study it again. Our intention in this area is very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u259	I'm gonna have to deal with that for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u260	Yeah, it is for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u261	I sincerely hope for support, also in view of the remarks made on Twitter. A man a man, a word a word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u262	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u263	I call Mr Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u264	Mr. Chairman. We were not allowed to use abbreviations from the previous chairman, so for the people at home: "PVV" stands for "Party for Freedom." First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Velde of the PvdA on his maiden speech. I am also doing this on behalf of those colleagues who spoke before Mr Van der Velde, because of course they have not been able to congratulate him. I would also like to congratulate the Party for Animals. We started together once. Esther Old Hand I always call loving "cat head" and Marianne Thieme "animal pussy." I am currently being dealt with on Twitter, all over the media, but I would like to say here that I do not mean that derogatory, because I like it with both ladies. We always fight together for the animals in need. I have a soft spot for both. A very good friend has reminded me that I shouldn't say that anymore. This girlfriend is one of the few people I've always assumed a lot of. That's why I'm putting that right here. So I apologize if that was misunderstood. But I keep calling them the pet kittens, if you don't mind. Once, in 1986, at the police school in Heerlen, I suggested that there should be an animal police and an emergency number for animals, 113 or 114, which subsequently turned 144. I have also always advocated prison sentences for animal executioners and a life-long restraining ban on animal executioners. Also, I've always argued for some kind of CSI, Crime Scene Investigation, for investigation at the crime scene. Last week, the Veterinary Forensic team, VFt, was presented to the States General. I've put forward motions for that before. Of course, I have been in contact with these people for a long time, also in cooperation with the animal police, namely with Dr. Frank van de Goot and the first veterinary forensic doctor, Monique Verkerk. That was a great success. Even Mr. Heerema was completely silent; rarely seen. He's been listening breathless. Last year I tabled an amendment for that Veterinary Forensic team, which was rejected. I may want that amendment to go around again tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but it may also be that the Secretary of State wants to think along with his people, because there is a cheaper solution. In that amendment, I had reserved €871,000 for that Veterinary Forensic team. If that team is placed as a veterinary part of the NFI, it is 50% NFI and the rest of the VU could cost hundreds of thousands of euros less. That must sound like music to the MPs. Then we can still detect animal executioners and thus also prevent a lot of human suffering. I do it for the animals, but often these people commit crimes against people as well. If you don't do this for the animals and if you don't have the animal heart I have, do this for the bycatch and for the people. In addition, we can increase the penalty rate. I would like to give an example of this. When people see a dog being thrown into the water with a bench, they are heard as witnesses, but the man says that that dog was already dead, that he was afraid he had to pay for an expensive cremation and that he had therefore dropped the dog in a cage and already in the water. If such a dog is fished up and goes past such a team, it appears after veterinary forensics that that dog was still alive when it hit the water in his bench. Then it'll be a whole different story, even in terms of punishment. The first, too, is miserable behavior; that's not the point, because as far as I'm concerned, he should get jail time for that, but the more evidence you have, the quicker you can track someone down. That team also explained how it found out about viruses in rats. The RIVM, which receives millions, millions, millions of support from the government, did not find out, but the Veterinary Forensic team, consisting of people who still work in their own spare time and with their own resources, found out. Besides, that virus is contagious to humans. I can go on like this for a very long time, but unfortunately I have to pay attention to my speaking time. So I'm gonna have to check it out. The team can also demonstrate the link between animal abuse, domestic violence, sexual crimes, various other criminal activities and often animal-related crime. That is why we should do this. This is the government's job. It's the government's. I don't have to beg for that for ten years. That's really crazy. I'll make a few jumps. As far as the investigation at the crime scene is concerned, I want a crime scene around a dead animal or cadaver no longer to be trampled, with all good intentions. Now there are people from Rijkswaterstaat or people from an animal ambulance, who have absolutely no police experience, and they trample everything around a cadaver. If dead animals are found, then the Veterinary Forensic team and/or the animal police must first come to the scene to secure the crime scene and tracks and take photos. Then the chance of getting caught will be greatly increased. Again, that has been explained to the MPs. So let's just do it together. Then we can get more assholes out of society and save society a lot of misery. The Secretary of State, together with the Minister of Justice, has already promised that carcasses and circumcised and abused horses will all have to pass the Veterinary Forensic team. Since the full-time animal police were killed by a D66 motion, supported by the Chamber, except for the Party for Animals, the animal police no longer keep track of the high number of reports of animal cruelty. Everyone has their mouths full that we need to do more to control animal suffering, but you cannot do this with 180 or 182 people; that is going to be a maximum of 186. These are task holders with often four task accents. Those people aren't gonna keep track of that anymore, and they're gonna get stressed out. There'll be a lot of destruction in it. We shouldn't want that. So: Secretary of State, urge your colleague that they be promised to me by the Minister 186 persons fulltime, so only full-time animal police. Second best is to give them one task accent, so not four task accents, because those people don't make it. If the Secretary of State comes once... you don't want to know what you see. It's dull shit. That's gonna kill you. You can't sleep with that anymore. Anyone who goes with the animal police once is awake for three nights. Those people have a lot to deal with. They need support, including our support, to do so. I would like to have examined whether it is true that the Member, the National Inspection Service for Animal Protection, is delaying and taking over dozens of percentage points of animal law cases dealt with by the animal police digitally, putting them in the we-form and thus unduly subsidising them. It can't be. The good people sitting there, there are a lot of good MEPs who need to be put back in the police; there are also a few posted. The rest have to go to NVWA and then it's end of practice. I think that is a very good proposal. I think the Secretary of State should think about that. There is an approved Graus motion for a better income model for our farmers, growers and fishermen at the expense of retail. The retail people are laughing their asses off right now, so that's where it has to come from. It should not come from consumers and farmers, but from retailers. How's that going? I will retable a motion rejected in 2013 to put the interests of farmers above that of the European Union. But perhaps the Secretary of State would like to make a commitment to this. Then I don't have to take that motion again. In the Graus c.s. motion (29664, No. 145), which has been adopted, I have called for the identification of all EU agricultural and fisheries obligations which are not properly implemented. Farmers and fishermen suffer only from Brussels interference, and they are also the largest net contributor per head of the population. It can't be. In practice, our fishermen are imposed on non-executable items, such as landing duty, which does not work at all in practice. It's unworkable. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I would like to get a plan of action, a feedback on the implementation of these motions. How are the nooses gonna disappear around the neck? I'd really like to get a reaction to that. I'm getting to the barn fire prevention plan. A motion on this matter was adopted a long time ago. Two inventors came forward. They offered the "Stable Safe" system in the Chamber. We introduced this to the State General in response to the PVV's stable fire prevention plan. The national fire department is enthusiastic and the insurance companies want to give a discount, but they demand a field test set-up. For the people at home: with the "Stable Safe" system, animals can escape when a stable is on fire. It works very simply on the feed silos' oppressive system. It's super simple. But all the insurance companies, the fire department and everyone else, I think LTO is also in favour of saying: go work with a field test. That is also a task of the government. The government should just facilitate something like that. I don't have the people and the money for it, and that's why I'd like a response. I understand 168 animals have been killed in barn fires this year alone. Repeat, 168 animals. Imagine if they were all charred in front of you. I think that would be very traumatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u265	Of the speaking time you have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We want to tackle dog fights, illegal breeders and other animal-related crime. That is why I would like to offer the Secretary of State an investigation, which has been carried out by Mrs Anouk Duijnker. In daily life, watch what I say; this closely listens to her being tactical coordinator animal welfare of the animal police unit North Holland, but she carried out the research as a student at the School of Higher Police Administration. Furthermore, this investigation does not concern police policy. Let it be recorded very clearly: it is not a police policy and she carried out that research as a student. That research is called: "The dog: status symbol or bitcoin. An investigation into the role of dogs in the undermining crime." I'd like to offer that to the Secretary of State. My colleagues have already received it all digitally. I would like to hand it over to the messenger and then it is part of the debate. Please make sure, so I ask the Secretary of State, that it ends up with all the people on your team who need this information, such as the entire veterinary team, the NVWA and you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u267	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u268	Finally, I have another point concerning animal welfare. For this purpose, there is the National Trademark Animal Ambulances (NKD). I do not think that animals should be given that label if they do not respect the national emergency number, which has been supported by the entire Chamber. So, please: if you get such a certificate, just put on the bus '44 Save an animal' and not some regional number that people can't remember. 'Cause I'm sick of that last one. Something really needs to be done about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I don't talk to you again, have a good night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u269	But I still see Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u270	I would like to return to the block 'Forensic' in Mr Graus's contribution. I also attended the technical briefing and saw the footage. Then I've been thinking, where could you possibly do that? Now in the Netherlands there is the Dutch Forensic Institute, where this is happening. I hear Mr Graus wants to organise all kinds of other plans, but we already have an institution where this is happening. Could Mr Graus explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u271	I am very grateful that Mr Geurts is asking this question, because I was through my time and could not explain it properly. So I'm very grateful to him, and I'm going to give him a stuffed cake. In my speech I have just mentioned that the Dutch Forensic Institute has almost never done anything about animal suffering. They have done it, but after the disaster with the MH17, many MPs find that understandable. Nada, zero. Now it is all the more necessary that Dr. Frank van de Goot, together with a veterinarian and a veterinary forensic team, form a separate branch: veterinary forensics. The man who used to work at the NFI is really an authority in this area. This does not even require that €871,000, but less. I'd like to talk to the Secretary of State's officials about how we can do all that, along with the VU and the NFI. I have opportunities for that, but I don't have time for this right now. Then we can get a lot of assholes out of society for a few hundred thousand euros. If you see what millions and billions are being thrown away here, I think it's worth doing something about tracking down assholes when it comes to animals and people in need. That must be a priority for us: safety for humans and animals. I also believe that there should even be training for veterinary forensic doctors within the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. I've asked for that before. Because we only have one who's trained in America. If it hits a tree, it's over. Then we've got nothing. Think about it. We have to be careful of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u272	About that stuffed cake: I had cake this morning from the Party for the Animals and I'm still full of it. It was pretty sweet, I must say. Thank you to the Animal Party on behalf of the CDA Group. The NFI is part of Security and Justice. It belongs to the Minister of Security and Justice. Is it not wise to argue with Security and Justice as well? That ministry is about the NFI.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u273	That's a good question. Mr Geurts is well on his way: two stuffed cakes. But we should not want this, because there must also be a certain independence of justice. The best man on my left is the keeper of the animals. This Secretary of State is about animal welfare. I think it should be independent. It is a good thing that EZ facilitates it in part and that it comes partly under the VU or partly under the Dutch Forensic Institute. Together, fifty-fifty. The Secretary of State may be able to say that at least he's going to see how we can accommodate this. Then I'm happy, too. I may not have to share the amendment, but otherwise I'm just going to distribute it and then I wonder how the Chamber will decide on it. However, we must do something about this. This can't be happening. After last week's presentation in front of Mr Geurts, can we not look away as members of the States General? We can't do that, really, believe me. We could have prevented murders if this had been done ten years earlier. I think that's a sad thing. Every human life and every animal life is one too many.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u274	Thank you to Mr Graus for the congratulations to us. My question concerns Mrs Duijnker's research, which he has just offered to the Secretary of State. We were indeed at the presentation of that study. Shocking discoveries have been made, especially about the role animals can play in organising crime. Dogs are used as guards of coke houses. Those dogs are seen as utensils. If you've got a good animal police and a good BOLO, you can take care of those coke dealers. Would it not therefore be wise to ask the Secretary of State to look closely at that report together with the Minister for Security and Justice and to respond to it? I believe that this offers many opportunities for the use of animal police and for follow-up research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u275	I would like to put the entire request of Mr Ouwehand to the Secretary of State at once. I understand that the Minister of Security and Justice is already somewhat aware of this, but I think it is good that they are putting the heads together, especially since both of them were already enthusiastic about this story before it all came out. Then they thought something had to happen, but they didn't know how or what. Something must be done now and I am very grateful for that question, because I had no time for it anymore. So Mrs. Ouwehand also gets a stuffed cake from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u276	I thank you for that, but thank you for passing the question on to the Secretary of State. I really think that we can tackle gross animal abuse and serious crime in one go with a follow-up to this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u277	I agree with that one hundred percent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u278	Is the PVV also in favour of finally putting an end to the huge Q-fever drama that has taken place in the South of the Netherlands in recent years? We have compensated companies that have suffered damage by tens of millions, but we have left the victims in the cold. Will the PVV support a proposal from me to set up a compensation fund for the victims of the Q-fever drama?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u279	I believe that both Reinette Klever, Health spokesperson, and I have supported a number of times in this direction. But of course I do not know what Mr Van Gerven is going to do and what financial cover is needed. So I am afraid to say anything about that at the moment. Of course, we are always sympathetic to support for victims, especially such a terrible disease. I just don't know what Mr Van Gerven's gonna come up with, so I can't sign a blank cheque right now. Besides, I'm not the PVV. I'm just a clog farmer from Heerlen from the fraction of the PVV. I'm not the PVV. Mr Van Gerven must first come up with something concrete that I can put to the group. That is what we are doing. That is a political decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u280	I assume the PVV is speaking with one mouth. I see Mr Graus speaking on behalf of the PVV. I'm gonna remind the toy coalition. Then the PVV was not so sympathetic towards a compensation fund to compensate the victims of the Q-fever drama. I understand that Mr Graus is now in favour of this. On the one hand, if farmers are to be compensated for the damage that has been caused, on the other hand, you must have an eye for the human victims. They are entitled to a decent compensation. I understand that the PVV, at least Mr Graus, is in favour of this. Can I interpret that like that? Then he can see in second term what I come with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u281	That's how it goes. In that order, Mr Van Gerven must see it. I do not think that any member of the 150 Members of Parliament, and I know a lot of them personally, is against doing something for victims. I cannot imagine that at all, even within my group. But often there are wordings in a motion that are not right or proper. For that reason alone, we often cannot support a motion. There is often a lot of discussion about it. I would like to hear from Mr Van Gerven how he is going to do this. Give me that motion and I will defend it in the group if it is as sympathetic as he says. I can't just sign blank cheques on behalf of 11 people. It just doesn't work that way. It doesn't work that way with the SP either. That's how it's done. I'm getting a note from the messenger that I said there were 168 dead animals in the stables this year, but that must be 168 000. I also think that's what I said. I think someone had a stuffed cake in their ears and didn't hear that right. This has been corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u282	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands wants to be the most sustainable food producer in the world. In part, we succeed in that. Our agricultural sector is extremely efficient and we are developing many new products. But the pressure on the environment and our nature is great. Nature and water quality targets cannot be met as long as ammonia emissions, surface water pollution and the amount of plant protection products remain as high as they are today, says the Planning Office for the Environment. The government agrees with that. How sustainable is the future of our farmers? The dairy farmers are threatening to send their boots to the Secretary of State. 15,000 companies are in danger of disappearing in the next ten years due to a lack of successors. Few people want to be farmers. In the pig sector, too, there is a good cause for concern, because the low price of pigs is a major source of reserves. All in all, it's acting like a sad picture. This raises the question of what the government has really changed over the past four years. Do farmers and nature organisations see a substantial difference if they compare the Netherlands in 2012 and the Netherlands in 2017? Are farmers and nature better? This coalition of VVD and PvdA has mainly achieved a standstill. EU subsidies are still not linked to sustainability and innovation, and I hope that they will at least be implemented in the coming period. Next week we are going to talk longer about phosphate rights, but I want answers to the following questions before that debate. As a professional, the Secretary of State seems to have acted extremely awkwardly. There doesn't seem to be any control over the process. The plan has been sent to the Chamber far too late, without the EU's green light. What was the strategy of the Secretary of State in Brussels? Why has he not created goodwill in the EU Commission? Who did he talk to? How many times has he been to the Agriculture and Fisheries Council himself? Does the Commission still have confidence in the Netherlands? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that we can maintain the derogation? In any case, let me say that we want land-based farmers to be totally spared from the generic discount. To this end, D66 and the Christian Union have tabled an amendment. I come to the Dutch Food and Service Authority. Speaking of confidence, is food safety still in good hands? Last June, we had a strong debate on this, because the reorganisation of NVWA failed and the ICT renewal was delayed. In short, the NVWA had large deficits and could no longer carry out all the tasks. I asked for the Court of Auditors' curatel and gave the time until the budget was discussed to put things in order. I now read in the progress report that the set-up of programme control is not yet complete. How's that? What improvements have actually been made? In the meantime, is the NVWA financially sound or will there turn out to be a deficit again on 1 January 2017? In the meantime, can all the monitoring tasks be carried out again? I was told today by the Open State Foundation that the NVWA does not comply with the law on open data. Is this right? I refer the Secretary of State to the website of the Open State Foundation, on which he can obtain the necessary information. At least I want to know if this is right. On World Food Day I was in Rotterdam. That was where the exotic and incomprehensible labels were discussed. The harvest was big. This shows the need for a stop-lamp system on food. The Koşer Kaya/De Love motion (34300-XIII, no. 168) put this on the agenda. Is there gonna be a color coding, a double traffic light system? The plans to replace and cut the check mark in the number of labels do help, but are not enough. The consumer should be informed transparently. On World Food Day I also launched an action plan: Know what you eat. I'll hand it over to the Secretary of State later. My colleagues can also get a copy. In any case, I would like a comprehensive response from the Secretary of State to this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u283	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u284	One point in this plan is part of the reality since yesterday: with the Albert Heijn customers can see on their phone the origin of the pork. Great, but I hope the rest will follow now. Another point is the story of damage after eating sickening food. Hardly anyone's gonna start a lawsuit for that. It seems that people expect that they won't win, because just prove that you've gotten sick of that salmonella salmon. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate this? If someone has become ill and there is a suspicion that this is due to sickening food, can that person quickly ask for compensation and get compensation? I go into nature in the cities. Yesterday, D66s planted flower bulbs in several places in the country; so did I. The Delft railway zone will be more flowery next spring. Cities should be greening. Otherwise, in densely built areas, heavy precipitation prevents enough water from being stored and disposed of. Also helps more green in the street to preserve butterflies and bees. That's how you increase biodiversity. Many municipalities therefore already allow facade gardens. However, we must do more: tiles from the garden, grass or plants in it; we must also break the grey mass with greenery on industrial sites and squares. To contribute to this, I have tabled an amendment which I would like to make available EUR 5 million to municipalities for this purpose. Does the Secretary of State also believe that this can give a good boost to greening policy? Finally, I come to the dunes. There's a Coast Pact. After a lot of pushing, the Minister's plans to allow construction on the coast have been stopped. However, the Coast Pact has not yet been sent to the Chamber. When will the Chamber receive the Coast Pact? At least I have one question about that. I understand that we have to respect existing plans, but there have also been applications that have not yet been authorised. I assume there's a stand still right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u285	I heard Mrs Koşer Kaya earlier in her speech almost disliked talking about the NVWA. She asked if this organization is financially sound. She asked a lot of questions. Why didn't Mrs Koşer Kaya give her home when I proposed that the NVWA be regarded as a major project, so that the Chamber would be informed much more accurately and much more quickly about this organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u286	Mrs Lodders and I have had this debate before. At that time, I indicated that we have carried out this type of large-scale project studies and that they actually produced quite little. In particular, I think it is important that you look at whether things are going well financially, but also whether the money you reserve is being used properly. We have a body for that that can do very well: the General Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u287	We have indeed exchanged this before, so I will not go on for too long. It's like there's a lot of questions here. Mrs Koşer Kaya could have done something about it. The Court of Auditors gives a one-off picture. I would also like to say that Mrs Koşer Kaya should ask her colleague Van Veldhoven about the major projects. Mrs Van Veldhoven has been rapporteur for a major project. We got a lot of interesting information out of that. It is extremely unfortunate that Mrs Koşer Kaya is being graced here. She should have cared at home when it came to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u288	By the way, I was not the only one who did not support it. Wide in the Chamber there was no support for it. That is not the point, however. The point is that there is a major financial issue here. Who is better equipped for this than the General Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u289	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Koşer Kaya very much for planting flower bulbs in the Delft railway area. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u290	Yeah, I cleaned my nails.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u291	I can tell, perhaps to reassure Mrs Koşer Kaya, that this plan will bring about a massive structural increase in water storage and greenery in the city. So that's gonna be okay. I would also like to thank Mrs Koşer Kaya for the fact that she wants to plant Grashoff plants. That's what she said, Grashoff plants. I really liked that. I wonder what kind of plants they are. She really said it, Mr. Chairman. My question is actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u292	I was going to ask you if you had a question after these beautiful plant stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u293	I would like to name it after you, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u294	You said it! No, I have to talk through the chairman. D66 submitted a counter-budget for 2017. I noticed that I did not see any euros for nature. Was that a mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u295	My colleague Van Veldhoven, together with the PvdA, has made possible a lot of money for nature, but of course we are not there yet. The fact that we are now also releasing money for greening urban areas also says a lot, and not for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u296	Maybe it's just a mistake, but in D66's counter-budget, no money is reserved for nature. Well, I guess I'm just gonna assume that that was a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u297	I have just replied, Mr President, but Mr Grashoff does not seem to like that. I don't have much to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u298	The messenger is quick to share Mrs Koşer Kaya's action plan. I call Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u299	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union wants a revaluation of our food. Healthy and sufficient food is not self-evident. Dutch farmers and gardeners are at the forefront of innovation and sustainability worldwide. The agri-food sector is one of our country's most important economic sectors. However, the agricultural sector is struggling. Look at the uncertain situation for family farms in dairy farming, where maintaining the derogation is at stake. They feel like they're cheating. Look at the young farmers, who see great challenges coming after the succession. A quarter of all farmers don't even have a farm successor. Look at the downward pressure on market prices. Farmers work hard every day for our daily food, but get in trouble because they don't get a fair price for their products. That is impossible for the Christian Union. Does this Secretary of State stand for these hard-working farmers? What perspective does he offer the agricultural sector? Is he fighting to maintain the derogation? Is he making himself tough for a stronger position of farmers and gardeners in the production chain? A look into the future. The Christian Union is keen to see a minister of food coming into the next cabinet, standing up for the agro-industry and also for matters such as food safety and food quality. We also see a consumer who is more critical than ever. That also offers opportunities. The Christian Union is convinced that a better link between farmer and citizen and European regionalisation of food production will lead to a re-evaluation of our food and better consumer understanding. A good initiative to bring farmers and citizens closer together is the recently concluded covenant of international corporate social responsibility on the farmyard, signed among others by LTO, civil society organisations, Minister Ploumen and State Secretary Van Dam. How will the Secretary of State actively support this covenant? I have some questions. Is this covenant linked to other agreements, for example in the pig sector? How does the Secretary of State intend to strengthen primary producers in the chain? Does he want to consider a ban on sales below cost? How is the farmer to be at the heart of social food policy, as in addition to the top sectors there is also a need for regional research embedding? How can we respond to developments such as true cost, true pricing and CO storage in the soil in Germany and France? They use European money to finance projects on the farm. Isn't that something we can do in the Netherlands? Can citizens' participation budgets be linked to public co-financing? Multifunctional agriculture is growing. The Christian Union sees opportunities in the combination of food production and the delivery of social products such as care, education and childcare. I have tabled an amendment to support the sector in research into expanding multifunctional agriculture, focusing on new earning models and the role of food production in the regional economy. I look forward to the support of this Chamber and to warm words from the Secretary of State. The Christian Union has also tabled an amendment for €1 million for public-private cooperation between agricultural and horticultural companies, government and science, aimed at small-scale innovative projects in agriculture and horticulture under the climate agreement, such as energy saving, emission reduction and new clean energy technologies. I hope for the support of the Chamber and the Secretary of State for this too. In the context of innovation, I ask the Secretary of State for the shift of EUR 15 million to the food agenda. Fine, but this money will be taken away from sustainable livestock farming and plant production. Why does the Secretary of State remove this 15 million from these important innovation grants for agriculture and horticulture? Re-evaluation of food also calls for the future of our food supply. Young farmers deserve our support. The scheme for young farmers has been evaluated by the NAYK. The scheme does not appear to be sufficiently in line with the daily practice of young farmers. There must be more and better choice in the case of investments on the list. The minimum amount to be invested in investment should be reduced, so that smaller companies can also make relatively small investments, for example in meadow boxes, cooling mattresses and machines. The Christian Union therefore wants the regime to be adapted. Does the Secretary of State ensure that NajK is closely involved in the evaluation and that he and provinces improve the scheme? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Last year I issued my own initiative paper on combating food waste. I'm seeing some great developments. The cooperation between companies and the food banks is getting better and better. The Alliance for the Sustainability of Food is working on monitoring and innovation. There is an approved motion from me and Mrs Koşer Kaya asking for a concrete Dutch commitment to record waste in the chain and liability of manufacturers and supermarkets. This has not yet worked out. I read the letter, but I find it really insufficient; there is no concreteisation. An example of a legal barrier is now the two-hour criterion for uncooled products. Why isn't this four hours, like in other countries? In addition, the Christian Union calls for an ambassador to waste food or a task force to waste food, which looks, among other things, at legal barriers. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I am also counting on the support of the House of Representatives when I put a motion to this effect. Recently I visited Stichting De Noordzee and the fishermen of the Masterplan Sustainable Fisheries with our fisheries spokesperson Eppo Bruins. This is a good example of technological innovation that helps the entrepreneur and nature. The steps taken in recent years therefore seem to have a positive effect. Fish mortality in the North Sea is steadily decreasing. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the pace at which the landing obligation is introduced is therefore unnecessary. Moreover, the landing obligation as it stands is unworkable. Because of the suffocating species, our fleet can be stopped after a few months. We always hear from the Ministry that it will not come to that, but this would be the result of the rules that are now in place. In short, it is no wonder that there is no support within the sector. The Christian Union considers it important to support one-man enterprises in the fisheries sector in technological innovation, as it is expensive and as exemption or temporary regulatory adjustment is necessary. Is the Secretary of State prepared to direct research into technological innovation in fisheries? I would like to help him with this, so there is an amendment on the way. I also call attention to the sheepherds. Today we received a petition. A little less than 100 sheepherds lack structural money to support the herds. It is striking that in the Netherlands only 20% of all heaths are grazed with sheep. In Germany this is 80%. Only in Drenthe and Limburg the situation is well solved for the sheepherders, but not elsewhere. It is important that the heather farm concept is viable, otherwise the sheep herd will disappear. That alone should not happen from a cultural and historical point of view. Yet provinces and government point to each other for a solution. This is not just about money, but also about the mandatory procurement and the VAT issue. Is the Secretary of State prepared to come to a solution together with the provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u300	Could you possibly ask the Secretary of State to consult with the VNG on the following? Today I heard from one of the sheepherds that he walked through the streets with his flock, that one of his sheep dropped three dribbles and that he then got a fine of €300. This kind of thing gives me really spontaneous diarrhea. I find that so nauseating! Perhaps you could ask the Secretary of State to consult with the VNG. When a member of the Christian Union asks, it always comes in a little better than when a PVV-tokkie does. This just shouldn't be possible! Municipalities should stop bullying sheepherds. You may be able to convey this request!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u301	It always makes me very warm when churches are open to sheep-cuddles on their territory. I also know some fine examples of this. The situation which Mr Graus has just described does not seem to me to be as it should be. That animals have to poop is how our Creator gave to the animals. It doesn't seem like you're gonna have to pay them for that. Let us indeed ask the Secretary of State if he wants to discuss this not only with the IPO, but also with the VNG. So I'd like to direct the questions. I come to the peasant birds. Research by Alterra shows that the current budget is insufficient to reverse the national trend in the decline of farmland birds. However, this budget needs farmers to take management measures, for example in order to preserve the fieldlark. I understand that POP funds from 2015 remain on the shelf. Does the Secretary of State have an overview of this? Is he prepared to agree, together with provinces under the direction of the Empire, on the use of the POP funds for agricultural nature management and the conservation of farmland birds? I'm closing up. Re-evaluation of food can only take place if farmers are given the opportunity to produce food and if they get a fair price for it. Next week is an important moment. Then we are going to deal with the law on phosphate rights. That is a painful but necessary measure. In doing so, the Christian Union opts for ground-boundness. We have an amendment to that effect. We also choose the future for healthy family businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u302	I know that Mrs Dik-Faber, like my group, wants to avoid land-based companies introducing phosphate rights. I would like to ask her the same question that I have also asked Mr Leenders. On 18 November we received a letter from the Secretary of State on voluntary reduction of phosphate before 1 January 2018. This proposal does not in any way prevent land-based businesses from doing so. Does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with me? Can we hang out and do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u303	I have seen that the sector has taken responsibility and that there is a package of measures for next year, in which land-based companies are not spared. I have also established that, and I think that is a real dilemma. It is our role as a policy to improve legislation. That is why I have tabled an amendment to the bill, which will enter into force in 2018. I hope the amendment will make it. Next year's measures were agreed by the sector, with no political discussion. For me, it is a real struggle whether we, as politicians, should intervene in a plan that has been established by the sector, also on behalf of the LTO, the NZO (Netherlands Dairy Organisation) and many other organisations, sector-wide. I haven't figured it out yet. I would like to reflect on that in the next few days. We're going to have the debate on it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u304	I understand that there is a dilemma and I can sympathise with it. But politics isn't at the table? There is a deal with 25 million in tax money as a contribution of this State Secretary to get that buyout in 2017. I think we can make a few demands on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u305	I think it is inevitable that public funds will be invested in order to take measures for dairy farming next year. That 25 million is being invested in the stopper scheme, which I do not think there is any discussion about. The discussion is about the track that is being used from the dairy sector. This route from the dairy organisations also affects the land-based dairy farmers. The discussion is about whether this measure, which is part of the overall package, can be maintained. I would not be in favour of taking down a measure and taking down the whole plan, because then we will really be empty-handed. However, I also see the importance of land-based dairy farming. That is a real dilemma for me. Again, there's still time. I am going to consider this in the next few days. At least I do not want to risk the derogation. I do not want to risk the future of dairy farming. That's the most important thing for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u306	Mr. Chairman. Last year in the budget, I was optimistic. We had a fresh Secretary of State, who had prepared himself well, who did the debate in an excellent way and who spoke fine words about sustainability, better food policy and the importance of nature. It kind of warmed me up. I was looking forward to working with this Secretary of State and seeing how far we could get. But I have also been a driver for a while, including in the beautiful city of Rotterdam. There's the verdict: not words, but deeds. We have nothing to say and the actions are lacking until now. With that my story is also critical to very critical. Beautiful words, but also this year zero euro for nature. The cabinet raised 1.5 billion new policy money, but zero for nature. I can imagine that it is a limited priority in total, but not zero. In any case, we could have solved the most serious problems in the field of nature management at the moment. I'd almost say two fingers in the nose. What has gone wrong, I ask the Secretary of State and actually towards coalition partner PvdA? What went wrong? Why isn't that lousy couple of million we needed for that just arranged? Was it just not worth it to the PvdA to settle this? It was simply not a priority, so I ask the Secretary of State and perhaps in a rhetorical sense also towards coalition partner Labour Party. It makes me sad, because there is a lot of work to be done. The Netherlands is in a bad position on the European ranking list. 4% of habitats are in favourable conservation condition. This means that we are fences within the European Union. We're not doing well on species protection. Only 23% of the species we know are in favourable conservation condition. We're among the worst boys in the class. My group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, wants to make the most of our nature. This means more money for purchasing, furnishing and managing nature. And, of course, we have to make use of the laws and regulations we have. There is a very good toolbox in the form of the new Natural Law. You just have to want to use that toolbox. The Secretary of State doesn't want that. You could designate remaining national monuments as special national nature reserves. The Secretary of State doesn't want that. You could also protect nature at sea. The Secretary of State isn't doing it. You could make a plan of approach for the meadow birds. The Secretary of State isn't doing it. It's all possible! He has the legal instruments at his disposal, but he doesn't use them. That's a political choice. I also look back with some mixed feelings on the beautiful election of the most beautiful nature reserve in the Netherlands. Publicity had that arranged to the point. It was great. Of course I like that happening. I'm behind it, too. This is good to increase the involvement in nature areas and to attract more public to nature areas. Because you have to be able to enjoy nature. A nature reserve should not be a closed area. However, I was a little embarrassed when the prize was pulled out. The price was €300,000, once. You can barely afford five rangers for a year. It's a tip! Does the Secretary of State realise that with more public there will also be a greater pressure on nature and that that means that that nature will also have to be more robust? How does the Secretary of State take care of that? I'm gonna be at the cattle farm. We have known for a long time that the relationship between agriculture and nature is of great importance and that this relationship is not very good at the moment. The more intensive forms of agriculture are disastrous for our nature goals. The Planning Office for the Environment was very clear about it. The environmental pressures of agriculture on nature and water remain too high. The high production volume leads to high ammonia emissions, too much manure, pollution of surface water and an excess of phosphate. An important key to achieving nature objectives, the Birds and Habitats Directives, water quality standards and the Water Framework Directive is therefore in the agricultural sector. We are not talking about the contribution of agriculture to our CO emissions. That's 13%. Therefore, if we want to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement, agriculture will not be able to stay out of hand either. These are harsh and crystal clear conclusions. But what does the Secretary of State intend to do about it? He still wants to come within the phosphate ceiling in 2017. Of course that must be done, but that is far from achieving these goals. That is, as it were, only repairing the damage caused by the hassle of recent years, after the abolition of milk quotas. That has been an incredibly big administrative blunder, a policy supported by many groups in the Chamber. There are not enough efforts to achieve a nature-inclusive agriculture. That would be the concept that could bring nature and agriculture back into balance. It's even going the wrong way. The number of megasthals is growing rather than falling, despite the ambitions. The grazing goes up and down, despite the ambitions. We have gone so far through the phosphate ceiling that we must now try to bring it back with real draconian measures. On this point, the Secretary of State has really derailed the matter completely. Since 2011 or 2012 it was clear that things would go wrong. "I told you so." I am very sorry to say that, but I said this repeatedly in the Chamber in 2011. But then I got a little crazy. From 2 July 2015 it was in any case completely clear. Then there was a letter from the predecessor of the current Secretary of State, Mrs Dijksma. Then it had to be one and a half years before there was a legislative proposal, which had to be withdrawn by half or more two weeks after the submission because it had been forgotten to submit it to the European Commission because of state aid rules. Can the Secretary of State please explain to the Chamber what happened there? This has really been a considerable degree of administrative blunder. I'll conclude, unless the Secretary of State has a very good story. The outcome of this phosphate problem is now a real crisis. This is a crisis for the farmers. Of course, on an individual level, these farmers cannot help that crisis, even though their own sector organisation has put them in the cold with this mad lobby for the abolition of milk quotas. But it is also a crisis for the environment. What do we do now? There is now a bill on which the Secretary of State suddenly says: I can only introduce it by 2018, because I cannot introduce the phosphate rights system earlier. That's not true! The only problem the European Commission has with it is the marketability of rights in the system. The Commission's problem is not that it is a system of rights, but that the rights are negotiable. This means that we will be able to achieve binding regulation in 2017. In fact, the European Commission would like to do so, but the Secretary of State does not. He chooses to come to some sort of solution with the sector now. On paper it sounds good, but all experience so far on agreements with the sector have one thing in common: if the government does not bind the sector and the sector organisations cannot bind their members, the outcome is highly uncertain. So is he now. That's high game play with the derogation. There is no binding regulation to actually get below that ceiling before 1-1-2018. I think that the European Commission will have little more coulance with the Netherlands if that is not finally settled. Then the turnips are really cooked. Now we need 25 million to contribute to the disposal of cows. Yes, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also believes that farmers should now be compensated, even if only because the government has failed and these parties cannot be put at a disadvantage, but it is a divinity. 7 million has suddenly been found in the budget. That doesn't matter if you spend more than a year trying to arrange a very small amount for grazing birds. It is said that it is not there, because there is no money. But if this problem is to be resolved, 7 million more will be found in the budget. Wrang. It's very harsh. Here there is a well-known proverb in politics: where there is will, there is a way, and where there is no will, there is no way. The lack of adequate intervention by this cabinet means that the taxpayer can pay for an undesirable further intensification of the dairy sector, which is not even effectively countered by the measure, because, as I have already said a few times in an interruption, the measures now agreed voluntarily do not protect the land-based farmers. Next week we will discuss this further, but from the Green Left Group I am going to try with all my might to help the Secretary of State to change this point. There are several amendments on land-based farms. They are all comparable; perhaps we should have a little more time together. I have also tabled an amendment to exempt land-based companies from the generic discount. I am counting on the support of the Labour Party, especially after the public statements made by Mr Leenders and the interrupting debate just now. It cannot be that we are now helping the biological and land-based companies, which have not contributed to the problem, to pay the bills. It can't be. The genuinely intensive livestock farming, which is part of it, is contributing less than 0.1% to our national economy, which is less than 0.1% of our GDP, while the costs that are passed on to society are enormous: nitrogen emissions, stench, viability problems, you name it. How much longer do we accept this? Can we now quickly make the transition to nature-inclusive agriculture, which does not hinder nature but strengthens it? Mr President, I am taking an extra minute at the expense of other matters. My group does, however, believe that farmers should be compensated for this. The grazing bird management. I was pleased to hear the Chamber's position on my own initiative paper. I was not happy with the letter sent by the Secretary of State in which he mainly indicated what he was not going to do. In any case, we agree that there is a problem. I even heard from the VVD that I had a point in raising this problem. Thank you for that, I say in the direction of Mr Heerema. I have now tabled an amendment to allow a very modest amount of money to be released for this purpose, not more than 2.5 million tonnes. I have drawn this out of 10 million, which is now being allocated to trade missions on a structural basis. Shall we solve this problem first? Isn't that a little closer? Then we still have EUR 7.5 million left for these trade missions. That sounds good enough to me. I would like to appeal to the groups in this Chamber to support this. We would then also have 2.5 million available, if we were to say that next year there will also be a transfer from the first to the second pillar of agricultural money. I say it very carefully: under conditions and conditions, because the money must of course land on the farmyard. This could then be compensated or supplemented with own money. Well, it has to be. The fact that nature-inclusive agriculture has not yet reached the cabinet can be seen in the 150 million that the cabinet wants to spend on manure fermentation. We have to go to land-based agriculture, but it doesn't happen if you put manure fermentation in the window for a capital amount from the SDE+. Fertilisation does not contribute to this. Phosphate and nitrate are not fermented, and if you want to ferment properly you have to add organic substances, but we need these organic substances because of the soil fertility problem. So we're putting the horse behind the wagon again. Would the Secretary of State wish to respond to this and would he like to reverse the policy on manure fermentation? Together with my colleague Liesbeth van Tongeren, I have tabled an amendment to delete that subsidy and to use it more effectively. The food dossier is a key issue for the Secretary of State. He's doing something about that, but I also have to say that he's still not really saying goodbye to the VVD's fairy tale over the nine billion mouths. Can I say it again? Food scarcity in the world is first and foremost a question of war, oppression, power inequality, food waste and so on, then nothing for a long time, and then a production issue. Exporting the overefficiency of Dutch agriculture worldwide leads to draconian loss of biodiversity and delay of hunger. My group is dissatisfied with the first year of this Secretary of State. I see that little has been realized. I see a lot of words but hardly any action. I see five letters dated 21 November, one day before this budgetary procedure, in a spasmodic attempt to demonstrate once more that the Secretary of State is achieving results. I don't see it. I see words, but no deeds, and the Secretary of State seems to be denying himself, in a way, the possibility of doing something about the phosphate problem with binding rules in 2017. I think it's a sad story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u307	Mr. Chairman. When I look at agriculture, horticulture and fisheries, I see top sectors, 80 billion in exports and good food of high quality. We feed many mouths all over the world with our food. We see a lot of investment, a lot of innovation. We see investments in innovation, animal welfare and the environment. In the meantime, primary producers are in trouble: the ordinary pig farmer, the ordinary chicken farmer, the ordinary dairy farmer, the ordinary fisherman. Family businesses are screwed. If I have to summarise the policy and its impact in recent years, then I see more and more rules, higher charges and lower prices. The margin will, of course, be under pressure, which gives little confidence to the future. This is not because of entrepreneurship in the sector, because everyone who goes on work visits is fortunately impressed by entrepreneurship. But it is due to the policies of the past few years. When I listen to the Secretary of State, I hear wonderful words about the economic value and innovative power of agriculture and horticulture. But I also see a cabinet that is mainly taking measures that are being put at the mercy of farmers, growers and fishermen. I see a cabinet acting passively. The Secretary of State wants fewer emissions, fewer antibiotics and more animal welfare. Fine, I agree. I think we all agree. But if the margin is constantly under pressure, how do you invest in it without going overboard? With Mr Graus, I ask the Secretary of State about the implementation of the Van der Staaij and others motion. Many colleagues, from the SP and other parties, have tabled motions in the past with the call: work on this model of earning! Secretary of State, what's up with that? And what can you do? The Secretary of State wants less emissions, less antibiotics and more animal welfare, but at the same time Minister Kamp is blocking a energy saving system for greenhouse horticulture, Minister Ploumen, supported by a large majority of this Chamber, approves trade agreements that put our pig farmers and farmers at a disadvantage and cuts €30 million in innovation and practical research. The Secretary of State and also Prime Minister Rutte praise the contribution of agriculture to export and economics. Those are fine words, but at the same time they have abolished product boards, so that it is difficult for farmers and gardeners to work well together. The sector is also subject to one burden increase after another: no red diesel, no VAT on agriculture, expensive NVWA accounts and a registration requirement for tractors. Once again, the margin is under pressure. How to invest in animal welfare and the environment, when it is not regulated that the consumer rewards it? The Secretary of State has some resounding stories about the future of the European agricultural policy, but under the line there is less money left for family businesses. I also do not see the beginning of an answer to the question of how prices should be raised and costs reduced. The Secretary of State says that he thinks the derogation is important and that it is deserved, but why has he still not flown the European capitals to argue the Dutch case? Why does he keep playing the ball to the sector organisations? Why is there not yet a comprehensive package, including measures to improve water quality area-oriented? That is what we should be talking about, isn't it? It should not primarily be about phosphate or less cows, but about improving water quality. This has to be different. There's another way to do this. I am the first to say that many of these things will probably only be dealt with by a new cabinet: a Minister of Agriculture, lower burdens and a truly better market regulation with higher prices. However, a number of things can happen now. I would therefore like to use this budgetary treatment to indicate a number of concrete things. The Secretary of State chooses to allocate 15 million extra to a Food Agenda, but on the other hand he cuts 30 million on sustainable innovation and knowledge development in agriculture. I see the Secretary of State shaking no; we will hear that on Thursday. I think this is unwise. The biggest sustainability statement is with farmers and gardeners and their suppliers. This is precisely where innovation and knowledge development are needed. A few weeks ago, I was at a test farm in Colijnsplaat. I know that many of my colleagues have also visited that test farm; it is a beautiful place. The forewoman told me there were a lot of research questions from the field, but there was a lack of budget. Once again, those product boards were discussed. It can't be picked up now or it's not getting picked up enough. That's a missed opportunity. I have therefore tabled an amendment. With 10 million extra for innovation, farmers and gardeners can make a better job of a sustainable future. What's the Secretary of State in there? We have already discussed the VAT agricultural regime in an interrupting debate. In the present budget, this arrangement is referred to the trash can with a single sentence. That can't be true, can it? A large group of small farmers are now saddled with VAT accounts. Following the evaluation, it was reported that there is no support for abolition. The Tax Plan also leaves the scheme alone. I think this is inappropriate governance: it is in the budget that the VAT system should be removed, but not regulated in the Tax Plan. So you actually say to a new cabinet: figure it out and make sure you get a majority in the Chamber. That's not how we deal with it, is it? I ask the Secretary of State to withdraw this proposal. The cabinet chooses to pass on more and more inspection costs of the NVWA to the agricultural sector. Most of them end up on the farmer's plate sooner or later. We don't want to go along with that. The Secretary of State always refers to keeping the government's framework Size, but the Council of State has already made a thick red line through that story. By passing on indirect costs and supervisory costs, the NVWA goes too far. And I am not even talking about the problems of export inspections and regal tariffs. Surely it can't be that a poultry abattoir has to count down $300,000 for a full-time supervisor? €300,000 for a supervisor: you can buy two State Secretarys for that. When is the Secretary of State gonna fix this? The NVWA is still in the mangel. The authority must do more than less. That's what we're getting together. For example, the producers of plant-based material recently called for insufficient use of NVWA for plant-health services. Fishing is in the hair about the product controls the NVWA wants to throw over the fence. In addition, there are still many bottlenecks in the implementation of monitoring. When I look at the budget, I worry. The budget for next year is not much more than the budget for this year. And in two years' time, there will be another 20 million euro cut. I think that structural money should be added. We can't do without a strong NVWA. An innovative and sustainable agriculture and horticulture needs professionals. I'm talking about green education. Good and adequate education is crucial for this. I see two dark clouds. The first dark cloud is the uneven funding of green MBOs and other MBOs. The cabinet tried to justify this unequal treatment last year. Now there is a report from an official working group which fully recognises this unequal treatment: the green MBO is under 25 million euros. Of course, that's gonna get tight. Several schools are probably writing red numbers this year, next year all the way. Teachers need to get out of the way, practice lessons should be dropped, and the survival of small, specialised training is at stake. This isn't going well. And what does the Cabinet do? It moves the hot potato to its successor. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about this. What possibilities does he see to fix this now? The second dark cloud is the imminent transfer of green education to the Ministry of Education. Green education now works well with the Ministry of Industry and Industry. The importance of this is underlined by everyone. Then why cross over? Surely equal funding can also be properly regulated in the current situation at the front. You don't need a transfer for that. As far as I'm concerned, the potential small efficiency gains, if any, do not outweigh new administrative issues. No one is getting better, but education is getting the better of it. What does the Secretary of State intend to do? Fertiliser policy needs to be kicked. Generic tightening of manure policy is not working. The soil fertility is deteriorating. In order to preserve the derogation, it is crucial that there is a good proposal for the new action programme very quickly. How far along is the Secretary of State with that? We, too, have put some on paper to give this a push. I'd like to hand that over to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u308	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u309	I would very much like to give you a few key points: an area-oriented policy based on measurements, more manure at high crop yields and more organic matter. Does the Secretary of State agree that these are necessary elements of an approach? Does he want to respond to these main points? Does he think of them as lines of thought for his policy? The package of plant protection products is under pressure, especially for smaller crops, such as grass seed cultivation. The Secretary of State is in the middle of an analysis, but is he going to make sure there's more room? Is he gonna speed up? When will the analysis and the cabinet response come to the Chamber? Demand for organically grown apples and pears is increasing. However, Dutch fruit growers do not dare to jump into that, and so those apples and pears are imported, whereas we in our own country can do so well. That is a missed opportunity, not only for our own consumption but also for exports. A major bottleneck is the availability of biological plant protection products. Organic growers in Germany are allowed to use much more resources than growers in the Netherlands. It is not just about the resources themselves, but also about the approval. Our growers do not now dare to switch to organic products, partly because insufficient resources are too high a risk. That's the world upside down, isn't it? Resources such as lime sulphur and cassia should simply, as in Germany, be granted a standard exemption. I'd love some action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u310	I did not get to it in my own term because of the limited speaking time, so I would like to ask the SGP Member, the men's brothers. Doesn't he agree that their own products should be presented in such a way that people can see that they are Dutch products? For example with flags: Dutch quality. I'd like to get a reaction to that. I see that this is happening in Austria. I very much like to come to Austria, where I see that our own products are being greatly promoted and that restaurants and consumers are actually giving it to those German farmers first. Should we not do that again, if necessary with a little pressure from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u311	I am happy to pass on this question to the Secretary of State, Mr Graus, who knows the game, but I do agree with him that this Holland promotion is important. You can also see abroad that this really gives an extra price, an extra margin. I think that's one of the cynical things when you look at what we're doing here and where our milk is going. That includes China, India, Africa, Latin America and South America. Those countries want that Dutch flag and those Dutch texts on it, because they know it's high quality, good stuff that hasn't been messed with. We will, of course, talk about this next week, because we will turn our necks on some of the exports if we reduce the number of cows. Finally. We are proud of a sector that manages to dispose of 80 billion in exports under these difficult conditions. We are proud of a fishing industry which, despite all the difficult circumstances, is trying to carry on with the obligation to land. But what does the Secretary of State do with this? Does he really offer solutions? Is he gonna make charges go down? Does he ensure that impossible regulation, such as landing obligation for fishing, is withdrawn? Many entrepreneurs and their families are in suspense. Will our son be able to take over our milk company in ten years? Yesterday the figure came: there are 15,000 farmers without a successor. 60% of farmers over 55 have no one standing by. That's not what we want with this sector, is it? How do you want to attract investment from entrepreneurs when they think: I don't even have a successor; can I pass on my company? This sector needs directors who want to make a full commitment to these entrepreneurs. At least ensure that farmers, fishermen and gardeners are able to give their own hands and feet to their stewardship. When I go into the country, I meet a lot of people who have little faith in the Secretary of State's policy. The Secretary of State has six months left. What's he gonna do to regain that trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u312	I call the Animal Party, which entered the Chamber ten years ago. There are other colleagues who have a memory of this; so do I personally. I, too, had some good pastries. Congratulations on behalf of all of us. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u313	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, today, ten years ago, for the first time in history, a party was elected to a national parliament that does not place the short-term interests of people at the centre, but the interests of all living beings. That was the Party for Animals, a party that thinks we should think away from the people's center. There is every reason for that. Now you must be thinking: we're having a nice party today, we had cake and it's cozy, and then the birthday boy's gonna give a speech for an hour. Well, that's not exactly what you're waiting for. And it's also a speech that doesn't really bear witness to great joy. Because there's a lot to worry about. But I'll reassure you. You guys can go quietly and listen. I come not only with abuses, but also with solutions. The way we deal with animals has a huge impact on everything that matters to us, our children and our grandchildren. The way we deal with animals determines the climate, public health, biodiversity, soil quality, water and soil, and it also gives an example to our children. The future opportunities of future generations are at stake because of the way we deal with animals. I'll explain in a minute. We are the first generation to face the problems of large-scale intensive livestock farming. At the same time, we are the last generation to be able to do anything about it, given the climate crisis. It is said that man is not naturally inclined to change. Maintaining intensive, large-scale dairy farming, chicken farming, pig farming and all the other ways in which people exploit animals confirm that. The problem is that traditional politics seem to feel powerless to change the situations that are the blemishes on our civilisation. For more than 30 years, ministers and secretaries of state have been pointing to the livestock industry, which must take the initiative itself to become more animal and environmental and not to pose a threat to public health. For more than 30 years, industry has been virtually undermining innovation and improvement, staggering from food crisis to food crisis, from animal disease crisis to animal disease crisis and from violation of the law to violation of the law. Many farmers are in a very tight position between the bank and the market. Every year, the cost has to be reduced to be able to compete in the rat race to the bottom. Many farmers have become anonymous raw materials producers. Guilt-heard from the banks, I'd like to call them. It is totally illogical to ask all farmers to change their business on a voluntary basis in such a system. That's it for four reasons. First of all... Farmers who produce for a niche market are not waiting for more providers. Those who now supply a unique product do not need competition. Second. Many farmers have developed a moral blind spot in relation to animal welfare. By way of illustration: in the discussion about the cow's calf, many common dairy farmers argue that giving breast milk to their own calves would make the calves sick and the dams false. Third. Farmers are tied with hands and feet to a system that they cannot change themselves. The debt to the bank hangs like a millstone around their necks. At falling prices they can barely or not keep their heads above water. If they wanted to, they often couldn't do otherwise. Fourth. It is downright perverse to make a sector that stands for it dependent on self-regulation and to say bluntly: figure it out for yourself; arrange it yourself. The invisible hand of the free market, which the VVD so much loves to believe in, means that seven family farms per day have to close the fence of their farms. Last month the Economic and Social Council strengthened that the government should show leadership and act as market master and that the time of no commitment and fine intentions is over. The Secretary of State can no longer sit on his hands after this umpteenth alarm clock of a renowned advisory body, even if the VVD requires him to do so. During the first budget debate on agriculture and nature in this cabinet, I said that there were a lot of opportunities for open objectives to reform agriculture. The coalition agreement didn't stand in the way of that. But the interests of animals, environment and nature became political change. They were exchanged against the interests of the livestock industry and the economic interests in the short term of only a few agricultural mega-farms. The propaganda machine also turned at full speed. Organisations such as LTO, NZO, FNLI, NVV, NVP..................................................................................................................................................... About the University of Wageningen, I have the following question: when is the motion to remove Wageningen University & Research from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and leave it under the Ministry of Education? In this way, independence can be better guaranteed. For the sake of clarity, I would like to refer to yesterday's lost interim proceedings against Trouw. Trouw had reported that the University of Wageningen had carried out a research on the deposit system sponsored by the business community, the outcome of which was already established in advance. Wageningen was not served by this report and went to court, but the judge ruled that Trouw's analysis was completely correct. There's a big problem at the University of Wageningen. The agricultural lobby did everything it could to dedicate Secretary of State Dijksma and later Secretary of State Van Dam to the most romantic side of their nerd: fluffy chicks, cute pigs in a showstand full of straw, a guided tour of their real Rondel stable, of which there are only a handful. The poultry farmer would move towards it by itself, it will be fine, it will go by itself, be aware: we have been hearing about these round stables for twelve years. The road to hell is paved with sight stables and optimistic company visits to nicely raked example companies. For everyday reality, the Secretary of State is not invited. He is not invited to the live shredding of tens of millions of one-day Shanes, the unsedated cutting of the tails and teeth of pigs, the catching of puffy chickens, which can no longer stand on their own feet or the unsedated slaughter of animals. Of all the realities that the bio-industrie can show, the most romantic variants are shown. We are seeing a tendency towards even more unnatural farming systems. For example, there is the development of laboratory stalls to reduce antibiotic use. There are also megasthals. It is a hopeless road that is only fueled by ultra-short-term thinking. The agricultural economy is moving towards more for less, in all respects: more animals, but less income; more stables, but fewer farmers; more megas and fewer family farms; more animal diseases and a less safe environment for citizens; more exports and a less stable climate. When will the Secretary of State end this? The Secretary of State has only a few months left to put missionary and possibly more missionary order in agriculture, to put an end to the false promises of more animal welfare and more sustainability. Every year more than 500 million puff chickens are slaughtered that are bred for extreme growth. Their bodies are exhausted. There is fluid in the abdominal cavity and the bones are too weak to carry the weight. The animals have severe blisters on their soles of their feet because they wear out their entire lives in their own feces. Eventually, they can't walk anymore and they drop through their paws. But Mrs Lodder thinks that the animal welfare of chickens is excellent. Then comes the fully automatic chick sweeping machine for the puffing hens. It literally wipes the animals off the floor, with a roll of rubber fingers, at a rate of 8,000 chickens per hour. Animal-friendly, cheers the manufacturer. However, he had to take that claim from the Advertising Code Commission off his website when it appeared that a quarter of the chicks left the stable with severe injuries. The only reason for this method of production is money. For economic reasons, we abuse animals for life and give them no more than a marginal existence. Even their dying is for economic reasons a agony that you would not wish your worst enemy, let alone a defenseless and innocent animal. Animals literally have no life, at least, no life after their own nature. Can the Secretary of State indicate when, in his opinion, chickens should be able to live by their nature? That brings me to the very difficult situation of the bovines. Cows shall be reared for meat production in such a way that they are no longer able to give birth naturally. A C-section, a far-reaching procedure, has become as good as standard practice. Because of the breeding there is a considerable risk of malformed calves. As with puffy chickens, the body cannot handle the weight in many cases. The cows look like the pork chops on the outside are stuck to their bodies. It does not fit in with the way animal welfare is formulated in most election programmes, but paper is patient and reality is very resistant. For money, everything is for sale, especially in a country of merchants, where even the vicars or their political representatives have announced their commitment to less rules in livestock farming and even lower costs for business. Rent mastery in 2016, as the cabinet likes to see it. The beef and veal sector will have the opportunity to come up with a plan of action to phase out caesarean cuts in thick buttocks in the long term: mañana, mañana, president. Then the dairy industry. For years it has been held up to us, through commercials about "milk, the white engine" and through the claim "milk is good for everyone." Cow milk is indeed very good, but only for newborn calves, calves that are separated immediately after the birth of their mother. It is a system that has become completely out of control, and it is now affecting not only the calves but also their mothers, farmers, public health, biodiversity and climate. I made a film about that in 2007: Meat the Truth. Evidence of the negative effects of dairy farming is building up. Dairy farmers are calling the alarm clock about the low milk price. It's literally crying about spilling milk. It is the metamorphosis of dairy farming that has caused the low prices. The milk quotas had to and would disappear. The Tweede Kamer was flattened by the LTO, the Land- en Tuinbouw Organisation Netherlands. The LTO promised golden mountains like milk quotas but were abolished. And the quotas went off. Massively, the farmers were going to keep more cows. What happened? The price dropped. Was that foreseeable? Of course, any entrepreneur can tell you that. Scaling up does not lead to more income security. On the contrary, it leads to vulnerable companies. Now the taxpayer has to pay for the overproduction. Tens of millions of euros are being released to allow an industry that has put itself in trouble to postpone execution. Moreover, this postponement of execution does not apply to dairy cows themselves. According to the latest reports, 200,000 healthy animals will be sacrificed on the altar of the economy. There is hardly any mention of the suffering caused by cows. It's about calculation models, feed tracks, derogation and, above all, tens of millions of grants as a patch on a stinking wound. How can a system like this ever be justified? The Secretary of State should have shown leadership. Specially enough, the dairy farmers think so too. Why didn't anyone stop us, for example with rules? That is how farmers' accusations are now being made to The Hague. We read that in the Volkskrant last month. I would like to repeat this question loud and clear and put it to the Secretary of State. Why didn't the Cabinet stop them? Is the question and its answer not the final declaration of bankruptcy of self-regulation? What is the point of this suffering of humans and animals? I have to disappoint anyone who still believes in it. For the money, we don't have to do it. Dairy farming contributes 0.3% to gross domestic product, while the same dairy farming is responsible for at least 50% of national ammonia emissions and therefore a serious threat to nature. Such damage shall be at least EUR 1 billion per year. The total externalities are the costs that no one is going to bear and which must be coughed up sooner or later by the taxpayer from dairy farming amounts to between EUR 2.5 billion and EUR 7.5 billion per year. The added value of dairy farming in 2015 was 3.2 billion. This means that dairy farming costs considerably more than it produces, according to Quivertree's research. The milk is paid expensively. Dairy farming is the new bio-industry. The Secretary of State previously promised "quality rather than more for less" during the agricultural budget. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he has turned these good intentions into action or intends to convert them into action in the coming months? I'd like to get a response to that. I would like to draw particular attention to the calves who are the victims of dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u314	I have been listening to Mrs Thieme's speech for a while. Does Mrs Thieme know that there have been 1 million fewer cows in the Netherlands since 1980?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u315	There's too many of them now. The dairy farmers are now bringing 200,000 cows to slaughterhouses prematurely because they are no longer economically worth anything. It would be a good thing for Mr Geurts if he also said that he was a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u316	Let Mrs Thieme be honest now, to the Chamber and to the audience who are listening. You don't want to keep a farmer in the Netherlands. You still want to have a few root growers left, and that's what we have to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u317	The way in which we have now set up our agriculture makes of farmers who want to run their business, anonymous bulk producers and raw materials producers. Every farmer I speak to would like to be rewarded for his quality and would like to earn a fair price. But the CDA's government policy and policy over the last 20 to 30 years has made it necessary to stop five farmers a day. That is what Mr Geurts should be charging himself for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u318	I would like to continue on that point. Mrs Thieme is now talking about hard-working farmers who want to do well, but at the beginning of her speech she said that farmers in the Netherlands have a moral blind spot for animal welfare. A moral blind spot for animal welfare, says the Party for Animals. Well, that's all there is to it, isn't it? Then the purpose of the Party for the Animals is clear, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u319	It is quite clear that previous ministers said, as Minister Brinkhorst said at the time of the swine fever crisis, that if you work in such a cost-driven system for a while, you will at some point get professional deformation. Then you don't see what is actually accepted by society anymore. I would like to ask Mrs Dik-Faber again. The fact that dairy farmers say in the debate about calves in the cow that a calf is sick of the milk of its own mother and that the mother becomes false about it, doesn't it indicate that they are very much dissembled from the natural order of things?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u320	It's nice trying to ask a counter question, but my question hasn't been answered yet. The Animal Party said at the beginning of its speech that farmers have a moral blind spot for animal welfare. She even calls it professional deformity now. I think this is a very bad thing for farmers in our country, who work with heart and soul, every day, for our food supply. I agree with what Mr Geurts has said: then the aim of the Party for Animals is simply very clear: not an animal-friendly agriculture, but simply an end to agriculture as it is currently practised in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u321	The bio-industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u322	An end to keeping animals in our country. That must stop; that is the purpose of the Party for the Animals. That leaves us with plant production. That's not what the Christian Union stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u323	We do want an end to the bio-industry. We've wanted that for ten years. Mrs Dik-Faber knows that, too. If you raise a chicken from the moment it is born within six weeks from a few grams to a meat lump of 2.5 kilos that sinks through its own legs and has blisters under its legs, that's pure animal cruelty. So if you continue to do so, we have a problem that we have all created. That should end immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u324	I'm gonna come up again anyway. How often does Mrs Thieme come into an animal stable? How many times has she seen chickens being kept in our country? How often has she seen how this happens abroad? Does it want to recognise that it is more sustainable and more animal-friendly in our country than in other countries? Will she please take back her words about animal cruelty? I almost take it personally. I am standing here in front of the farmers, and I'm really not gonna take it if they get thrown out of here like animal molesters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u325	Farmers are all responsible for this diseased system together with the consumers who buy the puffy chickens. That's right. Anyone who reflects on another is softly mirroring, so don't talk about other countries where it might be even worse. We are dealing here with 500 million puffy chickens who suffer a miserable life every day in miserable conditions in a dark barn. Mrs Dik-Faber should be concerned about that. That should not be possible in a civilization like ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u326	It is rather presumptuous how Mrs Thieme is putting a whole sector here; I can hardly call it anything else. Nor do I think it is very neat that a sector which cannot defend itself should listen to this argument in this way. I believe that Mrs Thieme and the Animal Party have only one goal: that the Dutch consumer no longer eats meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u327	The sector has every day the opportunity to lobby Mrs Lodders and others with heavy lobbying resources. In this respect, farmers are given every opportunity to continue to promote their business as usual. The abolition of milk quotas under pressure from LTO has now resulted in the death of both dairy farmers and animals. I really think that in this Chamber, too, we often have to deal with a moral blind spot for the way in which we deal not only with animals but also with farmers in the Netherlands. If we continue like this, with business as usual, and think that the free market can solve everything, we will not have a farmer left here in the Netherlands. So, as I will say later in my speech, I would like to say that we are opting for a different agricultural system, which offers real prospects for farmers, for animals, for nature and for the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u328	That's not an answer to my question. Let Mrs Thieme be honest and let them say here that the Dutch consumer must stop eating meat, because that is what she is trying to do. That's fine, but then we don't have to put an entire sector on the same page here for half an hour and put it like a bunch of criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u329	We are all responsible for this organized system, which causes large animal suffering. In a very large manifesto, over 300 professors and scientists from this country argued a few years ago that the bio-industry should be stopped. It is widely worn in society. The Economic and Social Council has also said that this farming system is no longer sustainable at this time and that there is insufficient public support for the current livestock sector. Those are High Colleges of State we should definitely listen to. So it is not just the Animal Party that says that we need to organise our food in a different way. More and more scientific agencies and others also indicate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u330	Mrs Thieme does not answer the questions. The question is very simple: should we stop eating meat in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u331	I'd say watch the movie Meat the Truth. It's online on our site, in 12 languages, I believe. I think there's probably one in between that Mr Geurts might be looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u332	We're not getting an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u333	Oh, yeah! I'd give it to you, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u334	I am speaking now and not you! That's what the chairman's gonna say to you. Don't talk through me! I find that inappropriate! I also find it inappropriate how you speak of a very hard-working category in the Netherlands. Just be honest and say that in the Netherlands, in the eyes of your party, no meat should be eaten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u335	I think it is extremely important that we move towards a society in which much less meat is eaten, certainly! That is because it is unsustainable to continue with so much meat consumption and because it is bad for the climate, bad for nature, bad for biodiversity and bad for our public health. So, yeah. If we all started in the Netherlands with one day a week without eating meat, that would be equivalent to a greenhouse gas savings of 1 million cars being taken off the road. Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's what I stand for, and that's what I've been standing for for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u336	One flight back and forth to Marrakesh also gives a lot of CO. The point is that Mrs Thieme does not answer. She's turning around. The core is simply that the Animal Party wants no more meat to be eaten in the Netherlands and that there are no more farmers and farmers making it. You don't want any of that. You want us to just eat from a factory where vegetarian food comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u337	If we want to have a healthy soil for our children and grandchildren, it is extremely important that we drastically reduce our meat consumption. This says not only the Animal Party, but also the Planning Office for the Environment, the Scientific Board for Government Policy, Chatham House, the FAO and Louise Fresco, to name just one of Wageningen University's employees. There are so many people; it is a trend that cannot be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u338	Good. Mrs Thieme continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u339	I would like to draw particular attention to the calves that are the victims of the dairy industry. We know that in the Netherlands there are 30 dairy farmers who leave the calves with the mothers, only 30 out of 17,000 dairy farms. What about the motion that has been passed asking for a plan of action to stop separating newborn calves from their mothers? The newborn calf is put into a single box immediately after birth. It must not be called a coffin calf anymore...................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's going to suck desperately on other calves. In Gelderland we recently saw calves who, to counteract this, had been given a nose ring with sharp protrusions to suppress this natural behavior with a torture tool. Is that animal cruelty or not? How does the Secretary of State judge this behaviour? I'd like to get a response. Then there's another pig that needs to be washed. Many pigs make the lavage thin, says the proverb, and in pig farming it is very palpable, for the animals and for the farmers. In many pig stables there is still a lack of the mandatory distraction material and piglets' tails are cut off massively in violation of legal requirements. Teeth are filed off. Animal cruelty! Fire safety systems are lacking in many cases. For years the pig industry has been breeding sows that give as many piglets as possible per throw. It is expected to reach 40 piglets per sow per year within three years. Because the sow does not have enough teats, special supersows are bred with extra teats. In the fight against excessive antibiotic policy, farmers build almost sterile stables, called "specific pathogen free" stables, laboratory stalls where piglets and pigs are literally stacked in plastic containers and run over rails. Life, suffering and dying on the conveyor belt, literally. This is called a "high care" stand. Marketing is a nice, but cynical business. During a working visit, the Chamber was shown a video of a pig farmer who proudly showed that his stable full of pigs was antibiotic-free. This pig farmer had to shower several times a day and hug himself in sterile plastic from top to toe. He therefore only comes planned and as little as possible in his computer-controlled and hermetically sealed stable. Photographers aren't allowed in. Charming, taking a sandbath, rooting, social behavior; it can't be done in a laboratory stall. Can the Secretary of State state state what he thinks of laboratory stalls in the context of his efforts to give animals the right to natural behavior? After such a short and miserable life in the cattle industry, the gassing follows. If a pig is at slaughter weight, the animal is driven into an elevator after transport to descend to a CO-filled room. There's no camera surveillance, but the sounds speak for themselves. A trial set-up by the University of Zurich revealed that the pigs in the gas chamber die a horrible death. But the Dutch pig industry insists that gasification would be very humane. It's an astonishing observation! I'll post the footage online after my contribution, so the audience can judge for themselves. Pigs gasp for air, scream in panic and try to escape to suffocate after a long death struggle. The NVWA found that stunning CO prior to slaughter in pigs causes serious animal welfare problems. Our adopted motion to phase out CO stunning has not been implemented so far. In the Netherlands, more than 60,000 pigs die in this way a week. Meanwhile, slaughterhouses are still changing massively to this cheap and macabre slaughter method. I'm calling the Secretary of State to account today. In what way is the gassing of pigs compatible with the ideals that led him to a political career? He was looking for "real problems and workable solutions." How is it compatible with his party's electoral programme and with his ideals of the day? How is it compatible with the coalition agreement, which talks about a brutal approach to animal cruelty? I'd like to hear a response. The cattle industry is a fucked-up system. That's not just disastrous for the animals themselves. Half of chicken meat, 40% of veal and 13% of beef are infected with antibiotic-resistant bacteria. ESBL has already led to human deaths. People who live near livestock farms suffer from particulate matter, endotoxins, outbreaks of zoonoses and stench. At the time of the Q-fever epidemic, we were able to see how animal diseases can pass on to humans. Tens of thousands of people got infected. 4,000 people became chronically ill. At least 74 people died. Not only the outbreak of Q fever, but also outbreaks of avian influenza and swine fever have caused millions of deaths among animals. These diseases threaten public health on an unprecedented scale. Should the Secretary of State not conclude with me that the current livestock sector is also unsustainable in terms of health risks? The Secretary of State calls the Netherlands, with the largest intensive livestock farming, champion in the field of animal welfare. Can he keep doing that after I mentioned all these examples? The Netherlands is one of the countries with the lowest percentage of organic agricultural land in the EU. Organic holdings account for only 3.1% of agricultural land. That is far below the average in Europe. Only countries such as Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania score worse in this respect. So you can call yourself animal welfare champion if you lock hundreds of millions of animals in dark concrete stables, while the animals that are in there never see the light of day. Why is the Secretary of State acting like the bio-industry propaganda chief? Can he at last clarify this during the last missionary budget debate of the Rutte II cabinet, so that the electorate can make a thorough assessment of government policy? Of course, the conservative forces within the industry have tried to make it clear that change can only come from the market, and that the government must, above all, remain at a distance. They point to the level playing field in Europe, which puts everything on the long track. They point out that any improvement must be made mainly on a voluntary basis. This has been said since the debate on the acceptability of intensive agriculture about 40 years ago. We see the tactics of sidestepping and deliberately slowing down especially when there is a need for change and the vested interests, the polluting interests do not make sense. "Transition Pain" is what the Planning Office for the Environment calls it. The agency advises the government not to go along with that anymore. According to the PBL, the times of covenants, blueprints, task forces and self-regulation are really over. My group agrees with that. I have already said that the Economic and Social Council also concludes that non-committalism and self-regulation in the livestock sector must now be brought to an end. Can the Secretary of State promise that he will actually accept these recommendations? Because what was the Secretary of State supposed to do? Herman Wijffels was chairman of a committee on the future of livestock farming. He said in that context during a broadcast of ZEMBLA the following. "The Dutch ambition to feed the world is tremendously overwhelmed. Since my report, the cabinet has not set any hard limits on dairy farming. Already, a number of large dairy farms are in particular managed. It illustrates that the vulnerability is increasing in the economic and financial sense. Politics has done too little for too long and created this problem itself. Ready!" The Secretary of State has left behind the important task of restoring public confidence in the government. The livestock sector is in a deep, deep crisis. Feeders get the water on their lips. They're begging for government leadership. That leadership will have to lead to a food policy. That is also what the Scientific Council for Government Policy proposes. This means that we have to look closely at how we produce our food and who we produce it for. In addition, knife and fork are our most powerful weapons against climate change, welfare diseases, environmental pollution and animal suffering. And not just that. The hunger in the world is not caused by too little food. On the contrary, barely two thirds of the food is actually eaten. If we look at the amount of food harvested on the fields, much and much less will end up in a human mouth. About 40% of the world's grain harvest is swallowed by intensive livestock farming. These are valuable nutrients, of which a large proportion of the calories available are lost. The issue of food is a question of distribution. The most important question is: can all people get sufficient and sufficient food now and in the future? Yes, we can, but then we finally have to make real choices for the long term. There are two roads open. We can continue on the current road of over-consumption of meat, dairy and eggs. This is the path of megasthals, of deforestation of the tropical rainforest to make way for even more plantations for animal feed. It is also the path of Bayer and Monsanto, which poisons soils and water, and threatens to destroy bees and butterflies. It is the path of fertilizer, which in the short term can increase food production, but leaves the soil exhausted in the long term. It is the path of monocultures, in which diseases and plagues easily prevail and massive crop losses are lurking. It is the way on which five to seven farmers in the Netherlands have to stop their business every day, because they simply cannot keep selling their products below cost. And it is the path of TTIP and CETA, which will make it even more difficult for many farmers to continue to compete. But there's another way, too. This road is characterized by an agricultural system that is in harmony with the environment, with the environment, with humans and animals, in which smart cooperation with nature rather than combating it with agricultural poison. Organic farming, for example, already knows all kinds of ways to farm without poison. It is an agro-ecological farming system in which nutrients are closed on a regional scale, so that soils remain fertile without the use of fertilizer, in which food is no longer wasted but feeds people. That doesn't just mean throwing away less food. It means, above all, that we must stop wasting food we can eat ourselves through animals as an unnecessary intermediary. Why should we feed two to seven kilos of soy to an animal to keep only one kilo of meat from it if we can eat that kilo of soy ourselves? Meat is a very inefficient way of protein production and cannot possibly feed the growing number of mouths in the world. According to a study by the University of Minnesota, we can feed 4 billion more people on the current arable land if we choose to stop processing agricultural crops into animal feed and biofuel. When our food becomes more vegetable, we can feed more people, preserve biodiversity and slow down climate change. We are also building a more sovereign food system, which we seem to have abandoned a long time ago, but which is the key to a sustainable and just food system. Europe now produces only 20% of its plant protein needs. We are 80% dependent on imports. This is an incredibly high risk in an unstable world, compared to our energy dependence. On the other hand, it also offers an opportunity for farmers to draw that back to themselves. The cultivation of protein-rich crops in the Netherlands and Europe, also for direct human consumption, is fortunately gradually increasing, although it is still very slow. This is hopeful because it brings us one step closer to sustainable and independent food supplies. The good news is that more and more Dutch people buy organic products. The use of organic food in the Netherlands has quadrupled since 2009. Organically, over €1 billion in consumer spending is still in growth despite the crisis. Only 13% of Dutch people eat meat every day. So there are so many opportunities for farmers to stay here when they opt for organic farming. Why do we not use all the energy, all the time and all the investment for that kind of farming? The government has an important role to play in achieving future-proof agriculture. Consumers show that they want more regional and animal-friendly production. This is something that the politicians must take care of, because it is precisely the market that is failing there. People do not want unsustainable and unethical products on the shelves and they expect that to be settled. No consumer complains that there are no more cheap battery eggs for sale, no more than one consumer would complain that there would no longer be any clothes for sale made with children's hands. A good example of listening to social wishes is Tesla, the smallest car manufacturer in the world. The Tesla company is worth a hundred times more per car sold than General Motors, the largest car brand in the world, according to the market value. Therefore, if we want a future for our farmers and successors for existing farms, the cabinet will have to show leadership and commit itself to promising, new and future-proof agricultural systems. We need to create a framework within which stable and sustainable development can take place in ecological agriculture. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Not only animals in livestock farming are threatened in their welfare. Every year more than a million animals are shot in nature for the fun of a handful of hunters. The pleasure hunt would be banned, according to most election programs of the political parties represented in this house, but the will of the VVD became law. The PvdA had to promise in backrooms that the pleasure hunt would remain unaffected, otherwise the VVD would not agree with the new Nature Protection Act. Mrs Lodders just said that she had indeed done so. Hunters also put a lot of energy into the initiation of politicians into the most romantic side of what they do in the woods and in the moors. According to his own words, the hunter sheds a tear when he takes an animal out of the system to protect it from severe suffering. A hunter likes to tell us that the pleasure hunt makes a substantial contribution to the sustainability and regionalisation of our food. That is absolute bullshit that no sane representative of the people should give in to. The very intensive shooting and hunting in the Netherlands only yield 35 grams of Dutch game per Dutch person per year. 85% of game consumed in the Netherlands does not come from Dutch nature. This is simply from the bio-industry in countries such as Argentina, Poland and New Zealand. The pleasure hunt is not at all an answer to the demand for regionally produced food. Even if you shoot all the animals in the Netherlands in nature every year, you still can't feed the people. In fact, the impact on nature is enormous. The natural population dynamics of animals are literally shot to shreds. By taking animals like hunting booty, valuable minerals from the cycle are lost. This causes a serious deterioration of nature. Hunters like to mirror the hunt as an animal-friendly alternative to the bio-industry. But young animals remain motherless and therefore unkempt. Partner associations are cruelly disturbed and the group hierarchy is literally helped to the eternal hunting grounds, resulting in wandering animals, which can become a danger to themselves or others. A hail pattern that is fired on animals in full motion contains several hundred metal parts. Not only are animals killed, but large numbers of animals are not killed, which then flee in panic. They die a painful death by perforated intestines, a broken jaw or torn legs. Hunters say to hunt with respect for the animal and say that we can rely on their grazing principles. Those who study these principles must conclude that these rules and traditions are mainly aimed at keeping the sport around the hunt as beautiful as possible. When speaking of "respect for the wild," it is mainly meticulously described how the wild should be treated respectfully when it is dead. The rules do not primarily focus on animal welfare. For example, hare hunting may only take place in a form of drifting hunting, according to the rules of pasture. So the animal has to run. It must not be shot still, because then the romantic idea that the hare could escape will be met. "It" hare, say hunters. This means that the chance to shoot or injure the animal is greater, but that's part of the game. It is made impossible for non-hunting nature lovers to fully enjoy nature, because the animals become unnaturally shy as a result of hunting. They've almost all become nocturnal animals. In addition to pleasure hunting, hundreds of thousands of animals are killed every year, such as foxes, swans, deer, deer, boars and geese. Without any independent investigation, it is claimed that they cause nuisance. The fight against animals is carried out with the most serious means of seriously affecting their legal protection. Officially these animals are not huntable, but despite this legal protection, half of all red deer, 70% of all boars and 30% of all nodules are shot by hunters every year. Officially, it's not "hunting," it's "population management" or "shooting with the shotgun." That's a semantic trick that gives hunters free play in practice. Hunters are at the same time animal police, prosecutor, judge, executioner and supplier of the pooper. That's too many interests. The Secretary of State has just legitimized this in the new Nature Protection Act. In practice, the provinces sail blindly on the advice of the hunters: how many animals must be shot and which ones? This is the explanation why plans are being made for the shooting of huge quantities of animals over and over again, without any sense and necessity being even slightly clear. This has got to end. How does the secretary of state of a party who says she's against the pleasure hunt still manage this? We await his answers, in particular on independent investigations into possible harm caused by animals. He hasn't answered that yet. We've got a motion passed that's gonna take care of this. I would like to hear what is going on here. Swans are legally protected and cause little damage. Yet thousands of swans are shot with hail every year. Swans are too big to be killed directly through hail. Today, this year, images of shot swans falling out of the sky and crept on the ground with sprinkles of shattered wings. No one intervenes, not even the Secretary of State. He's shifting his responsibility for the swan hunt to the county. The brave veterinarian who made images of the abuses during the swan hunt is now being prosecuted himself, despite footage that convincingly shows that not her but the hunters are blamed for everything. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I can say that I have only been able to name the tip of the iceberg in terms of the great suffering caused by animals. But I am a happy man when the Secretary of State only addresses the problems that I have identified and which are very soluble, at last also from a government that says that the limit of the permissible has not only been reached, but has also been far exceeded. That alone supports my view that I also believe that the bio-industry, where there is so much animal cruelty, should be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u340	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand, including the Animal Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u341	Mr. Chairman. Those who experience the future as a counterwind run in the wrong direction. Nature is soon expensive. In neoliberal thinking, you can't let it smoke the chimney unless you cut down the trees and cook up like biomass in coal power stations. If we summarize the nature debates during this cabinet period, the sound was mainly: be glad that I do something and count your blessings, otherwise nothing would have happened. That suggests that nature would be a luxury: as long as we stand red, we cannot pay attention to green. I can say that this is the most precious misconception of our time. Nature not only has value in itself, but is also the basis of our existence. We cannot afford to deal recklessly with ecosystems. The jovial humour of free market thinking is that, when you build a road through a forest, you immediately have two forests: smaller forests, but still, and then also forests where you can easily go by car to eat pancakes or other recreational activities. Are those still nature reserves? Or are they amusement parks along the highway? It's just missing a clown and a ballbox. The poles with the yellow M, hanging places for horror clowns, are already creepy close to our most beautiful natural areas. The Secretary of State seems to have, above all, had the task of becoming an advertising man for nature. That is also a conscious misconception. Dutch people already love nature. 93% consider it important to protect existing nature. Two-thirds say nature goes for short-term economic gain. Nature doesn't need a marketing man, it needs a patron. There is therefore no shortage of supporters of nature. They are ample in the majority, among ordinary people then. The nasty thing is, the enemies have stronger weapons. And the Secretary of State isn't sticking a finger to stop that gun clatter. The three biggest enemies of Dutch nature are: manure, poison and towed nets. In other words: intensive livestock farming, intensive farming and intensive fishing. Where intensive agriculture appears, it is biodiversity that disappears. The animal species that are increasing in the countryside are pigs, chickens, goats and cows, all behind closed doors. The population of other species, such as meadowbirds, is declining as a result of flying. What looks like green pastures is, in terms of biodiversity, an agricultural desert: increasingly monotonous and increasingly large-scale. Herbal and flowery grasslands made way for overfertilised billiard sheets, on which literally all life has been mowed away or sprayed flat. Dutch farmers are world champions of efficiency and sustainability, as is often claimed. In practice, this means in particular that we produce a lot, a lot of manure on a very small surface. Last year it was over 76 billion kilos. That's over 4,500 kilos per Dutchman, even if you count all babies. There are more than 25 bathtubs per person. Strikingly enough, it was in 2012, at the start of this cabinet, still 71 billion kilos. 5 billion kilos of manure, or 500 kilos per Dutchman, was added in the three years that there was a Party of the Labour Governor on agriculture. And at the end of this year that will be even more. Catching up with the CDA on the right with a dung wagon: that's handsome. But it's also an achievement that doesn't help anyone. Except for dung beetles, this huge Dutch dung heap is a disaster for nature. The result is that large sums of money, which are intended to invest in nature, go to getting rid of the mess that the livestock industry and also the poisoners discharge into our ecosystems unpunished. The dumping of drug waste in nature areas raises great concern and indignation in the Chamber and in the State Secretary, which is quite rightly so, but I ask: where is the indignation about the non-stop pollution of nature by livestock farming? Where is the punishment for premeditated inflicting serious harm with lasting consequences? Despite all the warm words about nature, the answer is: there will be no punishment for livestock farming. There's gonna be a reward. There were already substantial subsidies. And now there is also the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, the legal fog bank that is being sold as a natural protection tool, but which in reality is intended to grant new permits for megasths and other spoilers of rural areas and biodiversity. It is a perverse system, linking necessary remedial measures, such as moorlands plaguing, with the right to pollute even more. In the Schoorl dunes, entire forests are destroyed, to make room for mega stables. That's deposition space, to stay in the euphemist jargon. The Party for Animals is the only party that has opposed this with a hand and a tooth, the only party that has not been sewn into the suit by the cleverly chosen frame that the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen was intended for nature restoration. It's hardcore agricultural interests that make the difference here. It is the livestock industry that determines how the natural budget is spent. It was clever, you know, by the CDA; you have to give them that. It was performed by the VVD, which of course was enthusiastic, and the Labour Party, without criticism, we can say. And it was supported by not only the usual suspects PVV and SGP, but also GroenLinks, ChristenUnion and D66. That is the compromise that nature has nothing to do with, not to say: the rain in the ammonia drup hits. This whole nitrogen approach is based on the idea that there is something like the right to pollute, a right to irreparable damage to nature, which is ours all. There's no such thing as a right. If you broke something at our house that wasn't yours, your piggy bank would be turned around and you'd be nice enough to replace it. Those are excellent standards and values, if you ask me, which also apply neatly in civil law. Why should livestock farming not have to comply with these standards and values? The Secretary of State took everything out of the closet this year to promote nature. That was unnecessary, because citizens know how to appreciate the value of nature very well. They call contact with nature the most important thing in life, after friends and family. It is industrial agriculture that hates nature, and especially the Nature Protection Act. So if the Secretary of State had had to make a fervent plea somewhere about the importance of our nature, also for healthy agriculture, then it would have been in all those consultations with LTO. Anyway, he didn't. And of course, it's a smart move. To distract the attention that you are sacrificing nature to the livestock industry, you will soon organise a competition "beautiful nature reserve of the Netherlands." That'll make it sound good. I repeat, nature does not need advertising, but protection. Of course, you can organize a public election... always fun, always good... but it gets a little weird when you celebrate a party in honor of heavily damaged ecosystems and if that same party was not meant in any way as a start shot to actually protect that so acclaimed nature. Also a bit alienating: the largest nature reserve in the Netherlands, the North Sea, received no attention at all. The most species-rich nature reserve in our country, Saba, neither. "The sea has told me that she is tired, that she is very bad," Paul van Vliet sang already in 1971. Things haven't gotten much better since then. The underwater world is invaluable. Three quarters of the oxygen we breathe, we owe to the sea, the lungs of the earth. So public interest. But the North Sea is treated as if it were private fish water. Intensive fishing can carry out unimaginable predatory work in the sea, which is actually ours all. Boomkotters with their heavy tug chains literally tear the bottom life to pieces when catching flatfish like tongue, scar and plaice. That's like cutting down a whole forest in one go to catch the deer that live in it. Apparently, everything can be destroyed for fishing. 70,000 tonnes of fish, or hundreds of thousands of fish, are pulled out of the water as useless by-catch and then thrown back overboard seriously injured. It is unnecessary to mention that most of these fish do not survive. The North Sea, our largest nature reserve, is in critical condition. And when the sea says she's tired, that means that our country is in very bad shape. The sector is trying to overcome growing concerns about the state of our seas and oceans with soothing labels. "Sustainably caught fish" they call it themselves. That's fishermen's Latin. Sustainable fishing and fish farming are as fables as animal-friendly or animal-friendly farmed fish. Vacuum boats drag their nets through the water for hours until the fish trapped in them are completely exhausted and have to give up swimming. Many fish burst swimming bladder and other intestines. The fish that are unlucky to hang in the back of the net are crushed to death under the weight of their fellow species. The fish that survive all the way on board provide an endless death struggle until they eventually choke in the air or are stripped alive. These are living beings with consciousness and feeling. Only the simple fact that they can't scream doesn't give us the right to let them end horribly in the event of capture and slaughter. Who actually thinks it's justified to literally choke beings with feelings and consciousness? What about the Secretary of State? I can't imagine. What about cooking lobster alive? I ask him: why should the obligation to spare animals a long and stressful death struggle not apply to marine animals? The sea deserves protection. The fish and all the other inhabitants of the sea deserve compassion. The Party for Animals wants marine reserves in which the underwater nature is effectively protected and an end to devastating fishing and inhumane killing methods. And let us not repeat our mistakes: stop the new bio-industry called fish farming. The way we deal with animals has a big impact on everything that matters to ourselves, even if they are small animals like bees, bumblebees and butterflies. The large-scale use of poison in common agriculture is the death blow in the heart of the ecosystems on which we are fully dependent. Without these pollinators, no living nature. Without these pollinators, no food crops. 70% of the supply at the grocery store will disappear. "Compare apples and pears" becomes an expression of lost times. Our country is in the top three countries with the highest poison use in the world. All this agricultural poison not only causes damage to nature, it also causes health damage to the people who live along the fields and to the school children who sometimes cycle to school three times a week by the poisonists. The Party for Animals, three and a half years after its establishment, continues to receive reports every week from people who are deeply concerned about what the poison use of their agricultural neighbor does to their health and their children. The Secretary of State must and can subtract the poison from our country. We have to move from the usual intensive agriculture to nature-inclusive agriculture without poison and fertilizer, but with healthy soil, water and air. That is the salvation of the bee, of the meadow bird, of the farmer and of the citizen in the countryside. The fact that we do so much damage to nature is a symptom of the dominant human-centre thinking, which must be exchanged as soon as possible for a much healthier world view. This also applies to the arrogance with which people think they can turn nature into their own interests, by breeding animals as an accessory, for example. In many dog breeds, the appearance is so extreme that the animals suffer severely. 40% of rashes have one or more hereditary disorders. Of course, that doesn't say much, so I'll give you an example. Cavalier King Charles-spaniels. These are the dogs that Pim Fortuyn had.They are now so far bred on small skulls that their brains don't fit in anymore. These animals have their whole lives, nonstop severe pain. A label is not going to put an end to this consciously created dog suffering. This will only end if the government bans breeding with congenital abnormalities. Serious animal suffering is also the order of the day in the pet trade. Busloads of puppies come every week from Eastern Europe, where the mother dogs have to throw nest after nest in filthy lofts. Criminal and lucrative over the backs of defenseless animals. The Chamber supported a motion from the Party for Animals, but the implementation of the Secretary of State is far too weak. If you want to stop the trade in puppies from bread farms, you have to make sure that a veterinarian carries out the chip duty in front of the dam. What we need are stricter controls and much more enforcement capacity, a life-long restraining ban for Dutch breeders who only do it for money and a ban on the sale of animals on Marketplace and other auction sites. Why does the Secretary of State keep making it so easy for the bread farmers to deal in sick puppies? Trade in endangered species is also an inconspicuous form of crime. The Netherlands has the doubtful honour of being an important port of transit for this illegal trade. Rare corals, reptiles and exotic birds are sold on a large scale at Dutch fairs, this week we could hear from Early Birds. This is unacceptable. The detection and enforcement of illicit trafficking in endangered species must be stepped up rapidly. There's been a long, very long, laughing about the animal police. The Animal Party came to the Chamber ten years ago with this point in its election programme, as did Mr Graus, who successfully introduced this into coalition negotiations in 2010. When the animal police were set up, the situation was not clear: the guinea pig police, while there is child abuse in the Netherlands! As soon as the short-term release of the coalition with the PVV was over, that party was revenged by drastic cuts in the budgets of the animal police. That was honor vengeance over the back of defenseless and innocent, severely abused animals. Then it is not surprising that more and more citizens are turning their backs on traditional politics because they no longer feel represented. Last week, in a conversation with the Veterinary Forensic team, it became clear once again that the way we deal with animals determines how we deal with people. Animal abuse is a bummer of a domestic violence alarm, child abuse, crime. The detection and punishment of animal executioners is very important for the animals themselves and for the people who are the victims of the same deranged behavior of the same perpetrator. The Animal Party wants animal executioners to be able to be traced, convicted and punished with a life-long restraining ban and appropriate penalties for the offences that they have committed in many cases in addition. Can the Secretary of State endorse its importance for animals and humans? Is he gonna work for that? A very effective way to protect animals and control the budget for enforcement is simply to end forms of trade or entertainment, or both, which you know are a breeding ground for animal suffering. How often do voluntary inspectors have to come up with footage to show that horses and ponies in horse markets are structurally exposed to abuse? Animals stand all day under stressful conditions on bacon-smooth pebbles or deep in the mud, are tied too short, are lifted on their tails, are beaten with sticks and have no drinking water. Traders are aggressive towards animal welfare organisations and make it impossible for NVWA to inspect. Some are so influenced by alcohol that they are unable to care for their animals properly. And yet those traders get the benefit of the doubt instead of the animals. Stop that reverse freedom thinking. Forbid those horse markets, now. Much animal suffering arises from ignorance, when people have started a pet without having any idea of what such an animal needs in terms of circumstances and care. We call that impulse purchases. Anyone who wants to prevent animal suffering and spreading asylums, and that seems to the Animal Party to be more than sensible, will ensure that impulse purchases of animals no longer occur. Well, the industry with which the Secretary of State does business, that of the animal specialty stores, in his trade magazine leaves anyone who is the author of the dubious book of Manipulating fun to learn. It seems to be a bestseller, explaining in detail how a family that comes into your shop and doesn't intend to buy a rabbit for the daughter, can still put on a rabbit. The tip is literally: focus on the father, not the mother, because the father moves faster. Don't you think it's time we put something in the opposite direction? The Party for Animals wants a plan of action to combat impulse purchases. In the Netherlands cats are shot with license. How the hunters can distinguish between a house cat that takes a walk and a stray cat is completely unclear. The countless poignant stories of people who lost their cat to a hunter show that they can't do that. Apart from that, shooting cats is not a solution to any problem. What it is is this: morally indefenable, especially after the advice of the Animal Affairs Council earlier this year. If you want to keep the stray cat population in check, this advice writes, you can do so with a closing identification and registration system. But what does the Secretary of State say? He says he doesn't. In addition to this opinion of the Animal Affairs Council, there is an approved motion of the Party for Animals and the Labour Party, and yet the Secretary of State njet says. Can the Secretary of State explain that to you? No chip cats, but shoot them? Finally, the test animals. If it becomes clear somewhere that change requires leadership and that it cannot be left to the sector itself, it is in the laboratories in which live animals are experimented: animal testing. The song has been saying for years that animal testing is only done if there is really no other way, that alternatives are used and that the number of animal experiments is kept to a minimum. The reality is that the standard is that animals are tested. The whole system is stuck in a method that can be proven to produce poor results. 80% of the medications that seemed to be a good idea after extensive experiments on animals fall off when tested on humans in a clinical trial. It is therefore in the interests of humans and animals to come up with better techniques. However, the forerunners who see changes for themselves are stuck in the gravel bin of the system, which is decorated on the animal test as the golden standard. A standard with a very black edge, I'd say. The change everyone wants must be enforced; it is as simple as that. We cannot accept that the number of animals that die in experimental labs increases every year because we refuse to ban genetic engineering on animals. Every year, almost half a million animals are born into genetic experiments as miscarriage and then killed. Unacceptable, Mr. Chairman. Anyone who doesn't change direction ends up where he's on his way. The route of plan A leads to a little festive destination. The Animal Party says it's time for plan B.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u342	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-22.u343	The Secretary of State is going to answer Thursday. Then let's just move on. I would like to thank colleagues and the Secretary of State.
