ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	The questions are addressed to the Minister of Finance, but they have not yet been identified. We'll wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	We had suspended for a while, because the minister hadn't arrived yet. Meanwhile, Mr. Roemer was eager to sit in box K, but he still has to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The SP has just said in the corridors: people have to wait for a mortgage and we have to wait for the minister, but well. Luckily, the housing market has attracted and people are afraid to buy a house again, something they have often postponed for years. All this leads to investment in construction and expenditure on the house, which in turn contributes to jobs. People want to know if they can get a mortgage. Uncertainty or an unnecessarily long journey will not help. As far as we are concerned, banks must make every effort to meet demand. They say they can handle the hustle and bustle, but the practice seems a lot more uncomfortable. The new European mortgage directive, which will enter into force shortly, does not seem to help either because banks will have to make a binding offer immediately. Last March, the VVD therefore tabled a motion to consider how to shorten and simplify the flow of mortgages. Even then, the VVD received many complaints from people about all the paper packs and the long lead time of the mortgage application. What possibilities does the Minister see for reducing and simplifying the mortgage path? Has the Minister already spoken to mortgage providers and consumer organisations such as Eigen Huis Association, as the motion asks, and what has come out of it? How quickly can people see concrete results?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries refers to a motion, I believe, which calls for a zero measurement. This zero measurement was about a new directive that had yet to come into force. The current problem of media attention, namely that people have to wait a long time for the bank's green light to get into trouble, has nothing in itself to do with the new directive, which is likely to enter into force in July. Mrs De Vries is concerned about the new directive: what is it all going to mean, is the problem not getting any worse? We have said that we are going to design a zero measurement in consultation with relevant organisations, so that we can monitor whether the problem becomes even more serious. In some regions, the housing market is going very fast and people think they have to decide very quickly. I say "means" because I think that care should be at the forefront on all sides, including the buyers. That means you have to prepare in time. You must have timely contact with the bank and you must have prepared the items you need to deliver, for example your income data or your annual figures if you are a vzzp'er, on time, so that it can go quickly if you want to buy a house. It is too often that people are being hunted down and have already concluded a provisional purchase contract without proper preparation, sometimes even without a debinding condition that funding should be regulated. With that kind of risk, people have to be very careful. Preparation is important, so is care in the banks. If there is a problem with the capacity at the banks, they will have to put people in there themselves. Some banks advertise with a very quick treatment of the mortgage application. They're really gonna have to make that happen. Then we'll just have to have people around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	I agree with the Minister that the banks themselves are about staffing. As far as I'm concerned, they have to do their best. Only advertising with a mortgage within a week is not enough. The Minister is talking about zero measurement. That is fine in itself, but this signal confirms that there is more to it. We have previously received complaints about the routes, the lead time and the packages of paper to be handed in. This makes the trajectory so long that people become uncertain about it. That doesn't help to keep the housing market on steam. In addition to this zero measurement, will the Minister also take up the other issues and see what is possible to shorten and simplify the progress? The notice also showed that mortgage providers generally need more time forzzp'ers and entrepreneurs. They also have to deal with delays more quickly. The VVD has already drawn attention to this. It was always said at that time that that was wrong and that it was all possible. However, it is very acidic that a zzp'er sees a house that he wants to pass by his nose, just because he is a zzp'er and therefore has to follow a longer journey. What can the Minister, in consultation with mortgage providers, do to ensure that the mortgage application can also be completed more quickly for these specific groups? What is or can be created within the supervisory framework? Apparently it is not easy to work with the perspective that one would like to look at, with the perspective statement. Turns out that's a lot more work than a normal mortgage. It seems to us right that this important group should be able to count on clarity within a reasonable period of time if they want to have a mortgage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	I believe that these groups must also demonstrate and justify, also for themselves, whether they can actually carry the mortgage requested. That's why banks ask to show back from a few years what is actually earned as a self-employed person, so to show annual figures. One also looks ahead, at what the potential of the person concerned is and what can be earned in the coming years. What can we do? That's two things. The first is that we can ensure that all consumers, includingzzp'ers, know very early what they need to show to be able to apply for a mortgage, so that they are well prepared. If the opportunity arises to buy a property, there is no need to waste time. The second is really the responsibility of the banks. They advertise with speed and then they have to make it happen. Otherwise, at least for the time being, they're gonna have to take that ad away for a while until things are in order. I cannot accept that responsibility, but Mrs De Vries does not ask me to do so either. I'm going back to the motion one more time. We will not just do a bare zero measurement. We will do this zero measurement to see whether it should be so complicated and whether there are elements that could be faster and simpler, where possible with fewer papers and so on. The framework is, of course, the new directive that we have adopted together. We are going to keep an eye on whether this will lead to unnecessary increase, as has already been promised to Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to look beyond zero measurement, but also how we can simplify concrete things and improve the administrative burden on the mortgage application process. We will continue to follow him critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	And I'm the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	It is well known that banks almost do not honour SME loan applications. 46% of applications for appropriations are rejected. Now that the economy is getting a little better, we also see that the procedures for mortgage applications are getting longer. Carefulness is important. Is the Minister prepared to publicly appeal to the banks to have a social role as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	I often call banks on that. However, banks must also be careful. So I'm not gonna impose on the banks I'm not gonna do that in SME loans either, because they have to provide mortgages. They need to assess those individually and show and justify to individuals that they can handle the credit or the mortgage. Can we go faster? No doubt. There's just a huge question right now. A lot of people want to transfer their mortgage because of the low interest rates. That, of course, causes a lot of work pressure. However, people simply have a right to it and banks are cooperating in it. If that requires more capacity, it just needs to be turned against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	When the banks went bad, society, politics, reacted very quickly and helped. We've made sure the banks are still standing. It is now time for these same banks to take that arrogance off and say: we are going to help the people who now want to convert their mortgages. Is the Minister really prepared to go further than these soft anointing words about having to decide for themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	No. I have had this debate with the DENK Group before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	We don't have a group-DENK in the Lower House. It is the Kuzu/Öztürk group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	Oh, isn't that a fraction? I'm gonna keep learning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	The Minister's ahead, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	I've had that debate with the group before. They think I should intervene with banks and force them to provide credit. That would be extremely unfortunate and extremely dangerous. We have seen in the past that there has been enormous pressure and that credits have been granted far too easily. I'm in favour of careful delivery. A lot of people have been left behind with big debts and problems, and there are companies with bankruptcies left behind because they had too many debts. We're not gonna do any of that. What we're going to do is a careful assessment. We do it quickly and carefully. In this way banks can perform their social tasks very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	If you're gonna make a promise, you're gonna have to do it. Banks promise to settle a mortgage within a week. That seems to me to be a promise that is almost impossible to make, but if you promise, you must also keep your promise. I would also like to draw attention to the other side: brokers and people who risk taking irresponsible risks in a somewhat overstretched market, who do not accept non-binding conditions, who compete for consumer protection or who sometimes already bid on a house, while the partner has not even seen the house yet. How does the Minister view that? What is the role of the banks in this? How do we prevent whole groups from being on the blisters because their house is underwater?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	I think everyone is wise to take a little more time and be careful. The same applies to real estate agents. Many provisional purchase contracts are a standard contract of NVM. It should focus more on the debinding conditions of funding. There are too many people who, under the pressure of the excited sales market, allow those debinding conditions to lapse. You should really be advised against this, by the bank and by the broker: you should not do so, you should simply include those debinding terms and if there is a problem later with the bank or if it takes more time, you should be able to rely on them. We really need to look again at the way in which this is advised and the possibilities for the debinding conditions of financing in that standard purchase contract. I don't want people taking too many risks under the new hype that is beginning to arise in some cities, just under pressure of time. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you.
