ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome Mrs Yücel in Box K. She is supported in the defence of her initiative bill by two acquaintances for me: Manon Westenbroek and Rob de Geest, both policy officer in the Labour Party. I would also like to welcome them. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first-term reply of the initiator and the second term on the part of the Chamber. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Yücel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think it is an honour to be here as a representative of the people with an initiative law that directly affects the motivations for which I have gone into politics: freedom, equality and equal opportunities for all. For the same salary, women work 64 days a year longer than men. That is still the situation in the Netherlands a century after universal suffrage came into force and sixty years after we ended the practice of dismissing female civil servants the day after their wedding, after all they became housewife and mother. In the meantime, we have achieved a lot, but women are still getting less pay than men for the same work in 2016. This to the great surprise of many people, of women and of men. Women must, of course, earn the same as men in equal work. That's why I'm filing this bill. It is time to treat women and men in the same way 36 years after the introduction of the General Law on Equal Treatment, not only in laws and on paper, but also in practice for men and women who work. Enforcement of the General Law on equal pay for women and men in equal work is extremely difficult, as there is little or no understanding of the data that clarify remuneration inequality at organisational level. In practice, we continue to suffer from unequal pay for men and women in equal work. Decade after decade, women are still paid less for the same work, according to various studies. In 2014, CBS showed that women earn about 17% less in equal work than men. Of these, some 8% to 9% are inexplicable in the private sector and 3% to 4% in the public sector. Many people in the Netherlands are outraged by these national statistics. "That this can still be done in the Netherlands," almost everyone thinks right. The enforcement of laws and regulations is only possible if the right data is available to all. This law provides for this: to make any remuneration inequality transparent and transparent. Only then can employers and workers together overcome this injustice, often for women. Change starts with making the problem transparent and thus discussable. That is why I am proposing that the works council in a company should be given the right each year to see the anonymized data on the remuneration of women and men within the organisation. On the basis of this knowledge, the works council can determine whether there is inequality of remuneration. Companies will then have to make active policies to help reduce pay inequality. The works council must agree to the proposed policy. The results of this policy are published in the company's annual report. The undertaking must explain the difference and explain how efforts have been made to promote equal pay. In this way, the employer, together with the representation of the employees, can make active policies to reward women and men for equal work in an equal way. We also hear that it's just a hassle to keep track of everything and that women themselves need to negotiate better. It turns out it's not that simple. Under the law, negotiations should never serve as an excuse for unequal pay. In addition, women's negotiating position only improves if they know what their male colleagues are earning. A company can also tackle inequality only if it knows how big the problem is within the organisation. Equal pay for equal work, for men and for women, just as it should be in the Netherlands: that is what matters to me. I now turn to the specific answers to the questions raised by the various groups in the first term. A number of political groups asked a question about what the legislative proposal specifically focuses on: addressing gender pay inequalities in equal work or addressing the phenomenon of pay differentials more broadly. Our law focuses on the inequality of pay between men and women in equal work. According to the law there is unequal pay if an employee earns less compared to a colleague of the opposite sex while he/she does the same, equivalent work. The pay gap or the pay gap is also used by many in this discussion, which deals with the difference in the average salary of men and women. The pay gap is influenced by many more factors than unequal pay. For example, part-time work and the fact that the level of employment that women have is often lower. This initiative legislative proposal aims to make remuneration inequality transparent and discussable, so that the company and the company discuss the policy to be made that provides for the reduction or elimination of inexplicable remuneration inequality. That is what this law focuses primarily on. The general law on equal treatment has proved insufficient, because nothing is regulated in that law. With this initiative proposal, I want to align the principle of equal pay, which is enshrined in the Equal Treatment Act, with the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	I thank Mrs Yücel for this answer. It is also one of the central questions in my first-term contribution. Is it true that the figures with which Mrs Yücel opens her speech and which in her words lead to displeasure are indeed about the differences in remuneration and not about the discrimination in remuneration? The latter has been banned for a long time, and it is also punishable. In the written period, Mrs Yücel talks about inexplicable remuneration. That's a third term, which she introduces herself. How does this term relate to the two terms she just spoke of?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Those are justified questions from Mr Heerma. There's a lot of research. This week it emerged that professors are missing millions, or at least being unequally rewarded or scaled down, and yesterday a study showed that women are actually asking for bonuses, but they are not getting them or are getting them less often. The Loonwijzer is also investigating. In my law, I have based myself on the investigation of the CBS. The 17% I mentioned in my introduction relates to the pay gap. It appears that between 8% and 9% of these are inexplicable in the private sector. The public sector accounts for 3 to 4%. This law focuses on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	So this law doesn't cover a very large part of the pay gap. Its focus would also be the reward distinction. Do the proposers conclude that this 3% or 8% should be a legally criminal pay distinction, or only that we do not always have an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is true that this law focuses primarily on the elimination of this inequality of remuneration, because such a thing should not be allowed in the Netherlands. Why is the current situation continuing? Because it's not all insightful at organizational level. This law ensures that this is understood at organisational level, so that employers and employees can work together. No one in the Netherlands wants to preserve anything that is punishable, and in a moral sense they do not want women to be rewarded less. Of course, this law may give rise to a discussion or discussion between works council and employer about the pay gap in a broad sense. I would welcome that, but this law does not focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	Of course, we have to fight pay inequality. The question is whether the figures that this law is going to bring up for the works council will actually make that clear. If I haven't understood correctly, I'd like to hear it, but I think it's only possible to get figures at macro level, which are therefore not traceable to people. In order to know if something is a reward inequality or reward difference, you will really need to understand personal characteristics of persons. A very concrete example: I can have two employees, both of whom are women and equally old, but of whom one performs better than the other, so that I simply give that one a higher reward. How do the figures, which this bill will bring out and which will be presented to the Council, provide insight into those specific points of remuneration inequality? Is that really possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mrs Schouten is asking a fair question. This will only be possible if it is made clear which part is inexplicable and which part is very explainable. The Human Rights College has carried out a number of investigations into this, such as, for example, I say, from my point of view, an investigation into a lot of hospitals in 2011. So the college has taken up this challenge. It has developed a tool to get this insightful. For example, pay differences may arise due to work experience and training requirements that certain people better meet; these are very relevant motives on which appreciation or reward can be based. However, the study carried out by the Human Rights College on these hospitals, but also recently by the research into colleges, shows that there are always inexplicable differences. By making this insightful, insight can only be gained. The Human Rights College, as well as the Loonwijzer, have tools to help employers and employers to get this understanding with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yeah, I think it's the tools. I'm sure it's my limitation that I'm not quite clear about this yet, but what kind of information does such an or get? As I understand it, he gets information about men versus women in the same line of work. Isn't that something like that about the inequality of pay? The differences in remuneration can also be caused by those other reasons, right? How does an or get a specific insight into this? We must look at this at an individual level, but we must not do so. What exactly does that law lead to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	It's anonymized data. It can't be that the individual data becomes insightful to the or-members, because I value privacy. It's anonymized data. According to the General Law on Equal Treatment, there are explainable differences which the employer, together with the works council, finds to be related to training, work experience, exceptional benefits or additional benefits. There is always a direct relationship with the work to be done. If the differences cannot be explained by these kinds of motives, there may be differences on the basis of gender and this should not be the case under the General Law on equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	That's not exactly what I'm asking. I get the distinction. Again, I strongly oppose the fact that there is pay inequality. The question is whether an or gets that over the table with those numbers. That is my specific question. The data received is anonymized at macro level. You're gonna have to look underneath to see if there's any specific reward inequality. How am I supposed to see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	The works council receives anonymized percentages of the function groups. That alone does not, of course, provide any insight into the pay distinction and the explainable and inexplicable differences in it; Mrs Schouten is quite right about that. The employer must be able to justify the difference: what part is explainable and what part is not explainable? This is where the or, through the training he will receive from the umbrella organisation of the works councils, needs to develop expertise so that he can make an assessment of this and check whether the information provided by the employer is correct. The discussion between the employer and the works council will then be about the inexplicable part. The percentage itself does not give that insight. There must be an analysis, an explanation of the origin of the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr President, thank you for giving us every opportunity to have a good discussion on this important legislative proposal. Mrs Yücel started out very passionately: justice, equality, equal pay. You might think that in 2016, with ten ministers and secretary of state of the PvdA, it can't be so that even in the ministries, in the official services, women earn less than men. Has Mrs Yücel asked the leaders of her own party how they could not have dealt with this inequality in four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	We base ourselves on a 2014 investigation. This shows that in the public sector, including ministries, there is still a remuneration inequality of between 3% and 4%. That's a lot better than in the private sector, but it's still a payoff that shouldn't be allowed. Ministries also have the problem that there are currently no methods to make an inexplicable distinction in remuneration understandable. This law also helps the public sector, including ministries, to understand pay differences at organisational level, gives the incentive to make policies to eliminate the differences and gives the works council the right to consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	In other words, Mrs Yücel says that the PvdA ministers have not been able to tackle this inequality and that a law is needed to really tackle it. That also says something about her own ministers. Anyway, apart from that: you'll only be a migrant, you'll only come from Turkey, Morocco or Suriname and be a woman. Then the inequality in pay is three times more than the inequality between men and women. We know that officials with a migrant background earn about 8 to 10% less. The injustice for someone with a migrant background is therefore even greater. The PvdA has a few months left with its ministers. That may not be the case in a few months. Why doesn't Mrs. Yücel take that piece, this severe inequality, into her bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	First of all, I would like to respond to the comment that ministers would not want to address this forbidden pay distinction. Of course they do. Our ministers are just people, like everyone else. I believe that there is almost no one in the Netherlands who would like to maintain this. We now lack the opportunity to understand it at organisational level. And if the problem is not understandable, then we can call for national statistics, but then we cannot get to work at organizational level. This law helps to make it clear and discussable. This law contributes to addressing this inequality. Then I come to Mr Öztürk's second question. This law focuses on the pay distinction between men and women. There is no distinction between immigrants and natives. We have immigrant women and men and we have native women and men. It's all gonna come up on its own. It's all gonna come out. If you address a reward distinction based on inexplicable differences, the possible underpayment due to both being a woman and having a migrant background is automatically taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	It was four times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	What was four times?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	A predecessor of mine was also allowed to interrupt four times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	No, I'm not. But it doesn't matter. Ask your question
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	I hear someone behind me saying "inexplicable differences." Yes, very good! Mrs. Yücel says it's gonna come up on its own. Then why doesn't she mention it in her law? Why doesn't she just say: we don't just want to deal with the difference between husband and wife, but we also want to look at ethnicity? It is precisely in this way that you can tackle that injustice that every civil servant feels and does not dare to discuss in his own official service. I spoke to one of those officials yesterday. Does Mrs. Yücel dare, or is she not allowed to? Or is this bogus legislation to show towards the elections that the PvdA has done something about payment inequality between men and women? Why doesn't Mrs. Yücel address the real inequality? Or isn't she allowed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	I believe that this bill is an inclusive bill. It speaks of men and women, not ethnicity, and does not, of course, distinguish between, for example, native women and immigrant men. I believe that this legislative proposal is so inclusive that the possible unequal pay without any clear statements by women with a migrant background is taken on its own. Mr Öztürk spoke about fewer opportunities for people with a migrant background to access the labour market, about discrimination in a broad sense. That's a problem where he finds me by his side. That really is a problem. He has tabled an amendment. I'll look into it with great interest anyway. I am also going to look very closely at the implications for our proposal. However, as I have said, I believe that this is an inclusive legislative proposal. That is why I did not take it myself, because everyone is taking it, but I am going to look at the amendments. By strengthening the role of works councils in legislation, this proposal creates scope for raising awareness and discussing possible inequalities and for active policies to reduce potential remuneration inequalities. This initiative law requires an active involvement of both the employer and the employer in order to reduce pay inequality. The monitoring and understanding of the real inequalities within a company triggers the discussion about solutions and gives more insight into the inexplicable differences, precisely by discussing this with each other. The current legislation does not yet provide for this. This law does not primarily address the pay gap in the broad sense. In practice, I can well imagine that the discussion about pay differences in the broad sense will also take place because of part-time work or women in lower positions, but this law focuses on pay discrimination that is prohibited and behind which there are unexplained reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	A remark in relation to Mrs Yücel's point that this would strengthen the position of the Council. The Or's are given the task of doing something about illegal pay discrimination on the basis of the understanding of pay differences. That's quite a job you're putting there, because you're certainly only giving information about the pay gap. Works councils already have a difficult task. The question arises, if you continue to "strengthen" it, whether the task of the or-members will not be so difficult that in a number of years no one will be willing to sit in an orbit. Why don't you take a look at the reward distinction with the help of understanding the pay gap? Does Mrs Yücel see the risk that the paradox will arise that you will strengthen an or, but thus make the system top-heavy and untenable in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	That's a fair question. This bill asks the company, the company itself, to make it clear which part of the remuneration distinction is due to inexplicable differences. That pre-work will be done by the organization, by the company itself. Then something about a job increase of an or. I've spoken to many or-members, but also the dome organization. They say they can work with this. However, they are asking for this and I assume that this is going to happen, and that also for the training, training and training are very much focused on the further strengthening of the expertise on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	The Council of State is also saying something about it, but it is quite possible that some of the inexplicable pay gap is not directly unauthorized remuneration. It's simply inexplicable. Does that mean that if there is an inexplicable difference in remuneration, the applicant will be given the task of combating it as if it were an illegal and illegal discrimination against remuneration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	I, too, have read the reaction of the Council of State, but the General Law on Equal Treatment is very clear: all the differences that have a direct relationship to the performance of work relate to explainable differences. If it cannot be explained by motives that have a direct relationship with the work to be done, then the pay distinction is prohibited. The College of Human Rights has also examined many cases. The College uses that reasoning as well. The law is really clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mrs Yücel has just said that research has already been carried out into the pay distinction, the pay difference and what is illegal. I think it would help if Mrs Yücel could show the Chamber examples of companies. What data should then be provided to the or? How can the or on the basis of such data distinguish between ordinary pay differences and unauthorized pay differences? So perhaps Mrs Yücel will be able to provide such examples to the Chamber in the follow-up to the debate, so that we can see more about it. If that doesn't happen, it's gonna be a bit of a struggle. What exactly do we need? How do we get that insight? That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	I think this is a very good proposal from Mr Van Laar. I will send this to the Chamber in writing so that Members can take it very well. I also refer to the various research reports of the College of Human Rights. However, I will draw on these cases in a targeted manner and give the Court written information on how this is made clear in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u30	I would like to come back to the question of whether our ministers have done enough to address this gender pay gap. The World Economic Forum draws up the Global Gender Gap Index every year. With the economic component, the Netherlands has decreased from place 24 to place 34. This happened during the period when Mrs Yücel's ministers were in the cabinet. The Netherlands has therefore fallen ten places on the world ranking list while there were ten ministers of the Labour Party. According to Mrs Yücel, legislation must now be introduced. Is it not true that in recent times these ministers have done nothing about this, or have made the situation worse than it already was?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u31	Today, the bill is ahead of us. This shows that I, a member of the Labour Party Group in the House of Representatives, am concerned about this and try to reduce the persistent inequality that still exists and that affects women in this case. I come with an initiative proposal. The cabinet has also taken various measures aimed at encouraging more women to the summit. For example, the leave arrangements have recently been modernised by Minister Asscher in order to better reconcile work and care. He could have done that with the support of the Chamber. These are a few examples that show that we are pulling it hard. Emancipation is a long-term issue. We've come a long way. We are also trying to tackle persistent problems. We'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u32	I find it very noble that Mrs. Yücel is doing this. I think it is very noble that Mrs Yücel raises the issue of inequality and brings forward a law on it. That's not the point, and I think we all agree on that. The point is, however, that Mrs Yücel must also be honest. Her cabinet and her minister could have changed this and didn't. I will also put these questions to Minister Asscher later. The Netherlands has fallen from place 24 to place 34. Mrs Yücel says: emancipation is a long-term issue. However, if we continue to do so, I do not think we will see it anymore. It is therefore a question of Mrs Yücel not only bringing legislation here now, but also of doing what is necessary in her own group and in her own party to ensure that this does not happen. Isn't it scandalous that the Netherlands has dropped from place 24 to place 34?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u33	In fact, Mr Öztürk underlines the need for this bill. At the moment, there are persistent problems that we cannot solve with the current instruments. The general principles that we have in our laws and regulations, and the policies that have been in place so far, have not proved sufficient to solve these persistent problems. My motivation for submitting this initiative law is the will to take a step forward in resolving these persistent problems. With this, I want to give everyone, in the public sector, in the private sector, the opportunity to take action at the level of the organisation. Another example: when it comes to more women at the top, there is a target policy, but that is not a good thing. Of course, the Chamber still has the right of initiative. I'm working on an initiative proposal for an enforceable female quota.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u34	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u35	I can tell that Mrs. Yücel means well. But she can also, like Diederik Samsom, the leader of her political party, just say sorry? I'm sorry it didn't work out in this cabinet. As Diederik Samsom said in a song: this is Louis' fault. Mrs Yücel can say that Lodewijk Asscher did not make it on this point? It can show how honest it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u36	When it comes to legislation, I think it is very important, whether I am standing here or behind the interrupting microphone, to talk about the legislative proposal before us. In this case, it is an initiative law aimed at removing a prohibited remuneration distinction. We are not doing justice to this bill if we go in all directions in the debate. I can discuss this with Mr Öztürk for hours, but at the moment we must do justice to this bill. At least that's my conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u37	Those last few sentences from the performer are a bit of a shame. She says: we can only talk about this bill now, and everything that comes with it is not going to be discussed today. Mrs Yücel thinks this is a very important point, and we share that. But what has been done about the fact that women are much more likely to be at risk of poverty? What did the Cabinet do about it? Why do women with low incomes often have health problems? Why is the employment rate in the Netherlands still relatively low? I have mentioned examples of this, such as mass redundancies in home care, mainly involving women who have to turn in their salary or be dismissed. If Mrs Yücel here speaks nicely about a stronger position for women in the Netherlands, I do wonder what she has done about it over the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mrs Siderius is also trying to broaden the debate. This will undoubtedly be done with good intentions, because I take it upon myself if the position of women deteriorates. But these are debates that we have and will continue to have in detail at other times. We will defend the measures taken in this regard. But that's not what this law is about. This law is about dealing with pay discrimination that is inexplicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u39	You only want to talk today about pay differences. On the website of the Labour Party you speak a lot of language: you do not accept that women are in a disadvantaged position in the Netherlands. If you really don't accept that, what are you going to do about it? I think it is cheap to say here: we have done our best, we will defend the measures of the cabinet, but today I just want to talk about pay differences. That's unworthy of the Labour Party, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u40	Once again, an initiative law is before us today aimed at abolishing pay discrimination. I think we share these principles. It does not do justice to this issue, which we have been talking about for decades, when we are talking about all the problems in the world, not speaking properly about the step we can take here. I would very much like to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u41	You have a point of order, Mr Van Laar?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u42	Yes. I've been in trade-k myself as a petitioner. At such a time, you stand there as the author of an initiative bill. You are not standing there on behalf of the Cabinet or Labour Party, you are standing there as an individual MP who has tabled an initiative bill. I would ask you to lead the discussion in such a way that Mrs Yücel can speak as the petitioner, that the Minister can represent the cabinet and that I can speak on behalf of the Labour Party. Then the roles are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thanks for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mrs Yücel herself is talking about defending cabinet policy in trade union K, so it seems to me that I can say something about that. I have one final question for Mrs Yücel. What is the point of speaking today only about pay differences between men when tens of thousands of women in home care have been fired or have had to deal with wage dumping, a lower salary? These women no longer have a job at all, but Mrs Yücel says: we are not talking about that for a moment, we are talking about the differences. What good is it for these women when we talk about pay differences? Absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u45	I continue to believe that Mrs Siderius of the SP shares the principle of equal pay for equal work, that she believes that we should comply with the General Law on Equal Treatment and that we should respect these principles in practice, in the workplace. I continue to believe that Mrs Siderius agrees with that. I myself think it is important to take a step in this direction. That is why I have tabled the legislative initiative proposal and I am now debating it with the Chamber to try to convince it of its usefulness. Practically, it is not possible to incorporate all world problems into one law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u47	Questions have also been asked about the precise possibilities offered to the works council. Is this a matter of competence that the works council already has, as the Council of State states? Or is it a far-reaching addition? This law, as I have pointed out several times, focuses on the inexplicable remuneration inequality. Without insight into inequality, a works council cannot act at this time. It is therefore necessary to know what men and women earn on average for equal work in the organisation. It will be different for each company, but insight into this is crucial. This insight is obtained through publication in the annual report, after which a company, together with the works council, can develop policies to identify both the causes of inequality and to resolve inequality. If a change in the remuneration system is part of the policy to resolve inequality, point (c) of Article 27 (1) shall apply. In Belgium, legislation on the pay gap and remuneration inequality goes far beyond the publication in the annual report. D66 referred to this and asks why we do not opt for a solution similar to Belgian legislation. The present initiative law seems to us to be a good tool for taking major steps in reducing or removing pay inequality. I therefore believe that this is an adequate measure. I also think it is appropriate for the Dutch culture that the employer, together with the employees, should take the lead in dealing with the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u48	I did ask about that. I still wonder how Mrs Yücel's current legislative proposal can really gain insight. Suppose it is included in the annual report, what are the consequences of this report? What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u49	Your colleagues have also addressed the question of how the insight is obtained. I will provide you with more detailed written information on this matter. That seems necessary, given your questions and wishes. I see it in front of me that the initiative law ensures that the subject is at least on the agenda and that the figures on pay differences are initially collected by companies through the system. That is possible, because it is evident from conversations I have had with organizations that do the salary administration and so on. I also spoke with Actal and with VNO-NCW and FNV. All the representatives of that organization say it's a matter of making a program once and putting ticks on it. Then you get the reward difference in view. The company, the entrepreneur, must then see for itself what part of the remuneration distinction is prohibited because it is inexplicable. That's what the General Law says about equal treatment. This will be the subject of a report, possibly with policies proposed by the company. Then the discussion with the works council takes place and all this information is included in the annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u50	I understand that this will be included in the annual report. I think that's a good thing. I also welcome the fact that it is made clear, although it may be difficult to see exactly how you do that. Mrs Yücel now says that policy is then being made about it. But in what way is that enforced? After all, if the inexplicable differences are explained, you know what caused them. What is then done with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u51	I believe that Mrs Dijkstra was also at the first hearing in this Chamber when we talked about emancipation issues. The hearing was about equal pay and the pay gap between women and men. I remember that round table conversation like yesterday. That conversation inspired me to make this initiative law. All those organizations who know about it spoke of awareness, awareness, awareness and of talent, assignment, organisation level. This may help to remove the remuneration distinction which is prohibited from the inexplicable part of the contract. At least we have to deal with that. If I were a member of the works council, I would certainly take the pay gap with me in a broad sense. But this law doesn't focus on that. By getting the figures intelligible, getting the employer's analysis on the table and putting this issue on the agenda of the works council, insight can only be given. If there is that insight, policy can be based on that. I'm not an expert, so I'm really gonna leave that to the works council and the companies. However, I can imagine that unwittingly I say "unwittingly"...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is how I can see it, but I say again that I really think this is the responsibility and expertise of companies. In addition, I believe that I should give the opportunity to companies and employees themselves to implement this properly, with all the experience that can also be offered by the College of Human Rights. I have also been asked whether this article also provides a basis for companies to have mandatory policies on equal treatment between men and women in terms of pay. Do they have to make that policy? If so, in what cases? What is the legal basis for this? The legal basis for men and women is already laid down in the General Law on Equal Treatment. That has been mentioned before in my contributions. However, this does not appear to be sufficient to resolve the inequality of pay between men and women in the workplace. That has not been enough for those hard-working men and women. In the General Law on Equal Treatment, we have laid down the principle that an employer and a works council must ensure that discrimination does not take place. But as long as that is not transparent at organizational level, the problem is not on the table and at least the attempt to solve the problem cannot even be made. This law therefore focuses on getting on the table and getting insight into the possible remuneration distinction within companies and companies. That's how we're trying to work out a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u52	This was my question, but I meant this one a little differently. I'll try to explain. The petitioner amends the Works Councils Act. She actually says to the or: you receive the information about pay differences between men and women, point. Based on that, the or says it's not going well. But where in the law has it ever been arranged that a company should collect that information and that a company should make this policy at all? The author only regulates that the information is given, but if we have not arranged for that information to be collected, it may not be based on anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u53	This is indeed a relevant question. It is very common to collect information within organizations. This does not always have to be based on a specific law which states that these data must be kept up to date. In this case, it is no problem at all. According to VNO-NCW and the salary administrators, it is a matter of making a program with a few ticks in it. Then you'll have a printout. Getting insight into the differences and getting the distinction with the interpretation of the employer and the works council are really not the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u54	Now we're just gonna play the legislator here. It's not about whether it's a problem or not. The point is, it just has to be in line with the law. I haven't been able to find out that this is true. The petitioner only regulates that the works council receives information, but if there is no legal basis to actually collect that information, so that the button is pressed at the HR department, I think what we're dealing with here is a bit of an empty shell. Then a company can say: who is forcing me to collect the information at all? This doesn't matter if it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u55	I had and am convinced that this law provides for this, but I have heard Mrs Schouten very well. I will look very closely at whether I can add an extra hook with which I can remove Mrs Schouten's concerns so that, in her words, it can also have a more legal basis. I assumed in this bill that if one is obliged to put figures on the table, to give an explanation and to make policies, it is a matter of course to collect those data, even knowing that in practice it is really not a problem, as I hear from all relevant organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u56	I'm just trying to think along with Mrs. Yücel. Since Mrs Yücel provides for information to be given in the annual report on this subject, it seems to me that it is clear that the employer must provide this information. I shall look at Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yeah, that's right. I therefore also believe that this law provides for this. It is more a question of whether it is clear enough. In any case, I will see if I can get it even clearer for Mrs Schouten in the written information I will send to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u58	Before proceeding, can you tell the Chamber how far you are with your speech and how your speech has been built up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u59	I have a small page and a half with a normal font.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u60	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u61	In relation to explainable or inexplicable differences in remuneration, the applicant cited equal treatment under the General Law. She said that she has studied the opinion of the Council of State well. On the basis of the abovementioned investigations, the Council of State states that there is no evidence that inexplicable pay differences also indicate a prohibited distinction: "This inexplicable part may result from factors that are not measured or not sufficiently detailed'. Isn't it true what the Council of State writes here? That's my first question. The applicant indicates that it is not a problem at all to have those figures. This is mainly about the pay gap, but specifying the causes of these differences and finding out whether those differences are explainable or inexplicable can produce a lot of work if the applicant's theorem is that everything that is inexplicable is therefore an unlawful pay distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u62	What is inexplicable at first instance may be explained by motives which are not recorded but which can be explained clearly and convincingly and which have a direct relationship with the work to be done. Then it's explained, too. Could you briefly repeat your second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u63	In my view, the Council of State is right to point out that inexplicable pay differences may also arise from the investigation because things are not measured or not sufficiently detailed. If the performer says that, because the difference is inexplicable, there is by definition an unauthorized award distinction, the burden of proof for measuring and explaining everything increases enormously, doesn't it? That evidence isn't just available, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u64	We have agreed in the Netherlands that we have a general law on equal treatment, in which we have laid down principles. I am very pleased with that and I am sure that Mr Heerma is also happy with that. That law is very clear: no distinction must be made, inter alia on the basis of sex; it is about much more, but in this case it is about sex. The law lays down the law, and that is also what the College of Human Rights says that the employer himself has the active task of ensuring that there is no discrimination, but also that the works council has a role in it. If we ask companies to implement a law and if we offer tools for that, can't it be that you can get away with "we have to dive in and that takes time"? I have spoken with Actal and I am also really sensitive to administrative burdens, because we should not make it unnecessarily difficult for employers. I have taken a very close look at this in the Own-initiative Act. Actal told me that it would be easy, that it would not create an enormous administrative burden, that part of it would be part of the regular work of companies and works councils and that part would be related to software, additional consultation, policy analysis, insight and publication of the annual report. It's not that bad. If this takes a few extra hours a year, I think that in the Netherlands both employers and all people really do want to bring this principle into line with the workplace in practice. I have been asked whether this article also provides the basis for obliging companies to have policies on equal treatment between men and women in terms of pay. Should companies make that policy and, if so, in what cases? What is the legal basis for this? As you can see, I have taken a number of questions together to do justice to the essence of each group's question. The legal basis for equal treatment between men and women is already laid down in the General Law on Equal Treatment. This does not appear to be sufficient, because the persistent pay distinction, which is not explainable, continues to exist. That is why, once again, my answer is that this law provides for a supplement for the or to take decisive steps to resolve this inequality after understanding of remuneration inequality and also under this initiative law with the enterprise. I have spoken to many employers and many people around me, but nobody in the Netherlands wants this problem to continue. Everyone thinks: that this can still be done in the Netherlands! Whether you think left or right, progressive or conservative, it doesn't matter: no one thinks this fits in with the Netherlands. I am convinced that we can take a step if you make this clear and discussable. It would certainly be worth something to me if we could take this step. Then there is the question of how mentioning this percentage contributes to solving the problems that the initiator wants to address. I believe that this has been discussed before, but I will repeat it for the sake of completeness. Calling the percentage contributes to solving the problem by providing insight into the problem with its interpretation, because it is part of it. It thus also helps the company and the works council to assess at a later stage whether the policies they make to resolve remuneration inequality are successful. It should also be published in annual reports. I cannot imagine a company in the Netherlands that will include a percentage of the number of men and women and the pay distinction that is prohibited for both men and women in the Netherlands, often this is true for women and will not mention active policies or explain the lack of progress. No one wants a situation like that to survive. This is a natural incentive and this law provides the tools to solve this together. I believe that I have answered all the questions, at least I hope so, and I come to a conclusion. It is my conviction that, together with this law, we can contribute to promoting a solution to gender pay inequalities in equal work. Maintaining the principles of equivalence is important, but practice in some companies has proved to be unwieldy. This legislative proposal makes it easier for companies and employees, more transparent and more insightful, making it possible for women and men to earn the same amount of work. At the moment when we have the opportunity to bring closer to principles that we all share, I shall be testing them throughout the Chamber and also the objective as such, with a clear measure provided for in this law, we must certainly not fail to do so. This is my deep conviction and it is my motivation for this bill. I note, however, that valuable suggestions have been made and comments have been made. I heard them right. I would therefore like to respond in a letter or in a letter of amendment to all wishes and suggestions and to respond as much as possible to the wishes and questions that still exist to further strengthen the legislative proposal, but also to further broaden the scope for this legislative proposal. At least that's my bet. I can therefore further clarify the terminology, but I have had very few questions. With this hand-out to the Chamber, I conclude my answer for this moment. For me, the most important thing is that we can take a step together to tackle the persistent issue of unequal pay for equal work in the Netherlands, often for women. Equal pay for equal work for men and women, that's what we're all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u65	I wrote the whole recess to an amendment I tabled yesterday. I haven't heard from Mrs. Yücel. I'd still like to hear what she thinks about that. Mrs Yücel was just talking about a letter of amendment. I'm curious to see exactly what's going to be in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u66	I saw the amendments come along; that was yesterday. I saw Mrs Siderius's on Monday, but I do not know exactly. I really want to look very carefully at all the amendments and come back to them in my second term. Then I can make a good and well-balanced judgment. As I have said, I will look at all the suggestions and wishes very openly; they can contribute to the goal that we all share. I have a very open view of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr President, on a point of order. I thought we were going to do the second term today, but I understand from Mrs Yücel's words that we are not going to do the second. What will be in the letter of amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u68	I had already agreed to provide written information. Examples from practice can provide insight into how to deal with the explicable and unexplained remuneration inequality, according to the Human Rights College and according to the General Law on Equal Treatment. More questions have been asked. I would like to put that information to the Chamber in a letter of amendment. At least that seems useful to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u69	I'm sorry, but I'd like a clarification. A letter of amendment means that Mrs Yücel is going to make legal provision for this bill; she is going to do so legally, in articles of law. It is now discussing the question of answering questions. That's a whole different thing. I have a bit of a problem: what can I expect from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u70	In the explanatory memorandum we explain the articles of law. It may be that there is still a need to complement that. Mrs Schouten referred to the absence at all of a legal basis for keeping the data. I'm just going to look very closely at whether things are indeed strengthening the law. They are all valuable suggestions and comments, which I really want to take a serious look at. If they contribute to the goal we all share, they can be reflected in a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u71	I would like to thank you for your answer. One thing's a little unclear for me. I have now understood from Mrs Yücel that it is the company itself that has to collect the data and give an explanation: what is different, what is inequality? But what would encourage an entrepreneur to name that he creates inequality? After all, that is a criminal offence. I mean, the part to test that is supposed to be the one you're supposed to give to the orb, isn't it? My dilemma with this law concerns the feasibility, not the purpose. Does Mrs Yücel really expect companies themselves to say 'from our data that we are doing something criminal' and report that to the or? What's that thought based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u72	We have seen this in the hospitals that have volunteered to participate in the study by the Human Rights College and in the colleges of applied sciences. Companies just want to get an insight into this, as long as it comes on the agenda, as long as there are tools for it, as long as the noses can point in the same direction. In the Netherlands I have not encountered a company that deliberately wants to put this problem under the table. I say it with a small margin, but we all know that unequal rewards do not happen consciously in almost 100% of cases. There is no employer or P&O in the Netherlands, I hope and think, who thinks: I'm going to pay that woman less. Companies want to understand this for themselves. The fact that this has been achieved has been demonstrated by previous investigations by the College of Human Rights. However, I can imagine a few things about companies that you might wonder if they are putting honest data on the table. But the works council of such a company should have feelers in its organization, and it should be convinced of the explanations given. He can check with individual employees and ask them: what about on your team, do you recognize this image? In all such actions, privacy can be fully guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u73	If all the companies want this so badly, what will they do now to do this? I believe that this legal basis is necessary because it is not self-evident. In that case, there is a question. If you're making yourself dependent on such a thing, let's just call it "wrong enterprise" in order to get your data, I don't expect it to just admit that she's committing criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u74	The problem is that at the moment this is not transparent at organizational level. As a result, it is not taken up by employers. It is precisely this law that provides for insights at organizational level as to whether there is an inexplicable pay distinction. That is precisely what gives the employer the opportunity to say: I do not want that in my company. And if he says he wants to, he'll have to talk to the works council, who probably won't take it. It simply needs to be properly implemented by law, so that we can help to eliminate this difference. I'm not so afraid of that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u75	Thank you for answering the questions of the Members of Parliament in the first term. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, in his role as advisor to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. I am sympathetic to the objective of the initiative proposal that is being discussed today. Indeed, it cannot be explained that women still earn less for equal work than men. The Cabinet therefore considers that the elimination of the still existing gender pay gap is of great importance for equal work. This is also included in the coalition agreement as such. Making agreements on pay is primarily a matter for employers and employees. Employers have doubts about the usefulness and necessity of this initiative proposal, while employees believe that it is important to ensure continued equality of pay and that this legislative proposal can contribute to this. Although the Cabinet considers the unequal pay of men and women for equal work to be very undesirable and therefore supports the purpose of this bill, it is unclear in its view whether the initiative proposal affects the underlying reasons for the existing inequality. In addition, the concrete impact of this proposal is subject to objections. For example, the cabinet has questions about the new reporting obligation in the BW, which does not clarify exactly what companies are required to report on. There is also a risk that employers will focus on compliance with the new obligations, rather than on the causes of the differences in pay. It is also important that this proposal is subject to significant administrative burdens. In view of the foregoing, the opinion of the Cabinet on the desirability of additional legislation to the Works Council Act on the promotion of equal pay is neutral. However, it is important to find a way of keeping the administrative burden as low as possible. The cabinet wants to discourage a new obligation in the BW, partly because of the problems of feasibility. From the CBS study "Equal pay for equal work? Jobs and wages in the public and private sectors," already cited by the complainant, show that there is still a gender pay gap: in business, the difference is adjusted by 8%, in the public sector, between 3 and 4%. An interesting development is that young women working in government now earn more than their male colleagues. The government also changes the wage gap from positive to negative only at a later age. In 2012, the government only earned women less than their male peers from the age of 39 years. In 2008 that turning point was at 33 years. This gives a cautious but hopeful indication of the extinction of pay gaps between men and women, at least in the government. At the end of this year, the Court receives the results of the CBS study on equal pay for men and women for the year 2014. In recent years, several actions have been taken to reduce or, if possible, eliminate the gender pay gap. Examples include facilitating the website equalloon.nl, the quickscan and research by the College of Human Rights among colleges, the organisation of the Equal Pay Days and the biennial research into equal pay. In May 2014, I sent the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan to the Chamber. It explains how discrimination in the labour market is addressed. It also contributes to reducing the pay gap, with three targeted actions aimed at further research. This is being addressed through dialogue with the social partners. For example, social partners have invested in training in wage bargaining in preventing and combating pay differences, the Quickscan of the Human Rights College and the Loonwijzer are actively brought to the attention of the grassroots and the diversity charter has been launched, in which organisations promise to improve diversity and to open themselves up to count on it. As the Chamber knows, all departments have joined in the meantime. In the autumn, a second progress report on the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan will follow, which I will send to the Chamber. Mrs Schouten first asked what is the legal basis for the conduct of remuneration policies. If a company does not have to pursue a remuneration policy, how can there be a right of consent? The right of consent is governed by Article 27 of the Works Councils Act (WOR) in respect of decisions proposed by the Entrepreneur concerning the adoption, amendment or withdrawal of regulations referred to in paragraph 1. To this end, Mrs Yücel's own-initiative proposal also covers the company's policy of equal treatment for men and women for all elements and conditions of remuneration. If an economic operator fails to reach such a proposed decision on the determination, modification or withdrawal, there is also no right of consent. In other words, Article 27 of the WOR does not therefore contain an autonomous obligation for the entrepreneur to come forward with such a scheme. Of course, the entrepreneur is bound by the legal requirements and obligations; the applicant also pointed out this. This obviously includes the prohibition of discrimination. However, in the current situation there is no independent legal obligation to conduct or have remuneration policies. However, Article 31b (1) of the WOR requires the entrepreneur to provide general information to the works council in writing at least once a year on the social policy he has pursued in the past year. This includes equal treatment for men and women, as mentioned in Article 28 (3) of the WOR. Thus, the entrepreneur can be addressed on that subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u77	I address the Minister in his role as an advisor. Does he consider that the obligation to provide information to the works council is sufficiently secure in this way? In fact, the WOR regulates the monitoring of that information, but not the right to information or the collection of information itself. According to the Minister as an advisor, is that right sufficiently protected by law, or should an additional provision be included?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u78	In my role as advisor, I chose to advise the Chamber neutrally on this point. I have a number of doubts as to whether the intended effect will be achieved, but I really leave it to the Chamber to consider whether it has been properly designed. Mrs Schouten rightly pointed out in the first instance that there is no autonomous obligation to conduct such a policy. Nevertheless, it can always be discussed through the detour of the report on social policy. Then the right of consent can become relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u79	I do not want a value judgment; I simply want to know whether we are legally not giving a right of consent to something that does not need to be provided. However, I understand from the words of the Minister as an advisor that this information could be brought up through the link of social policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u80	The social policy pursued, including the relationship with men and women, will in any case be discussed and discussed. The bill does not create an independent obligation to conduct such a policy. That would also be a very far-reaching obligation. The Works Councils Act means that at the time of such a policy, there is an arrangement that applies the right of consent. This is an addition to the existing situation, which will not be helpful in all cases. Nor do I have the impression that the author has argued that. I say this in order to take into account the significance of the legislative proposal. It therefore looks at those companies which are subject to such a scheme. That is the right of consent. For these other companies there is no right of assent, but at least there is the possibility of discussing the subject on the basis of social policy. This means that the works council has a less powerful weapon than in the case of such a policy. The law does not create an obligation to conduct or adopt such a policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u81	Then I would like to know whether the author can explain how many companies have similar policies. What if only 25% of the companies on which this bill is based have such a policy? Then we know that there is the right of assent, but that this is still unclear at 75%. I hope that the author will be able to include that information in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u82	I note that the author has heard the question and nods "yes'. Mrs Dijkstra asked about privacy. With regard to the proposed employer's obligation to inform the or annually on the level and content of work-conditional schemes and agreements by different groups of persons employed in the undertaking, the addition of Article 31d (1) to the addition that a percentage of men and women is indicated for each group, it is particularly important to provide the data on these scales within the function groups anonymously. Smaller companies where you can imagine that it can easily be traced back to individual workers or workers are excluded from the scope of the initiative, because works councils are required for a number of 50 or more employees and because Article 31d of the WOR applies only to undertakings where as a rule at least 100 persons are employed. The proposal lays down a new obligation under Article 391, book 2 WFD for companies to include information on gender pay differences in the management report. There is an exemption under accounting law for small companies to make a management report. This exemption applies to companies meeting two or three of the following criteria: a balance sheet total of up to 6 million, a net turnover of up to 12 million and an average of 50 employees. The inclusion of this information in the management report therefore does not apply to small businesses and will not, in principle, be traceable to individuals. With that, I do not think that the privacy concerns about this bill should be concentrated. Mrs Voortman asked me in the first place whether I am prepared to investigate the remuneration of female occupations in sectors in which many women work. Research is already under way. On 18 January last, the research report is "Does a man deserve more?" of the College of Human Rights and the ministries of OCW and SZW. This report examines the equal pay of men and women in colleges of applied sciences. This shows that colleges employ more than 30 levels of remuneration which can lead to unequal pay for men and women. I refer to the determination of the initial salary based on salary negotiation rather than relevant work experience, the provision of salary guarantees and the granting of no or insufficient money in promotion. The pay gap between male and female within the five function groups examined ranges from 0.2% to 4.3%. Moreover, this does not mean that there is also a pay distinction which is contrary to the law. As the applicant has already pointed out, the General Law assumes equal treatment based on non-justified differences. You can't tell that from this investigation yet. The Minister of OCW has indicated that she is talking to the sector about how the sector can proceed with the outcome of the investigation. The biennial study conducted by the CBS on pay differentials between men and women also focuses on pay in sectors where women are relatively high and in companies with a high number of female employees. Finally, Mrs Van Ark asked about the added value of the initiative legislative proposal. As I indicated, the cabinet supports the objective of the initiative proposal, but there are questions about the effectiveness and the underlying reasons for the existing remuneration inequality. If the Court were to decide that legislation on the promotion of equal pay for men and women is necessary, I would like to highlight a number of points. The new reporting obligation in the BW would be more feasible if it became clear that the reporting obligation arises when there is a difference in pay between men and women in the same function group and not when there are individual pay differences. Such differences should then be explained. Even if the proposal is amended on this point, there is still concern about a significant administrative burden for medium-sized legal entities, while we do not believe that it has been made clear how the proposal contributes to the elimination of unequal pay. The cabinet is considering adapting that part. The WOR shall not apply to the Ministry of Defence and its institutions. The reason for this is the special mission of the Ministry and the demands it imposes on the deployment of military personnel. The rules of the Ministry of Defence are laid down in the Decision on Defence Participation (BMD). Those rules differ only from the WOR to the extent deemed necessary or desirable. Nor does the WOR apply to public academic hospitals referred to in the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act, the Academy, the Royal Library, the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, the judicial officials working at the Supreme Council, the members of the Council of State, the members of the General Court, the National Ombudsman and the Deputy Ombudsman. Addressing the pay gap is one of the priorities in the EU strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015. In the Recommendation on Strengthening the principle of equal pay for men and women through transparency, the Commission drew attention to this issue. The Recommendation aims to give new impetus to reducing unjustified pay gaps between men and women and includes a wide range of measures that Member States can take. The recommendation is not binding. Member States are free to follow the recommendation. Member States have informed the European Commission of the measures taken and the guarantees that the Recommendation will be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u83	The minister says he's done all kinds of things to deal with pay inequality between men and women. Research has been done. There's a diversity charter. There have been meetings. But after four years you have to be able to answer, not only to the Chamber but also to society. A number of studies nevertheless show certain results. In the Gender Gap Index of the World Economic Forum we went from place 24 to place 34 when it comes to the economic component, including pay. So we've dropped ten spots. The result of all the Minister's actions is that nothing has been achieved. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u84	I believe that Mr Öztürk and I agree that combating labour discrimination is of the utmost importance. The problem has not been solved in a number of years. We adopted an ambitious action plan in May 2014. That's what we're doing. There were a lot of actions in there. Some actions included legislation, some focused more on cultural change and others changed government behaviour. I think it is very important that we continue to do so and that we keep looking at where we can get a little bit more on top of it. In the autumn we will have a new progress report and then we can see with the Chamber what else can be done. However, we agree on the importance of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u85	In this case, the Minister is here as an advisor to the Chamber, as this is an initiative legislative proposal from a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u86	You rightly say that, Mr President, but a colleague of ours must table a bill because the present cabinet has not been able to solve the problem. I think that citizens should know why we are using all our resources and energy today. That is why I am asking a second question. The Minister also notes that the number of top women in business is falling. We see that the actions of the Minister and his colleagues in the last four years have only made things worse. Does the Minister agree that this legislation does not really provide a solution, but that we can change it? Or does he say: I should have taken it even harder in the last four years and I shouldn't have started it in 2014 but preferably in the spring of 2013?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr Öztürk, this is really a debate on an initiative proposal by Mr Yücel. The Minister is now here as an advisor to the Chamber. There will be plenty of debates in which questions of this kind will also have to be addressed. I am just trying to give the context so that we do not have a different type of debate from the one on the agenda. I say that out of respect for the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mr. Chairman. I am also looking for a link or a link between Mr Öztürk's speech and the subject we are discussing here. I hear a number of things that touch them. Mr Öztürk would have liked to have seen the Action Plan on Employment Discrimination that I presented at the beginning of 2014 a year earlier. I totally agree with him. I think it would have been much better if we had been with all sorts of things much earlier, but fortunately we are doing so now. We are working on it in terms of implementation. We will then continue to see what else can be done. I think Mr Öztürk's support for the action plan is heartening. He then stated that the limited number of top women had to be accounted for. I agree with him, but I think Mr Öztürk also knows that I do not appoint top women at the top of companies. This is not how the Dutch economy is organised. I find it very strange that the number of top women in the Netherlands is so lagging behind. I note that Mr Öztürk is also in favour of equal treatment for women. I think it's a good thing to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u89	The consultant has given very valuable information about the bill. The Chamber has also made several suggestions. The applicant has pledged new information. She will also study on a possible letter of amendment. It seems to me appropriate to suspend the examination of the bill now. I think the Minister was done with his advice. Then we can start the second term of the Chamber at a later date, namely if the letter and the letter of amendment are there and if there is a response to the latest information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u90	Actually, you're making an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u91	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u92	Then I'll see if there's a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u93	I agree with the order proposal. I think it would be very good for the applicant, Mrs Yücel, to reconsider this and to take into account the opinions of the Members of Parliament and the consultant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u94	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u95	I can count, but I find it remarkable that, when asked what the applicant is going to think about and what suggestions she is taking, there will be no answer. I would like to do the second term today, but I understand that the majority sees it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u96	Support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u97	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u98	Support for the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-3.u99	There is a large majority in favour of holding the second term at a later date. In any event, this brings us to the end of the first term of office of the initiator. I would like to thank the initiator, Mrs Yücel, and the Minister.
