ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u1	There is a speaking time of four minutes per group. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. In September last year, the Central Administration Office announced that some 7,000 people had to pay for their own household assistance, guidance and daily spending. There was no fuss about that back then. Fortunately, there was a majority in the Chamber who wanted a debate. In the meantime, we have continued to recall to get up-to-date information and figures. Three times we got a letter and three times the information we asked for was brushed away. So three we got a "nice weather" letter, without the correct or full numbers, without sufficient amounts mentioned or cleaned away in such a way that a nice story could be made up around it. What the Secretary of State makes us believe is that it's all okay. A stacking invoice is not new again such an annoying concept over more than two four-week periods. Two thirds of people pay the lowest own contribution. It is then €19.40 per month. The stacking invoice is then €155,20 over eight periods. Before that, the Secretary of State arranged a payment scheme. So what you're complaining about was the spirit of the letter. However, the reality is slightly different. First of all, it's a lot of money if you only have to live off an AOW and so on tens a week and you also have to pay your regular invoice next to your stack invoice. Secondly, with his new Wmo, the Secretary of State arranged for municipalities to be allowed to charge up to 100% of the cost for domestic assistance, guidance and daily expenditure. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to see that there are big problems ahead of you. Those problems are so great that many people are now completely abandoning the care they need. That's about a quarter, it's estimated. The Home Office website did help us get some numbers last night that we didn't get. Professionals talk about stacking invoices of between €700 and €7,000. A lady even goes from €0 to €12,000. This is also due to the hourly rates which can therefore be charged 100% at non-minimums. These rates have risen from the former fixed national AWBZ rate of €14.20 per hour, to variable rates per municipality that can reach up to €80 per hour. Why didn't the Secretary of State himself come up with these examples? What does the Secretary of State think of these rates and what is he going to do about them? I would like to say something about this whole thing to the Secretary of State. We are elected representatives of the people. Some of us even have preferred votes. I believe that Mrs Leijten even has an entire seat in her name. If we are asking for information, then we should simply get it, and then we should not be getting shined information. It's almost obstruction. Today we are discussing a government debacle with ICT, just like the Bulgarian fraud and the pgb right of withdrawal. It is again the result of too quick action and misjudgement, with very serious consequences for the victims. The big difference with the AWBZ is therefore not only that the State Secretary under his new Wmo arranged that 1. non-minimums 100% of the cost may be charged, 2. the fixed price of up to €14.20 per hour is loosened and 3. this prop in the chain was created by not being able to process the dizzying number of 23,500 product codes by his new Wmo. It's his new Wmo and it's his fault. It's his fault in every possible way, not anyone else's. And what does the Secretary of State do now? He comes with the familiar riedel: better information, phone calls, payment arrangements and so on. He doesn't understand what he should have started his letter with. With apologies! Followed by remission of all amounts above two invoices. That's what you do when you fail as a government. Then you draw a line and then you take care of your citizens. You don't kick their ass with a payment scheme for something that's not their fault, it's your fault. A reliable government needs to be reliable and a reliable government does not come up with the bill a year later. Let alone one of €12,000. This is class care: take care of the minima later, but no more care for those just above. The room has to stop this. It's too unfair. The Secretary of State must set maximum rates and maximum rates for own contributions much lower than that 100% under the Law and remission on more than two invoices. Stack invoices aren't supposed to exist. I'm looking at the VVD now, because it's about their supporters. I'd like to take over from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate today on delays at the Central Administration Office. Anyone who gets care, knows that if the letter from the CAK falls on the mat, it may be a big problem. People prefer not to get mail from the CAK, because that always means paying more. In the news was that 7,000 people are waiting for the calculation of their own contribution. They are therefore faced with a huge backlog and a huge total account. We still don't know if this is solved. The Secretary of State himself says that he doesn't know whether the CAK doesn't know either. Data would not be provided by municipalities. That's how we blame someone else. Are the problems solved now? I don't think so. In addition to the fact that each municipality's own contribution is different, there are a number of re-indications, new calculations and new tender prices to come. As a result, this bureaucratic circus is forever something that is lagging behind. In December 2014, someone paid €37.52 per week for daily spending. This became almost double in the beginning of 2015 a month later, i.e. €56.80. At the end of 2015, after the new indication, the person looked at at a weekly price of €127 for daily spending. That's a price increase of almost 250%. Where do you see anything like that? You can see that in Van Rijn's care. A court ruling has recently been issued on someone from Boxmeer who first paid €61 for the care, but who had to pay €500 for the same care since 1 January 2015. He objected and eventually got right with the judge. The own contribution was reduced again. What legal certainty does this rule provide for other people? Wasn't it the Wmo's intention that care should be organised on a small scale and therefore more efficient and closer to people? Surely the municipalities weren't supposed to transfer the austerity bill one-on-one to people who are dependent on care? I am seriously asking the Secretary of State because he says in answers and letters that he thinks it is undesirable that people should avoid care for financial reasons. He's looking at it and he's doing research, but I don't want a Secretary of State looking at anything. I want a Secretary of State to intervene. It seems to me most logical to suspend the collection of the own contribution as long as the consequences of the own contribution are investigated. It was not the intention to lay the bill on the citizens, because the cuts would all come out of the organisation. Moreover, the consequences may be so great that we will soon find ourselves in a huge mess, not only socially and morally, but also financially. What do we get if a mother can't manage to run her family anymore because the two-hour counseling she has in the week can't afford any more? I once presented that example to the Secretary of State. He didn't go into it at the time, but there are a lot of these examples. There are carers who don't let their partner go to day-use anymore and go down. What happens then? Then someone needs to be admitted. And we can all calculate that this is not only more expensive, but also a social tragedy. I ask the Secretary of State not only to look at it, but also to intervene. Mrs. Agema said you can charge up to the cost these days. So that's just private care. There are also municipalities that charge more than the cost. I have received examples of people who have a pgb of €962 per month, but receive their own contribution of €1.029. Can the Secretary of State explain that? What about the recalculations? The own contribution is calculated on the basis of data from two years ago. Because of the system, this is no different. But if your income has dropped, of course you want this adjusted. Does the CAK do that? Does it do that soon enough or are there delays there too? I am getting signals that people are not being reminded of this and that it is taking far too long, while they do have to pay the high contribution. I don't think that's what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Last year a lot happened in the area of care. In addition, there was a mismatch between data that healthcare providers and municipalities had to provide to the CAK. For thousands of people last year this caused them to suddenly get a very high bill over the last nine months. That was a bill sometimes worth thousands of euros. What's the latest? Are there really no more backlogs to work out? Are there any problems with ICT? Looking at the letter from the Secretary of State, I could not get a clear answer to these questions. The Secretary of State wants to prevent people from avoiding care or support when they actually need it. The research of Each (in) and National Government shows something worrying. It states that a quarter of the Dutch renounce care and support through the high own contribution of the Wmo provision. That's serious as people who need care or support. D66 therefore wants to know three things from the Secretary of State. I ask him to discuss these matters with the VNG as a matter of urgency. Firstly, people need to be explained how high their own contribution is, so what they can expect. Secondly, it is necessary to clarify the financial support that a municipality can provide. The municipalities received an additional amount from the Empire in order to settle a number of issues in the event of financial difficulties. Thirdly, municipalities have a moral responsibility. If a conversation shows that people do not care, the municipalities have the moral responsibility to check the consequences. So it's a triptych. People need to know how high the contribution is. They also need to know what financial support can possibly be arranged. Furthermore, the municipalities should be able to identify the consequences if someone refrains from caring. We ask the Secretary of State to bring this to the attention of the UNG. Another question is how are young people without income who also have to make their own contribution? There's an investigation going on. Is this part of that investigation? The Secretary of State's investigation was completed in October, but I think it is rather late, looking at the signals we have. I need an explanation, a factual basis. Can we not arrange this investigation more quickly so that we can perhaps have a debate on it with the Secretary of State earlier? Hopefully we will be able to be reassured and otherwise we will have to change the policy. The process of own contribution is complex and communication is inadequate. Sometimes there will be post-charges or a correction that will hopefully be noticed in time by the healthcare questioner. Mind you, then you also have to check your decisions and invoices. Stand on it! Can the Secretary of State make an effort to simplify this? The letters from the CAK are brief and concise. Then you think, "That's good." But those letters are full of professional language. Last weekend I myself studied a number of letters in preparation for this debate. It is really difficult to understand what you can expect in terms of your own contribution, while it is very important for clients to know what they are entitled to, what care they get and what they have to pay for it. In addition, I have received signals that the CAK sometimes sends an invoice directly, although no decision has yet been sent. Is that a picture? I've had quite a few reactions to that. How often does this happen? How can that be, in fact, because you have to have a decision first and then an invoice? In connection with the confusion over the own contribution, I also hear regularly that the decision with the maximum period contribution of the CAK, which is what you would have to pay to the maximum, is quite often different from the invoice that people receive. People are shocked by the decision, but the invoice is ultimately lower. Is it true that there is often a big difference between the decision, the maximum period contribution, and the final invoice? What can we do to improve communication with the people? Everything I just described actually indicates that the practice is more rigid than the law that we have agreed with each other. I would therefore like to hear whether the Secretary of State recognizes this and what he would like to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u5	A quarter of people don't care because they can't afford it. Does D66 think that's acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u6	I have just said in my speech that I find this very disturbing. That's not the purpose of the law we agreed on here. If people need care and support, they should get it. Like the SP, I'm getting signals about this, but I want a little more information than just those signals. That is why I think it is important that the investigation into the factual basis for this can be brought forward. I've asked the Secretary of State to take care of three things in the meantime. People need to know what to expect. If their own contribution is too high, they need to know what support the municipality can provide. Therefore, if they do not want care, the municipality has the moral responsibility to follow this well and to provide support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u7	You say it's disturbing. You make three demands and you want a quick investigation. Is it not wise to stop collecting the own contribution until it is clear what the consequences are? We've had a lot of debates here about confused people. In that D66 rightly said that this is due to the excessive budget cuts in the ggz. So what are we gonna see later because of this cut that's gonna keep people from caring? Are you prepared to actually take responsibility? You are one of the supporters of this own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u8	I think that is quite a lot of questions and comments in one interruption. I need to see what I'm taking out. I understand Mrs Leijten's request to us. If it turns out that people are really avoiding care because of too high their own contribution, then we need to change the policy. The problem is, however, that the research which should provide the basis for this is only in October. That is why we ask the Secretary of State if this investigation can be speeded up so that, if necessary, we can change the policy which the majority of this Chamber has supported. I am waiting for the debate and I hope that the research can take place more quickly so that we can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. An own contribution to a provision can in many cases be very reasonable. If people have enough money to pay a contribution, we think that's reasonable. It is very important that everyone knows what they are up to. At that very point, knowing exactly what our own contribution is in time, it has gone wrong very often. There are many reports that show that people only heard about their own contribution for the first time in 2015. Are those problems solved now? Does everyone know what he's up to in 2015? How can uncertainty about the level of the own contribution be avoided? There is therefore still a lot to improve in the field of information provision. Is it okay now? The letter from the VNG to municipal councils and the lectures of mayors and aldermen states that it is very difficult to determine what the own contribution will be at the kitchen table, i.e. at the initial talks. Is it not possible to take an extra step in the process, so that it becomes clear at an early stage in the process what people have to take into account? I did not see the role of the Tax Administration in the letters, while we received a number of complaints about the transmission of wrong income and wealth data, which are also very difficult to adapt. Can users of the Wmo expect new problems, because the indications and the level of their own contribution this year can be quite different again? We are also very concerned about the lack of care. Several colleagues have already pointed out that figures range from 25% to 30%. Do people get the care they need, or are they forced by the high own contribution to stop the support? Are municipalities sufficiently alert to this? Better information, that's the chorus that returns in all letters and reactions, as well as making better use of the possibilities that the law already offers to deliver customization for people who are not in the lowest income group in themselves. This category of middle income is just not poor enough to qualify for all kinds of exemptions, but may also be in serious trouble due to the accumulation of all kinds of own contributions. "Stapel invoices" is an annoying word that has been mentioned several times in the letter and in this debate. It is very nice that there are options in the laws to reduce their own contribution, but they must be used. Of course, this also lies with the municipalities. In the opinion of the Secretary of State, are they sufficiently aware of the possibilities that the law now offers? And are they actually applied in practice, so that we can avoid care avoidance as much as possible? To sum up, I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. How can we make a move to improve information? And how can we use more possibilities for customization?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. For a lot of people last year it was pretty scared. You will only get an account on your doormat in September in which you will be asked to pay your own contribution with retroactive effect for nine months. "A stack bill" is called in administrative jargon. It happened to about 7,000 people, an increase over the period before that. This is because the exchange of data between municipalities, healthcare providers and CAK was not successful. This increase is worrying, but the PvdA finds it at least as worrying that there has been stacking invoices for people for a longer time. Surely it must not be the case that people suffer from a lack of data exchange? How many people are we talking about now? Did this get people in trouble? Actions have been taken to improve the exchange of information. What's the status of the data exchange? The PvdA wants to get rid of the stack invoices. Does the Secretary of State not agree that it is not possible for there to be such a long period between imposition and collection of an own contribution? Wouldn't it be wise to work with maximum deadlines? There is also much to be done about the level of the own contribution. Especially those with a middle income pay a lot more. We are getting word, as was the case earlier this morning, that people are not caring. It cannot, of course, be that people do not receive care because they cannot pay their own contribution. What does the Secretary of State think of the ruling in a case against the municipality of Boxmeer that municipalities should ensure that people do not give up care for financial reasons? Is it true that own contributions are significantly higher because they were calculated in the AWBZ with fictitious maximum rates, but in the Wmo with the cost price? In the meantime, fortunately, there are municipalities that are taking action. For example, Zaanstad has chosen to apply the old AWBZ way of own contributions in the Wmo. Many municipalities use the nearly 300 million euros of former Wtcg funds to deliver customised services. That was meant to be. It is good that CBS, at the request of the Chamber, is investigating the wide accumulation of healthcare costs. Can the Secretary of State also include in this study the way in which municipalities have sought solutions, so that undesirablely high own contributions can be avoided? Sometimes people are surprised by the level of their own contribution and only see it when the invoice of the CAK falls on their doormat. How can people be better informed in advance so that they know how high their own contribution is? Finally, the PvdA wants to draw attention to its own contributions that families with young children have to pay when one of the partners unfortunately has to be included in an institution. There is often a single earner. Because then the collection income applies, this leads to higher own contributions. The CAK and the Tax Administration then sometimes advise to separate or separate from table and bed so that a lower own contribution can be paid. The PvdA finds that very undesirable: on paper you have to separate from your partner because otherwise you cannot pay your own contribution. We shouldn't want that. In the AOW there is a procedure to be considered as permanently separated if one of the partners enters an institution without having to really separate. It would be an outcome if you could also qualify for such a status for your retirement age. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u11	Due to the extremely high contributions currently used by municipalities, you also have a problem if one of the partners needs guidance or daily spending. So it is not just a question of a permanent partner living outside the house, but also of situations inside, which are also very poignant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u12	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u13	If I hear it correctly, the PvdA says that people are not supposed to give up care for financial reasons. Well, that's a nice thing to say, but what are we gonna do? 25% of people say they stop or reduce care. Don't you think we should stop the inning until the investigation is complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u14	I read Mrs Leijten's proposal this morning. Although it sounds sympathetic in itself, we should also be careful that suspension is going to create a reservoir of invoices, because we also want to get rid of them. We, as a Chamber, have unanimously supported the motion of the CDA or GroenLinks, asking us to examine the exact extent of our own contribution, also in relation to other concerns, so that we can also take targeted measures. Until then, therefore, I also refer to Boxmeer's statement "municipalities must provide tailor-made services, not only when it comes to granting care but also when it comes to people who are in trouble and who are unable to pay their own contribution. So something definitely has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u15	This is a bit of an innocence wash: we have supported a motion, so we are sorry, there is research being done, we want to know, but until then it's like "find it out." Surely that cannot be the message of the PvdA for all those people who are faced with such a high contribution that they go one day less to the daily spending or stop the personal guidance at home, with all the consequences of that? That can't be the message, can it? We've passed a motion, we're investigating it, so we're worried. But what do we do until then? We know that municipalities do not listen when the Secretary of State sends a note. We know that municipalities are making a significant financial loss if they reduce their own contribution. What are you gonna do for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think Mrs Leijten forgets the second part of my answer to her first question. Yes, we need to examine what it looks like, but municipalities have been specifically instructed not only to provide tailor-made care, but also to consider the possibilities for targeting people when their own contribution cannot be paid. This applies not only to low-income people, for whom we must, of course, be primarily responsible, but also to people who are just above them and who are in trouble. The municipalities with the former Wtcg funds have also received substantial money for this and municipalities must also do what they have a responsibility for. In that sense, I would like to repeat Mrs Bergkamp's words. Municipalities have not only a moral but also a legal obligation to pay close attention to this and to support the people well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u17	Last question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u18	Now the blame is again placed on the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u19	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u20	It is the PvdA with a PvdA Secretary of State who saddles the municipalities with an impossible discount. Many municipalities place them one-on-one on the citizens' sign. And what does the PvdA say? The municipalities need to do better. That is again washing hands in innocence. If a quarter of people stop caring or reduce it, it will have huge consequences. Then I know how to like the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u21	I cast that theorem far from me. I, too, have called for this concern and that customization for people to be taken care of. If Mrs Leijten does not want to listen to that, then that is up to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of October 2015, this debate was requested by Mr.Agema in response to a message that 7,000 people still had to be billed for their own contribution under the Wmo, while social support had already started earlier in that year. The Secretary of State has indicated that it is difficult to estimate exactly when all the information to be provided is complete and when the structural flow and numbers have been reached. According to the State Secretary, invoices for these contributions were sent at the end of September. The CAK indicates that, on the basis of intensive contacts with the municipalities and providers, there are currently no concrete indications that there are still outstanding accounts. The Secretary of State will continue to monitor developments closely with all interested parties. However, we still hear sounds that it is not in order. And we, too, would very much like to know what's going on. Are there still delays at the CAK, are they really being walked in and is there still a clot in the pipeline at the stacking invoices? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. People want to live independently at home for as long as possible. People are increasingly helped by family, friends and relatives when they need support and care at some point. For many people, however, there is a time when they have to rely on the facilities provided by the municipalities and on the care in the Wlz. As far as municipalities are concerned, this care and support must be accessible to and remain open to all. This means that municipalities should not charge such high own contributions that people refrain from care and support. There are noises that some municipalities choose to spare minimums when collecting their own contribution. However, in order to compensate for this, it cannot be possible to ask for a significantly higher own contribution to, for example, the middle class, on which this group of people renounces care and support on the basis of financial considerations. Mr Van der Staaij has just made a point of this. I'd like to join in on that. I'm asking the Secretary of State for a response to that. Moreover, it is completely undesirable for municipalities to earn their own contributions. The VVD has already made that a solid point. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it is going to correct municipalities that charge higher own contributions than the costs of the care itself? Have the overpaid clients been repaid? I'd like a response. This does not mean that there are no differences between municipalities in terms of the level of their own contribution. Municipalities have the freedom to organise care and support based on the demand within the relevant municipality and to charge their own contribution. That is a choice we have made here in Parliament. They also have a responsibility to inform people well and in good time, even before the provision is used, about the existence of their own contribution. Mr Van Dijk was right to point this out. Also in terms of the level of the own contribution, municipalities do indeed have a policy freedom. That is also something they should be made very clear about in this debate. It is not only a moral but also a legal obligation to look very closely at it. What's going on with that? Does the Secretary of State have that overview and indeed are there municipalities that do not handle it well? Finally. There are also problems with the payment arrangements available. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how they will be resolved in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Social Support Act and the Own Contribution Scheme. Several colleagues have already made it clear that a great many people, people with disabilities and older people's organisations are really scared and there is a lot to be done. That is understandable, because things are just not going well at the moment. The CDA also voted against the Social Support Act and a number of other laws because of this own contribution scheme. We had the feeling in advance that this would not go in the right direction. You can see that the group that fell into transitional law in 2015 is also facing a sharp increase in its own contribution this year. We have already seen several examples come along. The essence is that you now see that the middle incomes are the main victims. An article from the Home Office that I saw on the website yesterday shows that the average rate of €14.20 for specialist guidance has even gone to €80 in some cases. €80: that has really gone over many times. The article shows that a quarter of the people are now abandoning care or not even starting it. We received a letter from the Secretary of State. It seems to offer solutions, but if you continue reading, it is symptom control. The real problem is at the heart of the scheme. That is why the CDA Group is making a number of proposals to the Secretary of State to see if he really wants to change something to solve these problems. A first question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to include the general provisions in the own contribution scheme of the Social Support Act. A second possible solution is to rely on fictional average or maximum rates on which the CAK bases its own contribution and to establish it nationally, so that there is also a degree of legal certainty for citizens who have to pay their own contribution. They'll know what they're up to in advance. A third possible solution is to introduce a discount on the own contribution scheme if a caregiver or family member gives above usual care. Then we reward instead of punishing what the Secretary of State is doing now. That's some kind of Wtcg scheme new style. The conclusion may already be that these own contributions are really negative for people who are just above 120% of the statutory minimum wage. They are now paying a high percentage contribution. In some cases, they sink through the ice. I am beginning to wonder if this is sometimes the intention of the law made by the Secretary of State, the Social Support Act. Is this supposed to be some kind of Welfare Act that you can only use if you get 120% of the statutory minimum wage and otherwise not? I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State on this point. The CDA does not see the Social Support Act that way. People with a middle income should also simply be able to use this law, municipal care and support. Yes, a reasonable own contribution may be paid for it, but a reasonable own contribution. This contribution increases as people have more income. I would also like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on this point. I'm coming to a closure. We're getting another investigation. That's a kind of strategy of both regiments. If there's a problem, first you tell me you're not talking about it. If you don't go over it, someone else is going over it, for example, the city. If you don't get out, you're gonna do your research. The question now is whether the study by the Central Bureau of Statistics gives us some nice tables, see page 5 of the preliminary study, or whether this research is really going to say something about the effects of the reform of long-term care on its own contribution. That would have a real added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u24	I find the argument on a number of points a little confusing. I know that the CDA Group very often calls for research, particularly in terms of tariffs, own contribution and consequences. I hear the CDA group now saying that she doesn't need that investigation. Does she now consider it important to have a factual basis for what is happening at the moment, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u25	A factual basis is always good anyway. Mrs Bergkamp also knows that we have already proposed, during the process of examining the Social Support Act, a ceiling on the own contribution scheme and a ceiling on the general provision of tailor-made services. Actually, we're just gonna go through that line. That didn't happen. This gives the CDA Group the feeling that this is causing the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u26	This is really a little weird. In many debates, the CDA is asking for research on this subject. Now that would no longer apply. Let me ask another question, however, about something that I also found confusing in the CDA's speech. She indicated to be against the Wmo because it's going too fast. Now I notice that the CDA, every time a problem arises, says: that is why we have not supported the Wmo. Aren't those occasional comments? I find it rather confusing where the CDA is now. In the election programme, the CDA had entered an even greater cut. So I find it a little unclear what the CDA stands for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u27	I understand that Mrs Bergkamp feels a little uncomfortable because she voted for the law. She has been in the treatment of the Social Support Act. In doing so, the CDA has made a number of proposals to improve that law, including the establishment of a ceiling under that own contribution scheme. And yes, the introduction went too fast. In too short a time too many tasks were thrown over the fence of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u28	I do understand that the CDA is looking for arguments, but I don't think it's a very strong story. I like parties that are consistent, parties that do not ask for research at one time and do not find research relevant at the other time, parties that do not make further cuts in the care in an election programme and later say that they have a problem with austerity, parties that do not say that it is going too fast in the treatment of the Wmo and later say that it is because of their own contribution. I think it's an inconsistent story and I understand that the CDA is uncomfortable, but then tell me what the CDA really stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u29	The moment there's an article in Homeland Administration that a quarter of the people don't care and D66 says she doesn't understand what it's about, I can't follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u30	I had the idea that two middle parties would understand each other a little better. I notice the CDA is having trouble answering my questions. It's possible, but say so. Say you're uncomfortable because you come up with an occasional argument every time. I'd say that's more honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mrs Bergkamp has been present in the discussion of the Social Support Act. That law is not good, because we have thrown it over the fence in too short a time. We have not set a ceiling on our own contribution, and we have removed the obligation to pay compensation. That's what's causing the situation that people are in right now. D66 signed up for that. The CDA doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u32	I would like to continue with this, because this is beginning to look like occasional arguments. I have heard Mrs Keijzer say many times in this Chamber: we are not against the Wmo, we understand that it is necessary, we are not at all against our own contributions, but we are all going too fast and we should have been slower. That could be an argument if you're against the Wmo. I do not think it is a good idea, after so much time, to link another problem to the fact that we were against the law at the time. No, you have to say: we are perhaps seeing new problems now, we are all concerned about that and we are giving that to the Secretary of State. I don't think it's possible to use that argument right now to say you're against the Wmo. Say honestly: we didn't foresee that either; we want it to be looked at carefully, but we were against the Wmo because it went too fast. Don't go looking for another argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr Potters did not do the treatment of the Social Support Act. The CDA has tabled an amendment to limit its own contribution. The VVD and the PvdA voted against it. If there had been a majority in favour of that amendment, there could have been a lot of problems. We could have prevented people from giving up on care. I'm still really sorry that didn't happen. Now we have another year and a half to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u34	Okay, there is another spokesperson here, but I would ask the CDA to speak with one voice in future, as one would like to see from the cabinet and from other parties. The only reason you guys were against the Wmo was because of the speed. You weren't against your own contributions. It cannot be that one spokesperson in this Chamber says anything other than this spokesperson. Then let us be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u35	It is a real shame that my colleague from the VVD uses words that are actually twisted. We have had a comprehensive treatment of the Social Support Act. Many arguments have been put forward as to why the CDA considered that it was not a good law. That was the speed, that was the lack of a compensation obligation, that was the fact that there was no maximum on one's own contribution. It is all a matter that we are now running into in practice. And then it is important that we resolve these problems together. All the VVD does is live in the past. And that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u36	For the record: the CDA no longer wants its own contributions in the context of the Wmo?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u37	I have just said in my contribution that own contributions should be reasonable in relation to the income that people have. This means that you can also ask for a reasonable contribution from people with a middle income. But of course the practices that are now being developed, which require their own contribution above cost costs, cannot. We must do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u38	Finally, Mr Potters, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u39	The last point just doesn't add up. The VVD has often made the point, and Mrs Keijzer, the CDA spokesman, agreed that it should never be above cost. Mrs Bruins Slot's point is therefore not legitimate. We have had a lot of debate on this. That's not the point. I have asked whether this will be recovered. I think that's gonna happen, too. The point is that you make legitimate arguments in the Chamber. I understand that you can be against a law, but what I really can't find is that this is now being made a very big point and that a little bit is being done as if the CDA was the only one who warned about it, while at the time the main reason was real: we are moving too fast. There was no other reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u40	The CDA has already put forward proposals to achieve this, namely with the amendment we tabled. The VVD voted against it and that was an unwise decision of the VVD. Had she voted in favour, we could at least have avoided some of these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u41	I have another question for Mrs Bruins Slot, namely the point she raised that there is also a problem for middle-incomes and that the provisions for this, the concession, are not applicable to them. Does it recognise that the law that may provide for this is also related to local alertness to actually apply the financial possibilities offered by the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u42	There are two aspects to it. The first is that it is important that municipalities provide more local customization and look at the people who apply for this contribution. This also means that during the kitchen table conversation you need to have a much better conversation about this and therefore give much better insight into what is going on. However, you can also see that certain resources are not being used everywhere to compensate people who do need them. You have to do something about that. The Secretary of State does not offer a solution in his letter. He stays on the information, the app and all, but you have to go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u43	This is what I'm talking about. The CDA is represented not only in many municipal councils but also in lectures. Of course, a lot has come towards the municipalities as well. So I don't blame them for not always being completely focused on the retina. Does Mrs Bruins Slot agree with me that we must take responsibility here and that there is also a world to be won locally so that the possibilities already offered by the law are actually exploited?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u44	Once with Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u45	What I find a bit complicated is that the Wmo 2012, which would have been introduced in 2013 if the previous cabinet hadn't been cases, so why introduced too quickly? It is also based on the system of own contribution as it currently applies. But that's not what my question is about. The CDA has previously asked, through Mrs Keijzer, for an investigation into the effects of its own contribution. Now I hear Mrs Bruins Slot say different words about this. Does the CDA want to know what's going on or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u46	There are two aspects to this. On the one hand, the investigation is fine. On the other hand, of course, we have long advocated that the general provision of tailor-made services should be included in the own contribution arrangements. There's nothing new about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u47	I believe that the debate is now not just about the general provision but specifically about the tailor-made provision. I find it complicated that the CDA does use big words and has asked for an investigation, but now I do not know exactly where the CDA is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u48	That research is fine; it has to be done. I have also put forward three proposals to the Secretary of State. Does he want to change at these points? The first is that the general provisions will also be covered by the Wmo own contribution scheme. The second is whether there might be a possibility of using fictitious average maximum rates. Or is a reduction of the own contribution scheme possible if a caregiver or family member offers above usual care? There are two things you can do, and we do so very often; in my opinion, these rulers do it too often. You can wait a long time until there's an investigation. Such an investigation is coming now, and so should we. But at the same time you can also offer solutions for things that you already know in advance are not doing well. That's what the CDA chooses. The PvdA is waiting, but the CDA chooses that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mrs Agema also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr. Chairman. I have an order proposal. In the run-up to this debate, we have rappelled five times in the last six months for more information. All spokesmen have indicated that they require more information from the Secretary of State. I do not think this is the right time to move on to the answer given by the Secretary of State. I propose that the questions put by colleagues be collected and the Secretary of State who answers them in writing. Then we shall postpone the follow-up to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u51	Is this about the questions that Members of Parliament asked in their first term or is it about other questions that have been asked earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u52	We've been asking for more information. That is what we have been doing, but we have not been given that information. Now, in fact, all the spokesmen say that they need more information. That is about numbers and numbers; everyone has talked about it. I think it would be wise for us to simply get it before we continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u53	I'm gonna see if there's a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u54	In fact, I think it is very relevant that we get those answers. The CAK itself rang the bell that something wasn't going well. We asked about those invoices. However, I would also like to know what is going on with the recalculation, with the reference date. It seems to me that that's just going to turn out, because we're administering ourselves silly in health care. I would like to have it because it is relevant for the continuation of this debate, but certainly also for this afternoon's debate, in which we have the brilliant proposal of this government...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u55	Only express support or no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u56	...to discuss further assignments to the CAK.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u57	You support Mrs Agema's proposal, but you are making another proposal in relation to the debate that is on the agenda this afternoon. That is a new proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u58	No, Mr. Chairman. I'm just saying it has to be quick. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna suspend a little bit longer, we're just gonna have to deal with it and then we're gonna move on. It is also relevant for this afternoon's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u59	I do not need to stop the debate now and move on at another time. As far as I'm concerned, we'll suspend a few more minutes if necessary. In my view, the Secretary of State is more than capable of simply answering the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u60	I think so, too. Let us continue the debate. If the Secretary of State needs some extra time for the answers to a number of factual questions if he does not already have them, then that's fine. Let us at least continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u61	I too would like to continue the debate. We started the debate because we apparently had enough information to keep a first deadline. I would therefore like to hear the answers from the Secretary of State. Then we can determine what further information we want. Perhaps written information is already available on the basis of what has been requested by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u62	I agree with what the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u63	I've just been asking about the information that's at stake. The question is which people have a payment scheme and how large the working stock is. In itself, these are data that the CAK should simply have and I assume that the civil servants should have them during the preparation. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to make sure that we get that information during the answer of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mrs. Agema's request is to suspend until the information arrives. Do you support that request?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u65	I do not support the request to suspend the debate and actually put forward an interim proposal, because I do see that the information is relevant and assumes that it was normal during the preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u66	However, I understand that the debate does not depend on that. I now look at the number of political groups that supported the request and note that there is no majority in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u67	I have to conclude, then, that the majority simply put the questions before the stage. We've been rappelled up to five times, we don't even know how many people are still in that work stock or what kind of invoices they've been getting. We don't know anything. But all say they want that information. If this debate ends up unsatisfactory again, and it is really a huge number of people with extremely high accounts, then I will give you a note that I will simply ask written questions about it. I'm really gonna do that because I don't want the Secretary of State to keep getting away with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u68	But it is also the right of Members of Parliament to ask written questions if they consider that important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u69	I wonder how other parties feel about my interim proposal. This could enable us to hold the debate on the basis of more information. We can then link them to the solutions that the Secretary of State is hopefully going to offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u70	Of course, every Member has the right to ask parliamentary questions, but the whole committee has always supported Mrs Agema to get more information. We have been waiting six months for this, so I think it is a slightly different problem. We know very well what instruments we can use, but we simply do not get the information. That is a worrying problem in this ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u71	I note that there is no majority in favour of Mrs Agema's proposal to suspend the debate until factual information has been obtained. There is also Mrs Bruins Slot's request to the Secretary of State to ensure that information is given to the Chamber during the first time reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u72	It seems to me that the Ministry simply has that information in preparation for the debate. An A4 can be made of this and we can get it in the first period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u73	We're gonna have another round.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u74	I'm starting to find it a little confusing. I think we can just start with the Secretary of State's term. Should there really be no information on the table, we will see further at that time. I do not see a great need for these order proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u75	As far as I am concerned, we will receive all the additional information available in writing. Otherwise, let's have a quick debate. Then we can talk to the Secretary of State about what we have had and what we don't have and what we want and what we don't want anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u76	I can imagine that there have been statements made during the preparatory work. If they can be sent to us on paper, I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u77	I asked Mrs Bruins Slot exactly what she meant. I understand her proposal better now. She has asked a number of questions. Her appeal is that we should have the information in the debate today so that we can involve it. I think that is a real proposal from Mrs Bruins Slot and support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u78	If Agema asks for the answers to the questions that all Members have asked, then we will lie down. And if there's another variant, that's why we're here. Well, I'm glad the answers finally come up after six months. I'm looking forward to that. It could have been six months earlier, but let's wait for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u79	I would like to respond to Mrs Agema's words. We do not support the need to oppose the debate so that Mrs Agema gets answers to the questions. We do, however, support the fact that a number of questions will be answered during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u80	Is there anyone else with a new proposal to make it even clearer? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the members' input. I think it would be a good idea to do the answer in a few blocks. Firstly, I would like to make a number of general comments on the stacking invoices and the letters sent to the House of Representatives on that point, then on the own contribution as such. I would then like to comment on the questions of care avoidance and finally on the investigation of the CBS and what is more. It is good to realize that there are always stacking invoices. I also indicated that in my letter. This is because we have opted for a system for our own contribution, stating in advance what is about the maximum period contribution and then an invoice based on the actual use of care. The House has read in my letter that out of the approximately 450 000 own contributions per year, which varies from year to year, of course, about 8% is always a stacking invoice. This is because the use of care fails and then the real account is looked at. The CAK has sent out the signal that this percentage has risen to around 11% in the course of 2015. This means that the municipalities were delayed in driving that information, that there was sometimes a problem with the administration office or that the ICT was wrong. So there were more stacking invoices than usual. Sometime in the middle of the year, the CAK issued a signal about a specific category of these stack invoices, namely those 7,000. Those 7,000 were people who received a WMO allowance from the beginning of 2015 and thus received care. They received the stack bill in September. So that was very late. It was a specific category, which then received extra attention. Meanwhile, all the stack invoices for the 7,000 have been sent. That means the system's running. The CAK now reports that it does not expect new stacking invoices to be added. So that means we're processing the stock now. So people suddenly have a stack of invoices and they get a payment arrangement if they want to. The current position of these payment arrangements is around 20,000 over the year 2015. The CAK expects that the stock of stack invoices due to the system change is now pretty much through and that no new stack invoices will be added. They also asked if it could be simpler. That is a very fair question. The point about your own contribution is that you work with the maximum period contribution. You say to people: this is about what you can get to the maximum. Because you're settling on the basis of actual care use, you're always delayed. So it remains a bit of a consideration whether you want to work on a flat-rate basis, where you quickly determine your own contribution and that is it, or want to pay for real care use. So you always have a delay in the system, just separate from incidental causes. I agree with Mrs Bergkamp that the letters are short and businesslike. It explains exactly what it is, but I can very well imagine that it is very difficult to make the combination. First you get the maximum period contribution. After that, you get the bill, which isn't so bad as a rule. I'm talking to the CAK and the client organisation to see if we can't simplify that much further in communication and information. We can talk as Brugman about how that system works, but it's just complicated. This means that we have to pay very much attention to how we can say it better at different times. It's just hard for you to find out what the maximum is first and get the reckoning later. You'll get it later because there's all kinds of information to get. You also need to get some information from the IRS. So that's just complicated. I have said to all those involved that this complex issue of these links should also be easier to explain to everyone. I think that's really, really important. That's essential. This is also evident from these cases. That's one. Two, in the debate, the question was asked whether you should set some sort of ceiling for that. Should you say to the municipality: within a certain period you have to work it out, because if it is going to take too long, do people have to wait a very long time for the bill? I actually think that's a good point. We're talking a little bit about the city money. They have to deliver the information. They must ensure that they can collect their own contribution through the CAK, but I understand the wishes of the Chamber very well. I would like to make it my wish if the Chamber gave me the opportunity to look with the most concerned, the VNG and the CAK, at what is a reasonable period of time, given the information to be obtained from all sides. Perhaps we should agree on a maximum time limit. I understand the wishes of the Chamber. I actually want to honor it because I think it is a reasonable wish, but I ask for some room to discuss it with the most involved. Then I'll report to the Chamber at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u82	You have indicated that you will deal with a number of issues. You've started stacking invoices. Is this part ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u83	We have been asked whether there is a final position on the stacking invoices. I've already mentioned that a little bit. I checked with the CAK again this week. There are no signs that there are still delays. That's still checked with municipalities and healthcare providers. This does not mean that there can never be a stack of invoices again because something has gone wrong in the sense that a healthcare provider has provided the wrong data, but the CAK indicates that there are no signs that there are still delays. This means that there are no new clots coming and that the clot that was there is slowly but surely being removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u84	The Secretary of State indicates the number of four-week periods that can be charged for wanting to maximize. I think that's very positive. He's gonna talk about that. When are we going to get a result? What's he thinking? Is he thinking of ten periods tops or three? I'd like to have a bit of a direction. And why does he only set a maximum over a new period and not over the period that has been?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u85	We have the laws and regulations as they are. Now I'm just looking at the piece of CAK. I believe that the CAK has a total of 24 months to determine that contribution. That's what's in the laws and regulations now. If Mrs Agema asks me to judge this and I look at it through my eye hairs with a carpenter's eye, I think it is a long time. But there will be reasons for that. Those reasons are that information has to be obtained from the municipalities, the healthcare providers and the Tax Administration. So I understand Mrs. Agema's wish. Because I do, but that's exactly the space I'm asking for. I really want to know what a reasonable period of information is for all the institutions that have to provide that information, so that we can also sort it out a little bit. So I share Mrs Agema's wish, I want to work hard to see if we can set those standards, but don't ask me to make them now. I really want to know for sure what kind of institutions and citizens is a reasonable period of time to be able to request information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u86	The Secretary of State clearly says he's leaving the scandal for what it is. He's going to see if a maximum is possible in the future, and he's also going to look at those 24 months. That 24-month period is, of course, insane, because someone could have died in the meantime. When will we hear the outcome of the conversation with those involved? What's the Secretary of State thinking? Those 24 months, as far as he's concerned, go back to 12, or to 3? What's he thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u87	I do not want to comment on this at this stage. Why not? Because I really want to know how much time the IRS reasonably needs to be able to provide that information. What is reasonable if care use is known? Because we try to estimate in advance what the maximum contribution is and want to pay at actual hours, we depend on the information from third parties. Then I really want to talk to those third parties to see what's reasonable, so we can weigh up what we're going to set as a standard. I therefore ask Mrs Agema to be patient. I promise her that I will come to the Chamber before the summer with the answer to the question of what is a reasonable period of time and whether it makes sense to set limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u88	For the summer, that's...?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u89	I don't know exactly when the summer recess will begin. For July 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u90	Before 1 July 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u91	Will the Secretary of State then take with him how balanced these deadlines are? On the one hand, there is the citizen who says that his own contribution is levied on an income that he no longer has or wants to object to; that must be done within six weeks. If he's late, he's out of luck. On the other hand, municipalities and CAK have endless time to provide data for that profound own contribution. Does the Secretary of State want to take that with him in his reconnaissance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u92	Yes, because I think Mrs Leijten has a point there. The parties must be reasonably able to provide information, but it must also be reasonable and understandable time limits for citizens. I agree with Mrs Leijten. And they have to be balanced, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u94	I come to my own contribution in general. Are we dealing with an arrangement that is a poverty settlement? We have talked extensively about how we are going to set up the system of our own contribution. There are several possibilities. The first is via the Wmo, in which we talk about domestic help, daily spending and guidance. Much depends on the personal circumstances. We have asked the question what is reasonable. To this end, together with the Chamber, we have produced a table setting out the maximum period during which an own contribution can be requested at which income. This list is the legal framework within which municipalities have to operate, and it is true that they can charge the maximum cost. But the maximum period during which a contribution is paid is independently linked to income and wealth. Mrs Bruins Slot said that no ceilings have been set, but there are. There is a legal framework setting out the maximum period contribution per category of income. It looks at income and wealth. That means that's the basis. Municipalities can certainly deviate from that in a downward sense. Municipalities can set different rates, they can consider whether their own contribution should be determined differently or they can make specific arrangements. I say to Mrs Bruins Slot: the CDA also voted in favour of the debate on the influence of the Wtcg and the discount on its own contributions. We have established the legal framework within which municipalities will operate. Municipalities may apply downward adjustments. I think it's a good thing that municipalities do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u95	It might be useful if the Secretary of State finishes this block first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u96	I'm working on the "own contribution" block right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u97	I have a procedural point, Mr President. The Secretary of State refers to my words. However, I was talking about the general provision and not about the tailor-made provision. The Secretary of State uses the tailor-made provision in his reply. I think it's a little sad that he's explaining it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u98	That's another point. Should these general provisions be covered or not by the Wmo's own contributions system? I will come to that, but I would like to point out that we have done research on that point and the samples we have kept. Municipalities have indicated that, in general, no own contributions are required for these general provisions. That is also logical, because if municipalities want to encourage people to make more use of these general provisions, they will not set a threshold for this. That's what the investigation shows. However, we do have a legal framework, with ceilings linked to income and wealth. I will come back to what effects that could have and whether we should look at them. However, we have established this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u99	That wasn't my question. The Secretary of State links a whole story to my question and then concludes that I made a wrong comment. But that wasn't my question. I would like the Secretary of State to stick to the input that MPs have provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u100	I do not want to dwell too long on this, but Mrs Bruins Slot asked if there were any ceilings in that arrangement. So those limits are there. On the subject of own contributions, Mrs Bergkamp asked about the large differences between the amount of the own contribution and the final statement and asked whether this was often the case. The invoice can only be lower than the decision. I just turned that in. The differences occur in clients where care costs are lower than the maximum period contribution. This occurs in about 15% of the invoices. Mr Potters asked how municipalities are being corrected which are based on an amount higher than the cost of their own contributions. As you know, churches have been addressed by me. In the event that the cost is lower than the rate for the own contribution, the municipalities have corrected it. Correction invoices have been sent. These are limited to the cost, but those correction invoices have been sent and so it is settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u101	I had also asked this question, but I had also asked another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u102	The Secretary of State hasn't finished answering all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u103	I had a hunch he was done with my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u104	Is that right, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u105	I am looking at that, but I have no objection to Mr Potters asking a question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u106	But I do, at least if you're not ready at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u107	I am not done with this block, but with Mr Potters' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u108	Mr Potters will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u109	We are also getting signals that municipalities, for example, are compensating for the special assistance in terms of their own contributions and below the table we have agreed on. This is possible, because municipalities have the legal capacity to reduce their own contributions. But then, for the minima, the own contribution is modest, while for the middle incomes it is higher. We can see that, too. We do not want this to mean that the middle income must pay the maximum own contribution and the minimum income is totally spared. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? What's he look like in there? Does he want to appeal to municipalities to deal with them in a balanced way? Surely one income group cannot be taken to the maximum and the other cannot. I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State's position is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u110	I am inclined to make the same comment as I have just made, namely that we have established the legal framework here with each other, with a maximum period of time, given income and wealth, and that we have then given the municipalities the freedom to deviate from it if necessary. There will then be municipalities that say: we pay particular attention to income groups which may have difficulties for other reasons. I would not like to enter into this freedom of the congregations. I do not think Mr Potters wants that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u111	No, but it is a group that may be at 110% or 120% of the minimum income and can therefore just be faced with a high contribution, versus the group that does not. I understand that the Secretary of State does not want to go into that, but I can imagine him saying to the municipalities: deal with this in a balanced way and make sure that you use the legal possibilities you have in a good way. I am not asking the Secretary of State to give a clue to municipalities that do it differently. That is something else, but I am asking him to give an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u112	I agree with Mr Potters that I will return to the subject of concern. I do believe that local authorities, regardless of income, are obliged to apply the legal framework or possibly lower. Municipalities are then obliged to check in all cases whether their own contributions are the reason why care is avoided. This applies not only to groups at the minimum level or at 120% of the minimum wage. Mrs Leijten asked how I indicated the ruling on Boxmeer and what legal certainty it offers to other people. It's a ruling from a lower court. At the same time, Boxmeer's ruling led to a change of policy in this area. That's what happened. Reports are important, but this was a specific case. A route price was agreed. In practice, it led to a much higher level of actual care use, so that it became an unbalanced situation. I would point out that in the letter of 1 March, the UNG made a statement on this matter. It urges all municipalities to provide tailor-made services and not to continue to reason in general. I think that the ruling on the municipality of Boxmeer has made sure that municipalities have become very alert to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u113	For the SP it is the shame of this time that people have to go to court to get care or because they get too high a bill for care. This is a consequence of the law of the Secretary of State, which we have often discussed. Now there is a statement about their own contribution and the municipality is being attacked. That means that other citizens in the country should be able to derive rights from it. Or does the Secretary of State say, no, go to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u114	No. I have pointed out that corrections are made if they are charged higher than the cost. That's what happened. As a result of this ruling, all municipalities have been reminded to pay attention to this. If they agree on a route price, which is too different from the actual use of care, then they have to adjust their policies. In the case of the municipality of Boxmeer, this has actually happened. The VNG has taken up this point and communicated it to all the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u115	That man from Boxmeer got his own contribution of €500 instead of €61 per month. Thus, in Boxmeer's situation, the route price would be eight times higher than the actual cost. I really don't believe that. I don't think this was the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u116	It kind of depends on what exactly happened before. You can see that in the calculation of the own contribution there are sometimes provisions higher than the cost of which you have to ask yourself why such a high price is attached to it. I do not make any statements about this on the basis of an individual case, but that was the case that was at issue. A route price was agreed, but that week very much away from actual care use. That was the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u117	There is a statement about an own contribution that was far too high and could not be carried by a person. I am very sorry that the Secretary of State complicates this by starting with a route price. I really do not believe that there are municipalities that buy that eight times more expensive. If there are, that is a reason to think very carefully about the functioning of the law. I would like the Secretary of State to have said that he is going to look into whether this provides legal certainty for others. In fact, however, he says that everyone has to go to court in his own case, because then it can be considered whether there is any customization. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u118	That's not what I meant to say. In the case of the municipality of Boxmeer, the judge said that this is not possible. Then the municipality of Boxmeer changed the policy and the VNG warned the municipalities about this kind of thing. I think it's a good thing the system works that way. Mrs Leijten also asked whether there would be a timely recalculation if income fell. The CAK shall fix the maximum period contribution once per year of care on the basis of the income data of the Tax Administration. If there is a major change in income, a CAK may be requested from the CAK. As a rule, it does. I will mention in the second term how often that is the case, if we can get that from the CAK so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u119	I have asked the following questions: how often is this requested, is there a queue for it and are people actively reminded that they can do so? We get a lot of emails about our own contribution. They are also often about the reference date and how people are informed by the CAK. I asked those questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u120	From my point of view, I thought that the CAK's decisions included the annual annual rewrites. I can see from the consciences in the benches that this is true. Each decision therefore points to this. Mrs Leijten is right, and that is also a bit of my answer to Mrs Bergkamp's questions. So this is simply on every decision, but I am very willing to see how we can further strengthen active information on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u122	Now I come to the CAK and the Tax Administration in connection with the advice to separate from table and bed. I would not recommend anyone to give that type of advice for that reason. The CAK doesn't recommend that either. It happens that a client submits such a situation to the CAK in the sense of: what happens if? This takes place only at the request of the client. For the record, divorce from the table and the bed is not the same as divorce. In a divorce from the table and the bed, people break up, but they stay married according to the law. That is because some people whose financial situation does not allow them to pay their own contribution with the combined income are sometimes asked to do so, which is a bit in the direction of the questions that Mrs Leijten has asked.... or are willing to look at the possibility of being classified as permanently separated, just as in the AOW. That's why people sometimes come up with that. They then ask what exactly is the situation and what should they do about it. In the AOW, there is indeed a procedure for being considered to be permanently separated if one of the partners enters an institution. This possibility also exists in the Wlz for people who have not yet reached the AOW age. Now I'm saying it's a bit simple: this is not a standard option, but you can ask for it. Why is that? If you do this, this will not only affect your own contribution in the Wlz, but also other consequences, for example for your care and rent allowance and perhaps also for other schemes that are income-related. So you have to weigh this very carefully individually. So you can ask to be considered permanently separated, but that has other consequences. In this context, I think it is important first of all to ask whether people know enough what the consequences are. This point has already been raised in the Chamber. Secondly, I wonder whether we should consider to what extent this is a reason for making this standard. Is that an advantage or is that not an advantage? I understand the question in that it has to be compared with other rules and we must then ask ourselves whether we are doing this in the same way here and whether that will help. I'm willing to do that. I would like to point out that I think it is important for someone to be able to weigh that up, because that decision can therefore have an impact on many more income-dependent schemes that a person makes use of. But I'm willing to look into that. I have already answered Mrs Bruins Slot's point about the general provision in general. I see her nodding, so that's how she sees it. A number of times they asked whether there was sufficient information about their own contribution when the kitchen table conversation took place. That is indeed an important point. I think there's a few things going on there. First of all, I think it is quite possible to make very important indications during the kitchen table discussion. There is a tool from the CAK to arrive at some kind of calculation. There is also a legal framework setting out the maximum period contribution for a given income and capital. It is therefore possible, in principle, to give a very good indication of their own contribution in that discussion. I don't think it can be good enough. There is a proposal from Each (in) to use the standardised household examples, the calculation examples, much more often during that conversation. I agree. I would therefore like to take a look with them and with the VNG at how we can further complete this. There is a point here, and that is also an explanation. Because the contribution is partly dependent on the property, the indication depends partly on the amount of wealth and savings people have, and I can imagine that not everyone wants to say that at that kitchen table. So there are opportunities for people to make a calculation. There is also a CAK tool and there is the proposal of Each one, which I think is a good proposal. I very much agree that we need to look again at whether the information in the front can not be strengthened much more. Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether incorrect information is also provided by the Tax Administration. I have no signals to suggest that this happened within the framework of the Wmo. All information is processed directly and there are no delays. If Mr Van der Staaij himself has received signals to this effect, I would like to look at them separately. However, it was stated by the CAK that no incorrect information was received about the Wmo from the Tax Administration. I see that Mr Van der Staaij stands up: he has other information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u123	I am not saying that this is on a large scale, but we have heard from people that something had gone wrong somewhere in the Tax Office and that it was not possible to prove otherwise that the information was incorrect. The delay resulting from the correction of this problem either acts on the basis of the determination of the own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u124	I am prepared to ask the CAK again if this happens occasionally and if in that case the speed of adjustment is sufficient to ensure that this is resolved quickly. Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van Dijk have specifically asked whether the municipalities are making sufficient use of the tailor-made possibilities. If that is not the case, should that not be the case? When I go for a round, talk to aldermen and make work visits, I see that municipalities generally use a lot of opportunities. The municipalities of Almere and Lelystad say that they are considering whether their own contribution to daily work can not be cancelled entirely. The municipalities of Zoetermeer and Amsterdam build it themselves and prefer to give a volunteer contribution rather than ask for their own contribution. The municipality of Nijmegen does not ask for its own contribution to the "basic daily spending" which it has described as such. Breda and Leiden use more fictitious rates for the contributions, even at municipal level. Utrecht does not ask for its own contribution above a certain age. Municipalities are therefore, on a rather large scale, engaged in an additional policy to mitigate their own contribution. However, it is a very valid point. Municipalities didn't get the money for nothing. This means that they should not only say what is about their own contribution, but also, of course, check whether it is an obstacle. So it is not just a question of examining the possibility of paying an own contribution according to the rules. It is also a question of looking at the individual case afterwards. This seems to me to be very important, in particular because it should be the trigger for any additional policy, which a municipality should also implement. So good information. It is actually Mrs Bergkamp's three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u125	I was already at the interrupting microphone, but I'm gonna sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u126	So you have to give the right information. Then you look at whether there is a lack of care and at the moment when it is needed you put in the supplementary policy at an individual level. I am very willing to discuss these three points with the VNG once again. The letter from the UNG also shows to me that it takes this very seriously. I am very willing to bring that to the attention of VNG and municipalities once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u127	I am already pleased with this commitment. After all, you can see that a number of municipalities simply don't do it. There is a kitchen table in which it only deals with the number of hours and the question of which care was received last year. If people cannot afford it, they do not actively point out the possibilities offered by the municipalities. The moment someone starts avoiding care, people are no longer being followed. So I think it is important for the Secretary of State to discuss this with the VNG, but I also want us to follow closely in the coming period whether it actually happens in practice. I am getting too many signals from people that education is really very limited at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u128	I agree. I shall come back to this later on when it comes to the CBS investigation and any additional wishes that may exist on that point. Most of you have talked about the care-avoidance effect of your own contribution. As a result of the investigations of Each (in) and National Government and the broadcast of Nieuwsuur, I have already said that municipalities are obliged to provide support if that of the municipality is necessary. The fact that people cannot pay their own contribution should not prevent them from receiving it. Wmo support should be accessible to everyone. Municipalities are required under the law to pay attention to the financial situation and possibilities of the person concerned in the study in preparation for the decision on support. This concerns the three points raised by Mrs Bergkamp. There must be good information. We need to look at what that own contribution means. In addition, additional policies must be put in place. There are opportunities for that, too. Municipalities have resources for tailor-made work, as Mr Van Dijk quite rightly pointed out a number of times. I think the overall system in general is appropriate. The own contribution for domestic aid, daily expenditure and guidance should, in classical terms, not exceed the cost. The ceilings are in the law, linked to income and wealth. Municipalities have the possibility to deviate from that. We need to check that municipalities are doing enough. For the neighbourhood care, where there is concern about your body, the personal circumstances are not considered and therefore there is no contribution of your own. So there are no thresholds for this. Under the Health Insurance Act, there is then a discussion about one's own risk. Other debates are taking place on this subject. I'd like to have a clear view of whether things are going well enough. It's not in itself that crazy to ask for your own contribution. That's what we decided with each other. There are also legal limits. There should be no unnecessary thresholds. Sometimes people say they can afford it, but they don't give a shit about it. That sometimes makes the discussion about care avoidance difficult. That is a different matter than not being able to pay their own contribution and therefore not being given care. We shouldn't have that. That is why we need to have a clear view of the precise effects of our own contribution. That brings me to my final point, the investigation of the CBS. This research focuses on households with people aged 18 and over in 2013, 2014 and 2015. I want to ensure that we not only get good information about the level of our own contribution and what it means. I also want to know why people don't care. Is that a choice of yours or not? Have municipalities checked this sufficiently? Do they use their complementary policies properly? In addition to the CBS study, I therefore intend to look at the use by municipalities of their additional instruments in a qualitative way. In addition, I would like to consider whether we can go deeper into people's motivations to refrain from care. Can't they afford it, or can they afford it, but for some other reason they're not? That last one's something else. However, I would find it very bad if people were not given care because they cannot afford it. I'd like to add that floor. Mrs Bergkamp asked if the information could come sooner. I'll be happy to discuss this with the VNG. I share her wish. We should not wait until the results of the CBS study, but I would ask for room to look with the VNG at what is possible in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u129	I'm actually getting a little nauseous when the Secretary of State says it's a choice of his own to refrain from caring. If people need care, it's indicated. The moment they can't afford that kind of care, there shouldn't be a discussion about whether they don't want to pay for it. How is the Secretary of State going to determine whether people are powerless to pay, or whether they don't want to pay? Otherwise, he will say again in the next debate: I do not know whether people can do it or not, I have to do more research and cannot propose any changes to the policy at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u130	As you know, we have established an own contribution scheme, which is related to income and wealth. We have said by category of income what the maximum period contribution may be. The municipalities may deviate from that. The debate, which Mrs Leijten also argues, is that we need to consider whether the level of the own contribution with the ceilings we have set is an obstacle to the provision of care. People can say: if I have to pay this own contribution, I'll do it myself. For example, if the municipality wants to place a stair lift in a house, it says what its own contribution is and gives the cost, then there will also be people who want to pay it themselves. People may be able to pay for it, but they don't use the Wmo facility. We agree that we do not want the level of our own contribution to be such that someone does not receive care if he cannot pay it. In accordance with the wishes of the Chamber, I want to find out more, because that is not what we want with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u131	The example of the stair lift is nice, but I have here an example of a lady with a crazy day-night rhythm. She is not in a position to regulate that herself, which is why she has panic attacks. She's been stable ever since she started spending the day. She already paid a lot, namely €224 per four weeks, but now receives an account of €1,112,67 per four weeks. Does the Secretary of State really think that people can cough that up at once? And how is the Secretary of State gonna find out if this lady won't pay or can't pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u132	I'm just looking for the table for the maximum period contribution for single-person households. This is €752.25 for an income of €86.000. I would therefore like to investigate this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u133	I'll make sure the Secretary of State gets this information. However, the question remains open as to how to find out whether someone can't or won't pay for it. I asked the Secretary of State earlier whether he could not look at the disposable income in the calculation of his own contribution. People have fixed burdens. You can have a high income on paper, but if you have a high mortgage or rent and you still have a number of children to feed or bring to child care, then that all costs money. This is not considered in the calculation of the own contribution. The recalculation doesn't look at that either. The Secretary of State should calculate his own contribution on the basis of people's disposable income, but he was not prepared to do so in response to my parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u134	Perhaps even more precisely: at that time we had a debate on our own contribution, its calculation, the Wtcg, the discounts and what is more. There were calculations of the Nibud and other investigations on the basis of which we considered what a reasonable own contribution is in relation to income and wealth. This led to the own contribution table from which a municipality may deviate downwards. At the time, we therefore weighed together what is a reasonable relationship between our own contribution; naturally looking at what people need about it. This has led to the maximum period contribution and the determination of which part of your ability you could use for it. In addition, municipalities have been given the opportunity to deviate in specific cases where it is found to be incorrect, for example for the reasons mentioned by Mrs Leijten. That's the system we agreed on. That's very reasonable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u135	I note that, in whatever form I ask the question how it is determined whether someone can't or won't pay, the Secretary of State doesn't actually answer it, but that he does argue that care avoidance might be a choice of his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u136	I'm really gonna distance myself from that. Care-avoidance is not a choice of its own. People need to get the care they deserve. We all think so, and let's not pretend we don't all now. We have determined with each other what a reasonable own contribution is in relation to one's own income. All kinds of considerations have been discussed. How much can one spend? What are the burdens? That was all weighed up at the time. We have then set a maximum period of contribution whereby it has been agreed that municipalities may deviate from it if individual circumstances give rise to it, because everyone should be given the care he is entitled to. That is a great good thing, and we must maintain it. That's what I keep fighting very hard for. At the same time, I am prepared to see how it works in practice and whether municipalities apply the additional measures sufficiently. This is also about how we can ensure that, when people indicate "it is calculated in this way but it is not applicable in my case," the municipalities also look at it. That's why I announced those two investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u137	I welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that he will conduct qualitative research and that we will get the results before the summer. I think that's very important. I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State would also like to look specifically at young people without income who do have to pay their own contributions. We often talk about the elderly in this debate, which is also very logical and good, but we must not forget the young. I also have the question of whether the Secretary of State also wants to ask whether the municipalities have done tailor-made work in qualitative research. That way we can also see whether the system we have devised with each other really works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u138	That last point, I'm sure. I was hoping to have already promised that, but this is confirmation. I'll make another comment. Mrs Bergkamp said: well that the Secretary of State wants to do so before the summer. I have indicated that I would also like to do it before the CBS study, but that I do need some space to talk to the VNG and others about what is a reasonable period of time. At least I'm trying very hard to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u139	Fine. I think that's a reasonable request. I also asked a question about the young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u140	We'll take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u141	I welcome the statement made by the Secretary of State on this point. I have here the table on my own contribution. People with an income up to €22,486 must pay their own contribution of €19,40 and from an income of €40,000 that own contribution will be €221, so we are talking about a more substantial own contribution. I am glad that the SP is also concerned about middle incomes and not just low incomes. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that when it comes to balance and preventing people from taking care, we really need to talk about the middle incomes that may be more affected than low incomes? The plea is particularly valid for people who have an income of €38,000 or €40,000 and not much lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u142	Mrs. Leijten feels addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u143	We're worried about people who need care and face huge bills. Whether they have a high or low income, whether they're fat or thin, whether they're white or other skin color, doesn't make me. That is why we have tabled an amendment to waive our own contributions to the Wmo. By the way, the VVD voted against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u144	With regard to Mr Potters' question as to whether there is a lack of care on financial grounds and not on the basis of his own choices, this is of course true for all groups, not just at the bottom. We have made that table of maximum period contributions with derogations in individual cases for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u145	That is why I was so pleased with that earlier answer, in the sense that this cannot indeed be considered. Only, I am looking at the group that could be confronted with this to a greater extent. Hence I mentioned the €19.40 at €22,000 and the €221 at €40,000. Of course, there's the difference. So we need to take a closer look at the effect for middle incomes that are just above the minimum or higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u146	Where the problem can be different than at the bottom, you mean. We'll take that with us. I shall go back a little bit to answer Mrs Leijten's question about the annual shift. This was the case in the Wmo in 2015 in 16,268 cases. There is no queue, there is no delay. Each client is informed by means of the decision and in a separate leaflet attached to the decision that this annual turnover is possible. In 2016 this is only a short period of time, 1,685 annual changes have taken place. That was the Wmo. In the Wlz there were 18,341 annual changes in 2015 and in 2016 there were 4,492. These are, therefore, people who are asking for a survey year's turnover because their income has changed. These are the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u147	This brings us to the end of the government's first-term contribution. The second-term speaking time shall be one minute and twenty seconds, including the tabling of motions. I call Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u148	Mr. Chairman. This debate has taken place exactly as I expected. The Secretary of State will remove the enormous problem he has created and will not take responsibility for it. He even pretends this problem already existed under the AWBZ. Yeah, there were stack invoices back then. But then there was also a maximised hourly rate of €14.20 and there were not the rates of €80 that are now available. And then there weren't 23,500 product buyers. So there wasn't the gag in that delivery back then. It's all because of his Wmo. He doesn't have the guts and the decency to apologize for making sure that people get bills of €7,000 or €12,000. There's not even a beginning of an excuse, let alone a solution. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Central Administration Office (CAK) sends "stack invoices" on behalf of the government for its own contribution to the household assistance, guidance and daily spending (Wmo) of more than two four-week periods;]] [[noting that the Central Administration Office, on behalf of the government, even sends invoices over thirteen four-week periods due to "chain problems";]] [[noting that this government failure sometimes results in a high to very high stacked bill being presented to citizens half to a whole year later;]] [[noting that there are known cases of invoices stacked up to €12,000;]] [[believes that citizens should not be the victims of a government that has once again created chain problems;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the delay in the invoices for its own contribution to the WMO should not exceed two four-week periods;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that invoices which go back longer than two four-week periods are cancelled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u149	Mr. Chairman. From the drawing table of VWS and here in the Lower House it all seems to be right. Over the heads, we decide what people can contribute to the care they need up to a month. If people don't pay for it, it could be that they don't want to pay for it. That's an argument the Secretary of State didn't have to use, but it's so distinctive that he uses it. Sprinkle sand in the eyes, do investigations, say he doesn't want it but doesn't intervene. Human suffering is invisible. People who get a letter from the CAK have really shaking hands and sleepless nights. They waive the care they need. That is why I think that at the moment when you are investigating the consequences of your own contribution, you should not say: we will continue to collect them. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a quarter of people using care from the Wmo have reduced or even stopped care because they are unable to pay the high own contribution;]] [[noting that the impact of the own contribution is currently being investigated;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend collection of its own contribution until investigation has been completed and the consequences of its own contribution is known,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u150	I would like to make one more comment. With this policy people are sent from the locker to the wall and it is a policy of shifting debt. One of the things the Secretary of State comes with is the CAK calculation tool that people can use. There are now municipalities that advise their citizens not to use the CAK calculation tool, because different data is used everywhere. One municipality makes the settlement in an hourly rate or in a period amount, the other municipality works with one month and the CAK works with four weeks. In other words, don't use the calculation tool, because you can't derive any certainty from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u151	I have a clarifying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u152	About the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u153	Yeah, about the motion. Mrs Leijten wants to suspend her own contribution, but until when?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u154	Until it's clear what the consequences are. If the consequences are such that there is a need for a reduction, because I hear several political groups in the Chamber pointing out that we are going to apply them and then perhaps we are going to get rid of them. The inning should not take place now, because at the moment people are giving up care through the inning. Maybe we'll say in the fall that we're going to lower significantly. I'm actually listening to that here, also from the VVD. People don't want people to give up on care. Well, then you shouldn't have cashed in now, 'cause that's why people give up on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u155	Does Mrs Leijten's proposal mean that people still owe it, but that only the collection is suspended?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u156	As far as we are concerned, we prefer not to make our own contribution. That then lies in the decision we make. We all say here that it is undesirable for people to refrain from caring because their own contribution is too high. Then you're gonna have to shut down the inning, too, because we don't want that fallout.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u157	Of course, you have to deal with the law as it stands. Still, we're not gonna collect for a while. Actually, it creates a stack of invoices for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u158	As far as I'm concerned, we'll lose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u159	It's either one or the other. Or you say, "We're gonna lose it, we're not gonna collect it, it's over, we're gonna stop tomorrow." Or you say you're gonna suspend it. People may receive an invoice, but it is not yet collected, because the collection decision is not taken. Within the law, there will undoubtedly be a accumulation of invoices. Mrs Leijten can't just say that we're gonna get rid of it. You can't deal with the law like that. In this case, the Commission must define in its proposal exactly what it wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u160	It is quite clear that we do not want our own contribution. I can table another motion for that, but then it will be voted down again. Now I say to all those who are concerned about the lack of care, who think that this is due to their own contribution and who want to speed up research or ask for additional research in that study........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Doing research suggests you're gonna modify it. If you're gonna change it, it's bullshit to raise now. As far as I am concerned, such an adjustment means dropping our own contribution. If that question is asked to me, I will answer it. However, it is not in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u161	I must say to Mrs Agema that these stacking invoices lead to a great deal of uncertainty and that we need to remove that clot. In this debate, we are trying to remove the clot. It's almost out, but now the SP's putting a new gag in it. I don't think that's the intention. I really recommend to Mrs Leijten that the motion should not be tabled in this way. I don't expect a majority, but if there is, she'll be responsible for the stacking invoices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u162	The stack invoices had to do with a clot because of the information that wasn't there. They had to do with not settling, they couldn't collect. If we adopt Mrs Agema's motion, they will expire anyway if we suspend now, because then there should be no pile larger than four. I think it's very real to look at that. However, I do not think we can say that we are extremely concerned about politics and that no one should refrain from caring because their own contribution is too high, without doing anything. At least I'm doing something, Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u163	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the reply and for the commitment to improve communication when it comes to, for example, letters. For D66, it's important that people know what to expect. That is why I am tabling the next motion, together with Mr Otwin van Dijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that it is very important that people are familiar with the level of their own contribution and with the possibility of supporting the municipality when they cannot make their own contribution;]] [[calls on the Government to promote information on its own contribution in each municipality to ensure that people are informed of the financial support that municipalities can provide when their own contribution cannot be made;]] [[calls on the government also to remind the congregations of their (moral) responsibility to continue to monitor those who do not care and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u164	I welcome the commitment that a qualitative study will be carried out. I think that's very important. We will be told when that inquiry will come to the Chamber. To what extent could the CBS study, the outcome of which is expected in October, be slightly accelerated? If that succeeds, both investigations can be discussed at the same time in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u165	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and for his commitments. If we continue to do so, everyone will know where they stand as early as possible. Then the customization possibilities offered by the law are used in practice to bring relief to people facing stacking. I fully agree with the wording of the motion tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Van Dijk. Its content is very much in line with what we have discussed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u166	Mr. Chairman. It's important for people to know what they're up to. Municipalities must take advantage of their potential. That is why I would like to endorse Mrs Bergkamp's motion. I also have two motions of my own. The first concerns the direct cause of this debate, namely stacking invoices. The Secretary of State has taken an important step in this direction, but I think it is important to record it. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are stacking invoices for clients receiving care or support from the Wmo;]] [[noting that these stacking invoices often arise from late data exchange between municipalities, CAK and healthcare providers;]] [[noting that no maximum time limit is now set in the Implementing Decision;]] [[believes that people should not suffer from late data exchange and that people should be able to rely on a reliable government;]] [[invites the Government to examine whether a maximum delivery period for municipalities and a shorter deadline for setting the CAK is possible and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Potters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u167	My second motion deals specifically with the situation I have already mentioned in the first term: couples, one of whom is included in a health care institution. I am tabling this motion on behalf of Mrs Bergkamp. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that married couples may face high own contributions when one of the partners is to be included in an institution due to chronic illness or disability;]] [[believes that it is undesirable for couples to be separated because one of the partners needs to be included and their own contribution is too high to be paid and their families face financial problems;]] [[Whereas there is a procedure for AOW beneficiaries to be classified as permanently separated, which does not require effective separation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the solutions to prevent married couples from having high personal contributions when one of the partners is included in an institution due to chronic illness or disability, and to involve the procedure of "sustainable separation" as is possible for AOW beneficiaries, and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u168	Mr. Chairman. The answers given by the Secretary of State at least make one thing clear, and that is that we still have a long way to go before we are really clear about all the different aspects of our own contribution and how they work out. It is, of course, a good thing that more is being devoted to the provision of information. I stress the importance of fair information at an early stage. It is also a good thing that local authorities can provide tailor-made services. The CDA has also put forward a number of possible solutions for the Secretary of State. He was very clear about the general provision. He doesn't think that's possible. However, I have also made another suggestion, which I have not heard from the Secretary of State. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that each municipality may charge its own cost for help and support at home and that it is passed on to the own contribution of the people who use it;]] [[Considering that until 1 January 2015 a fictitious national cost for domestic assistance and guidance (including day-to-day spending) was included;]] [[Considers that thousands of different cost prices for aid and support lead to negative effects and consequently high costs;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the ongoing investigation whether the establishment of fictitious maximum amounts for home care and support is possible, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 July 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29538-211]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u169	It is above all a realistic motion, in the sense that I did not get the impression from the answer given by the Secretary of State that I can draw him over the line already. But maybe I can draw him into a thought, into a thought process and into research, so that the CDA and the Secretary of State eventually get to the same point. So let us explain the motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u170	Thank you for your voting advice. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State. We are waiting for the last motion, that of Mrs Bruins Slot, which is now being distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u171	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten said that it would be advisable not to use the calculation tool. I'll check it out. She mentioned a congregation. So I'll check with that county. My assumption was that the municipality said: be careful to use that calculation tool in those cases where it is already established that the municipality fixes lower rates. I'll look into her example. Mrs Bergkamp asked whether the CBS study could be speeded up. The CBS has indicated that it is dependent on the availability of the data and that this would not be possible until the autumn. Unfortunately, that is not possible. I'll move on to the motions. In her motion in part No. 206 asks Mrs Agema to do so in relation to the invoices and to indicate a period for that purpose. As I indicated during the debate, I understand the desire to see whether we can reach maximum deadlines. Another motion also requests that I examine that and discuss it with others. I have asked the Chamber to allow me to see what reasonable deadlines would be. I therefore prefer the other motion, and would therefore like to discourage Mrs Agema's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u172	Very special, because what is requested in that other motion has already been promised by the Secretary of State. So that motion is completely unnecessary, let's face it. That was that commitment the Secretary of State made to me in the first term! Mr Van Dijk then tabled a motion and the Secretary of State said he was going to support it! He's already promised this! So that motion is completely unnecessary. Anyway, that's how it is in this house. I have a much more serious point. The Secretary of State caused the clot. The Secretary of State has caused charges to rise explosively and the own contribution to reach 100%. The Secretary of State is responsible for these stacking invoices of €700, €7,000 and €12,000. I've asked the Secretary of State twice to apologize, but he won't! I think that is truly scandalous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u173	Then the motion to part No. 207...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u174	I conclude that the Secretary of State does not apologize for this huge scandal he is causing! It really is true of wild spiders!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u175	I have already mentioned in my letter what has been done about this, what the CAK has already said in contacts and how annoying the situation is that people will have to pay the bills later. I'll leave the qualifications on Mrs. Agema's behalf. In the motion in part No. 207 the government is requested to suspend the collection of its own contributions. Legally, we have determined with each other what our own contributions are. We have set a maximum period contribution for this purpose. We agreed in this debate to see if it works well, not only looking at care avoidance, but also to see whether the municipalities are applying their policies properly. I'd like to choose that order. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u176	So what's the Secretary of State gonna do if it turns out it's not working properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u177	Then I'm going to discuss with you what measures might need to be taken. That is why I ask the Chamber to report to me on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u178	So we're gonna have to wait for tests. These investigations are likely to lead to further investigations. The own contribution has already been collected and the suffering has already been suffered. If people have paid too much, do they have to recover it from their congregation or something? How does the Secretary of State see that? I note that the Secretary of State confesses with his mouth that he is concerned, but does not want to turn that into action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u179	I disagree with Mrs Leijten. Firstly, we have set a maximum period contribution, so that there is a relationship between income and capital. Secondly, we have instructed the municipalities to consider how they can deliver tailor-made work where necessary. Thirdly, we have agreed here because municipalities do indeed have many possibilities to provide customised services, as Mr Van der Staaij said that we are going to investigate further whether municipalities are applying the possibilities properly. So that doesn't mean we're not doing anything. I do not, however, recommend that we now decide that the collection is suspended. In the motion in part No. 208 I am asked to look into whether the information provided by the municipalities is in good order and to talk to the VNG to see if further improvements and simplification of the information provision can be achieved. Given the commitment I have made, the state of play in the debate and the common wish on that point, I believe that this motion supports policy and leaves it to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 209 the Government is asked to examine whether a maximum delivery period can be set. I indicated in the debate that this is also my wish. I'm gonna ask for room to see what's reasonable. For that reason, I shall leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 210 I am asked to look at what solutions there are for those cases where there are high own contributions and where one of the partners is included in an institution. I have indicated that these possibilities are already available in the current situation, but that we must consider whether this is going to be the standard or a deviation, and what the further consequences are. I'm prepared to conduct this investigation and leave the verdict to the Chamber. Mrs Bruins Slot announced my verdict on her motion in part No. 211 has been on for a while. I also attach great importance to her statement that we must work together to find a way that binds us and does not divide us further. That does not mean that I want to embrace this motion now, but we have agreed to conduct this investigation. On this basis, we can always weigh up what further measures are needed. We are not going to anticipate that now. Moreover, this would be a major intervention in the policy freedom of municipalities to shape, for example, the daily spending as they have been designed. I dissuade the motion at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u180	And I had put the motion in such an incredibly hesitant form, actually much more reluctant than I really would have liked as a CDA. I ask the Secretary of State to simply include this point in the investigation. This means that we can act more quickly if it turns out that other solutions are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u181	Then it is a bit like-danmotion with a number of advantages and disadvantages that we have to weigh together. To determine now in The Hague what the rate should be in all these municipalities while we are now trying to give these municipalities the freedom to organise, among other things, that daily spending in different ways, goes a little far. I appreciate Mrs Bruins Slot's reluctance. Her reluctance and my pragmatism must eventually lead to a path that does not separate us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u182	This Secretary of State could take a first step in this process by at least examining it. The CDA and the Secretary of State look at the solution differently, but the Secretary of State could at least examine the possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u183	It seems to me that, after the outcome of that study, we will come to an agreement on measures. I think that's early enough. I have now also been reluctant in my dismissive judgment, but I stand by my judgment to discourage it at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-5.u184	That concludes this debate. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
