ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	I am addressing the debate on the situation in dairy farming. This can, of course, lead to wide-ranging reflections, and that is dangerous because we are already way behind schedule. I ask Members to use some wise self-limitation, not the number of interruptions, because then we do not have a debate, but we do have the length of it. Keep them short and pointy, please. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Smaling on behalf of the SP Group. Of course, I welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs again. Speaking time is set at four minutes. It may not be longer, but it may be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The dairy farmers had been promised that sometime in April last year there would be a liberation day because the milk quota would end. We see that in 2015 110,000 cows were added in this country, that the price collapsed, and that we all did not exactly set up a legislative framework for dairy farmers. What's that all about? By the VVD. In all her contributions in this area, Mrs Lodders has advocated the extension of a sector which cannot expand because a Nitrate Directive is in force and a phosphate ceiling has been set. A lot of things we've seen coming. Farmers are excited by the VVD, to expand and to borrow from the Rabobank. Now those people are in trouble and the taxpayer is allowed to contribute to compensation for the people who were then, thanks to Rabobank, expanding. It is deeply regrettable and I cannot imagine that any dairy farmer in this country will vote for the VVD. The misery we have experienced is purely and simply due to the fact that everyone must be able to expand. The situation that has arisen in a sector that we can all be so very proud of is truly unprecedented. Now we are here; nothing has been arranged, there is uncertainty, it is a great tragedy for a sector that the Netherlands should simply be proud of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mrs. Lodders, you want to interrupt. Of course, you can simply take it as a compliment and leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	I wholeheartedly support Mr Smaling's last statement. I will begin my speech with it as well. It's a sector to be proud of. That's what I'd expect from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	Yes. I will come back to that later when Mrs Lodder makes her contribution. Friesland Campina pays farmers not to sell milk. That's the situation. As far as our group is concerned, it is a very sad dossier. I also regret that I admired the predecessor of this Secretary of State for her decisiveness and clarity. However, we have all gone horribly wrong on this dossier. We have not done the dairy farmers any service, let us be clear. I ask a few questions to the Secretary of State in response to the letter of 3 March. That's the anchor point we have. The first half of that letter isn't really that relevant. It's mostly about us exporting a lot of cheese. The second part of the letter already provides more clarity, but there is again uncertainty in that clarity. Actually, that's what my questions are about. There are many verses as'some degree' and 'closer to be determined', but I would like to know what the fate is of the more ground-bound part of the sector to which, on the one hand, there is room in the letter, but on the other hand, on page 7, that there is a generic creaming rate for all companies. If I sum up the letter, it means that those farmers who do not contribute to the phosphate ceiling and go beyond it will not be able to cope with the situation in which we have brought people. Is that right? I would like to hear solutions from the Secretary of State to deal with this, for example by laying a ground in the phosphate rights system. For example, farms with less than 2.5 cows per hectare could be excluded. Is that a workable course of action? In response to a factual round of questions, the Secretary of State said that he had an ear for linking the pig sector with the phosphate rights system that the dairy sector needed. How does he see that? I hope that this debate can also lead to a creative way of shaping it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr Geurts on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	I hear the SP Group naming a lot of troubles. How do you deal with the farmers who have not expanded over the last ten years and are not land bound according to the titles we have legally agreed? They acted within the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	That's right when it comes to the Fertilizers Act. But in view of the phosphate reduction ceiling, the CDA didn't really lead the way to warn. A number of groups in this Chamber have always said: beware, beware, stop this enlargement. A majority has not picked that up, and we are now in this situation. Farmers who are land-bound, but who do have a surplus, should contribute to this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	I specifically ask why the SP makes the choice to see a number of parts of the sector as a problem and not another part of the sector. What do you base that distinction on? After all, they all operated under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	Strictly speaking, you are right, let me admit that. We're dealing with a new situation right now. When I see how the whole sector is divided, with the three northern provinces as an example, I see that there is still a lot of unused production space there, because the number of animals is lower than what the soil can handle. You have to look at that. That's a nice little bridge to my last point. I'm asking the Secretary of State to look regional as well. The northern provinces need a boost. There's quite a lot of good pasture. Make sure that they can move forward with their ambition to get a robust and sustainable livestock farming system off the ground there. As far as North and South Holland is concerned, there is quite a lot of soil decline. In fact, grounding is beneficial from the point of view of machining in order to avoid a high level of CO emissions. A few weeks ago, a platform for weak soils was established, including an agenda for bottom descent of peat soils. Can the Secretary of State make any regional differentiation in order to resolve the phosphate rights issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague, Frank Wassenberg, and at the same time I have a round table discussion on the restraining of animals, as a criminal measure. So I'm gonna commute back and forth a little bit. Sorry about that. My associate will be listening to the answer of the Secretary of State. Half of all Dutch dairy farmers face financial problems. There is a surplus of calves, so 200 freshly born calves are sprayed to death every week. The manure heap is so large that by 2027 less than 15% of the targets set for cleaner soil and surface water will be achieved. The manure surplus is increasing. Every sane person saw it coming, but the cabinet closed its eyes to the end of milk quotas. Now it's time. There is an explosive increase in the number of cows. Companies now keep more cows that they have berths in the stables, purely to get more phosphate rights later. Overproduction by massive expansion is currently leading to dumping prices, not caused by a natural disaster, not by chance, but by short-sighted policies, supported by parties such as the VVD and the CDA, but also by agricultural and horticultural organisations, which claim to defend the interests of farmers. This is the debate we should not have had if there were a proper legal framework to limit growth. In the week before we dealt with the decision on ground-boundness, we received another warning from CLM that the law did not offer any opportunities to curb the market. The dairy industry is an industry dependent on the subsidy infusion. For each company, the taxpayer pays more than €24,000 per year in income support and subsidies. The added value of dairy farming in 2015 was around 3 billion euros. According to research conducted by Quivertree in 2016, the external costs of environmental damage caused by dairy farming are at least 2.3 billion per year. That's their most conservative assessment. According to these researchers, a more realistic assessment brings costs to at least EUR 7.5 billion per year. At least, and compared to 3 billion euros added value. It is therefore far outdone by the costs that society has to bear annually. Then, of course, the question is: what does it get? Dairy farmers who desperately travel to the Pope to tell about their misery and suffering from animal suffering because more cows have to produce more milk. The usual dairy farmer has placed his hopes on the growing and recovering economy and more free trade. But as the economy recovers, land prices, commodity prices for animal feed, fuel prices and not to mention bank interest rates for loans are also rising. So the margins remain small. Although common milk is very cheap and the price difference with organic milk has increased, consumer demand for organic milk continues to grow. This is an important signal for the common livestock sector, which is nevertheless intensifying more and more. Unfortunately, the Dutch cow is facing the same future as the laying chicken and the meat pig. ZEMBLA showed exquisite athletes, cows, who are literally milked and discarded with concentrated feed based on imported soy, without ever seeing a whey. The Secretary of State wants a sustainable dairy farming, but how can this be translated into the system of phosphate rights? Is he going to introduce an integral system in which both nitrogen and ammonia, as well as grazing and animal welfare are integrated? The phosphate rights system is now detrimental to farmers who have no manure surplus, such as organic ones, compared to the big growers. I'd like to get a reaction to this. With fewer animals, less manure, less problems. Only the introduction of a system whereby numbers of animals are linked to land, grazing and closed loops offers opportunities for the future for farmers. The Secretary of State must intervene, because all the vows of the sector to counter growth itself have come up against a tragedy for farmers and cows. I'd like to get a reaction to this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mrs Thieme has made her speech and it is starting to look a bit like Van Kooten and De Bie's opponent. The animals are here and we have the manure. At some point it will be asked to extract phosphates, because they are primary necessities for humans and animals. But if I make such a proposal, the Party for Animals will vote against it. There's got to be some second best stuff. So even if you are against everything, support the second best stories that have nothing to do with animal suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	What kind of stories? We are in the Dutch Parliament, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	I agree with you very much, but you can say so officially, also in Dutch. I am, like you, one of the warriors against English words, but this is simply said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	Maybe I can clear it up a little bit. What Mr Graus wants, and that is in itself noble...... is to try to preserve phosphates, as they are very valuable substances. How do you do that? You do that by collecting manure from animals. But if manure is deposited in the meadow by the animal, you can't use it. With this aim, animals must always be kept in a stable in order to achieve real efficiency from that manure and to be able to have as much manure as possible, which can then be processed so that phosphates remain. So what Mr Graus is doing with all good intentions is that animals have to stand around the year because otherwise we cannot use that manure in a cost-effective way for phosphate extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	I disagree. If I were a farmer myself and had cows, I'd put those cows in the stables at night because of those sick idiots out there. No animal stands with me at night in the meadow because there are sick idiots out there who circumcise the animals, scratch them, sexually abuse them and I know what's going on. That's why I'm in favour of animals going into the barn at night. That's where you can extract the manure. Besides, you can even have a servant pick up the manure from the meadow. It's really worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	The manure fermenters that are going to receive a lot of subsidies are costing taxpayers a lot of money, while the brown electricity is not green electricity, because cows emit a lot of methane gases, which means that the climate gains that you might be able to achieve with manure fermentation will disappear. Cows are incredibly environmentally unfriendly, unfortunately. Because we want to keep so many cows in the Netherlands, it has become a climate-unfriendly form of livestock farming. We should do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	Can I ask you something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	Go ahead. As long as you put it short and sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd been there twice. That's why I sat down nicely. Mr. Geurts started laughing about picking up those cow paws from the meadow by a servant. I also know that costs a lot of money. However, it is important that when the animals are inside, at least you can collect the manure. This has to be done at a central point in order to be able to remove phosphates; I have already discussed this with the previous Secretary of State. That's what the Party for Animals is voting against again. So it's never really good with you, you're really an opponent, for you and for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	I'm not an opponent. You must speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	Our link to Kees van Kooten's Counterfeit is that Van Kooten is listduwer of our party. In that sense, he is well aware of that. The whole tendency to green up dairy farming by linking so-called manure digesters to it, which would allow us to produce green electricity, is in fact greenwashing. It is unsustainable, it causes a lot of environmental problems and it has many disadvantages for animal welfare. That's what you're trying to do a little bit better by linking a dung digester to that. But fertilisers, as I say to Mr Graus, also pose a danger to the environment and cause an enormous amount of odour nuisance. So let's not do that. Let us make sure that we put the human dimension first: no more cows than we have land. That way we can make sure that there is a future for that farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	No, you can also say something about that in your own term, Mr Graus. We're not gonna keep going. We're not gonna keep going. It's done now. Thank you very much, Mrs Thieme. I call Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	A point of order? You will only have the opportunity for a point of order if it is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	It is certainly a point of order, because I do not want it to be in the Acts. I have spoken about the extraction of phosphates and not about manure digesters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	Sorry, this is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	That is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	No, this is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	This is a point of order, because this is the way it gets wrong in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr Graus, what is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	My point of order is that I did not say it as Mrs Thieme summarised it. I was talking about the extraction of phosphates and not about manure digesters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	This is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	For me, that is a point of order. Maybe not for you, but for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	So anyone here can say anything to the interrupting microphone. If you disagree, and I give you all the space, you can say that in your own contribution. The fact that someone is given the floor immediately when he says that something is of the order is not going to be misused for substantive statements. I call Mr Geurts of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is proud of Dutch farmers. We see that many family and family farms in dairy farming want to continue with their beautiful trade and transfer a beautiful farm to their children. That is why many have invested in land, buildings, milk, cows and/or manure processing. However, the ink of the General Measure of Governance on soil-related growth is not yet dry or the phosphate rights system is on top of it. The CDA is very concerned that the policy is being implemented so fragmentedly. Regulation raises expectations and generates investments that also need to be recouped. The accumulation of regulations is hitting these families hard. I note that problems are being pushed forward because there is no government vision of dairy farming. Does the Secretary of State realise enough that the longer the uncertainty lasts, the more painful the intervention becomes for family and family businesses? The latest phosphate right letter was illogical in design. On the one hand, there is a strong effort to keep the processed manure out of the phosphate ceiling and to maintain derogations. On the other hand, concrete proposals are being made to remove 4 to 8 cows per 100 from all dairy farms and are being deployed on a phosphate bank, which threatens to give rights to possible left-wing hobbies. This does not mean that young farmers will be chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	I would like to ask Mr Geurts whether he would like to apply a little bit of self-reflection to the positioning of the CDA on this dossier; perhaps even a little more than a little bit. When in 2010 and 2011 the question was topical whether we were going to abolish the milk quota, there were reports from the PBL stating that this would not go well and that this would lead to an increase in production, which would not be within the environmental rules. The CDA was in the government back then. Mr Bleker was in the Agriculture post, with Mr Koopmans as expert pur sang here in the Chamber, but it could not be discussed. Does Mr Geurts agree with me that the CDA itself, in its administrative role, has been to a large extent the cause of the current misery among farmers and that Mr Geurts and his CDA do not serve the interests of farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	First of all, I will take the compliments for Mr Bleker and Mr Koopmans. I'll pass on the compliments, too. Secondly, the CDA is often run for many years. We have ruled the country for many years. The accusation is that all the evil that is currently coming to the sector is because of what the CDA has done in the past. That's bullshit! Twenty years ago it was decided to abolish the milk quota. In the years to which Mr Grashoff refers, China was a great tractor. Our farmers developed because there would be freedom, but everyone knew that the CDA also said that there would be a ceiling at some point. That's a lot faster than everyone thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	The 2011 PBL report simply warns one-on-one about the situation when the milk quota is abolished. That was topical at the time, although it was discussed for 10 or 20 years. There was then a government in which the CDA was in the responsible position. At that time, therefore, under the motto 'prevention is better than cure', measures could have been taken to prevent growth from exceeding the phosphate ceiling. That's a failure. Will Mr Geurts at least agree with me that this was not done at the time, despite the information that was available?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	"PBL" stands for Planning Office for the Environment. You'd rather not use abbreviations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	I absolutely do not participate in this frame of GroenLinks, because there were also all kinds of plans for manure processing. They are all in the pipeline, but especially the supporters, the council members and the members of the Green Left make it difficult for farmers to invest in them in various provinces. I see Mr Grashoff grinning a bit here, but he too is part of this problem. I would also like to hear in his term what solutions he has, and not just references to what has happened in the past. That doesn't help these farmers' families at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	I note that in the provinces where Mr Geurts points to GroenLinks, the CDA is generally in Deputy States and not GroenLinks. I wish we were in a position to stop this. I would like to do that, because then we could go to real and other solutions. That's what I'm gonna come up with in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	I haven't heard another question. I'm gonna be careful about that. A phosphate rights system seems to be needed to have a good story towards Brussels. The CDA is in principle opposed to a production system, because it increases costs and facilitates air trade. The introduction of phosphate rights also means that other investments are becoming more difficult. The CDA wants strong guarantees that the derogation will actually continue to exist. Therefore, the CDA does not want the generic discount to be fixed before the negotiations with Brussels on the Sixth Action Programme have been concluded. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do this? The CDA certainly cannot agree with the government's commitment that one in ten cows is taken away by the government in the case of family transfers. In this way putting young farmers at a disadvantage is scandalous. The CDA will table a motion on this matter in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	This was a nice line. Mr Geurts said that there must be a guarantee that the derogation will be regulated. I think Mr Geurts is also in favour of netting the phosphate ceiling, but shouldn't we settle that before we put in place another far-reaching system? Soon we will settle one, namely phosphate rights, and then the other will not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	I think we should wait and see what the Secretary of State has to say on this point. I have already indicated that the policy is being implemented fragmentedly. The ink of one policy document is not yet dry and we are moving on to the next. We have also had this debate on the land-based growth of dairy farming. I think it is very important for the Secretary of State to make clear what his schedule for the negotiations with the European Commission looks like and to indicate how he interprets this point and how he deals with it. That's how I interpret your question. I think there should certainly be clarity before we can take a next step. It's just generic shorting, that's not what the CDA is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	In itself it is nice if that discount is postponed until there is clarity. I assume that the CDA will say: if that derogation does not go through, there will be no discount. However, there is still one step for that, because you already have phosphate rights, then you already have to pay and then you already have that cost increase. So shouldn't you first regulate the derogation and salt it in the phosphate ceiling? Shouldn't you be introducing phosphate rights after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u48	The first part of Mr Dijkgraaf's interruption is: no derogation. Then we have a completely different story here, because then phosphate rights won't save us, unless we cut down a lot on family and family businesses. That is what I was talking about in the interrupting debate with the SP. The SP makes a distinction: those parts of the family companies do and those parts do not. It can't be. As far as the rest of Mr Dijkgraaf's interruption is concerned, I think that we in the cabinet simply need to clarify what this is about, because we need to be clear before we can take any further steps. I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u49	I have two questions for Mr Geurts. He just indicated in the interrupting debate that he wanted to be clear with the Secretary of State. I believe that this debate, and certainly the legal treatment, can lead to this, but what is the CDA's position? Was it not Mr Geurts who asked on behalf of the CDA for clarification on phosphate rights? I'd like to get a reaction to that. If I have heard Mr Geurts correctly, he has difficulty with the marketability of phosphate rights. Or did I misunderstand that? If he has a problem with that, what is his alternative, or what could the CDA say could be an alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u50	This interruption contains two questions. In the first part, the VVD spokesperson asks me: we are not happy with phosphate rights either. I'm saying that's what she's trying to project on me. So would you like to help us come up with something better? Mrs. Lodders should have done that when she started it. It is Mrs Lodder who has always said that she does not want phosphate rights. It's the VVD that's in the cabinet, so don't blame the CDA for not having an opinion. No, the Cabinet rules and the Chamber controls. I'm not going to solve the problems that Mrs. Lodder is causing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u51	I'm really stunned right now. I hear Mr Geurts say that the CDA has no opinion on dairy farming. He also blames the Secretary of State for having no vision for dairy farming. I will explain in my speech how the VVD views this. It is and remains a very difficult choice for us, but I will make that point in my own contribution. I think it's kind of weird that the CDA is diving about phosphate rights or not. Please let Mr Geurts come up with a solution, let him indicate how he sees it, otherwise he will really be empty-handed. Mr Geurts talks about family and family businesses. Well, he's really sending it back now. Furthermore, my first question is still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u52	Yeah, yeah, I'll pay attention. But let's do this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u53	I'm gonna start with that first part, about marketability. I have just said that it is very important to think about young farmers. This marketability now has consequences for young farmers. I do not agree with the idea that when a family is transferred, 10% of it disappears. Furthermore, there is also a skimming component in marketability. That skimming component goes into a jar. If that goes to left-wing hobbies, I disagree. If we continue with this, it will really depend on the story and on the law today whether the CDA is going to support the phosphate rights system, then a choice must be made, then we must certainly consider how to help young farmers. That's what I wanted to say about marketability. I now turn to what Mrs Lodder said about the lack of vision. Yes, I blame the cabinet for not having a vision. What is in the government agreement on agriculture and horticulture? Relatively little. We see that the VVD has held up this discussion together with the PvdA for a few years. The dairy farmers are the victims of this. Then don't blame me that the CDA doesn't have an opinion! No, I'm dealing with the phosphate rights system. If the VVD had not abolished the product boards, then the Dairy Product Board would have had a method, a regulation to counter the supply of milk. That would have been possible. Mrs Lodders can now say no and say that she does not agree, but her party has been one of the main supporters of abolishing product markets. With this, she has knocked out the dairy farming tools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u54	Mrs Lodders, you are standing at the interrupting microphone and saying'shortly rounding', but I have a bit of a problem with the problem that you did get an answer but that you do not like that answer. But you're being addressed. Let's just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u55	I would like to point out that Mr Geurts has highlighted two elements in his reply to the question of marketability. My conclusion is that, for the rest, he can agree with the letter. I am sure that we will come back to the vision of dairy farming in a later debate, but Mr Geurts is standing here empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u56	I was surprised at the statement that I'm empty-handed. Because I had the cathedral in my hands. I'm going to go over the marketability. That's the third component. We will come forward with a motion in the second term to make it as transparent as possible. Anyway, we're just waiting for the debate. We still have a second term. We now have four minutes' speaking time. I can't handle everything in those four minutes. That won't hurt me. We are also going to have a legal procedure, in which speaking time is unlimited. Well, by then, if it comes to that, we'll wait and see. I'll serve Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u57	That was a glowing speech by Mr Geurts. I've listened to it with pleasure. He doesn't want to risk the derogation. I don't want to. This is true for this period, but there are already negotiations about it later. Does the CDA wish to maintain the exemption position associated with the derogation for a length of days? Will the CDA continue to oppose the Nitrates Directive for a long time? Or can we, the CDA and the SP together, move quickly towards the 170 kilos of nitrogen per hectare of the Nitrate Directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u58	I know that Mr Smaling is a fairly good soil expert. There are some subjects you might have to take less chances on, but I still want to try something. The soil in the Netherlands is exhausted because more minerals are extracted than are currently being introduced. If Mr Smaling says that we have to go up to 170 kilos, exhaustion will go even faster. We have good soils in the Netherlands and good farmers who can deal with them. That does not mean that I want to put the derogation aside immediately, because we need it now in order to reach 250 in a large number of areas. We received a petition on water quality last week, and I shall return to that in my contribution. I think it is very important that we take a closer look at this. Now it turns out that the pressure in the western part of the Netherlands is very high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u59	It's interesting. It is not suitable for debate here, but I would like to see with Mr Geurts how we can improve soil quality without always reaching such an end above the agreed values of the European directive. That's possible, because it's also in the nitrogen phosphorus potassium ratio, the micronutrients, the soil life and so on. I'd like to talk about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u60	It'll all come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u61	I also see with Mr Geurts' colleague who is the CDA's spokesman for the environment and energy, a shift towards a sustainable society. I would like Mr Geurts to speed up the agricultural dossier in the same way as Mrs Agnes Mulder. Is he gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u62	I will pass on the compliment to Mrs Agnes Mulder. This is just CDA policy, so all the members of the political groups stand for it. Whether or not this is a whole change of heart compared to the past? I think we're making the same sound, but maybe at a slightly different pitch. The forthcoming negotiations on the derogation will be crucial for dairy farming. What preparations does the Secretary of State make for the negotiations on the next action programme? Has he been in contact with the Commission? Is he able to lift a tip from the veil yet? What are the key points of the cabinet in the negotiations? I have already spoken about this in the debate on the interruption with Mrs Lodders. What investigations did the cabinet have carried out? Does the Secretary of State propose measures to maintain the derogation? Is he also looking at measures outside agriculture to further improve water quality? Actually, we need to get back to the base, the water quality. We must move away from this accumulation of legislation and look at a simpler system for reducing the amount of nitrate in water. The CDA wants the next action programme to have a hook to enable a simple system instead of references, obligations for processing, soil-basedness and phosphate rights. How does the Secretary of State view this? Is he willing to make an effort to do this? I have 35 seconds left for this important debate. The CDA still has a lot of questions. Is the Secretary of State prepared to come forward with proposals for flanking policies for dairy farming? How is ownership of phosphate rights arranged between tenants and traders? Is it possible to rent or lease rights under certain conditions, not to roam, etc.? Is the State Secretary prepared to allow options and reference periods, for example the average of 2014, January-July 2015 or 2 July? Are there multiple possibilities? The devil is in the details. When does the law come to the Chamber? I also believe that dairy farmers and their families have a future in the Netherlands. The CDA sympathizes with them in this very uncertain time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u63	I agree with a lot of things, but I do not understand why Mr Geurts is attacking me through the social media; I very much blame him for that. The PVV was the only party that has voted against Natura 2000 since 2006 and against this terrible PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. The PVV also voted against phosphate rights and even suggested other solutions. However, Mr Geurts has made all this possible. The CDA has tied the farmers to that EU stumbling block. Mr Geurts, after ten years, offers them the helping hand on behalf of the CDA. I can't understand that. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u64	First of all, I would like to say that Mr Geurts is starting the debate with Mr Graus through the social media. Well, if Mr. Graus the Twitters are equally equal, he will conclude that they are a factual reflection of what has been said. What Mr Graus is doing now, as I said in the Twitters, is pretending that there is no European Commission, is pretending that there is nothing going on and that we are independent in the Netherlands to do something about it. Well, Mr Graus, the reality is that we are dealing with a European Commission. Maybe we can agree to make that interest of the European Commission a little smaller, but don't pretend there is no regulation that we have to abide by and do not call for civil disobedience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u65	I'll share that. That is why I have often supported best cases with the men's brothers of the SGP and the CDA second, and we have even worked together for the benefit of farmers, gardeners and fishermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u66	I would ask those in the back of the Chamber to continue their discussions outside and not to disturb the debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u67	Or they're gonna go get a stuffed cake in the back of the members' refectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u68	Let us have a serious discussion, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u69	I just gave a good tip whatever they can do. I would not have done this interruption to Mr Geurts if it had not been so common on Twitter. Because I thought that was vulgar. I have to respond, because I think we should discuss this as a Chamber and not on Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u70	I just responded to it. I'm sure I'm willing to read those Twitters, but I don't feel like I've reacted vulgarly. Far from it. So that's far from me. It is true that in the past we have worked with the PVV on a number of issues, but yes, that is not possible on all fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u71	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u72	Yes, Chairman, at the latest. We're members of the States General. Mr Geurts knows that we are the only party that has tried to prevent this. We've done everything we can. We have tabled motions, all of which have not been supported by the CDA. I find it very lame when a CDA is sending out a can of beer in his hand just before the weekend, like we wouldn't stand up for the farmers, while we were the only ones who stood up for the farmers from 2006.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u73	This is a very nice interruption, isn't it? Mr Graus knows me a little better than he does today. He was talking about "with a can of beer falling down"; now the people who know me know that I don't like alcohol at all sometimes, unfortunately, so that I have to disprove that image in public. In the Acts of the Chamber, I have now made this unveiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mr. Chairman. It has been a year since the milk quota was abolished. That this would lead to an even greater manure surplus in the Netherlands was obvious. The three legal constraints of recent years have not prevented us from shooting through the phosphate ceiling in 2015. Now there's another lock on the door. This is necessary in order to preserve the costly derogation, but it is an acidic message for dairy farmers who have grown responsibly and ground-bound. Hardly put: a model of political shortsightedness, but also a lack of solidarity within the sector. We could have seen this coming together. The predecessor of this Secretary of State shielded a year ago with animal rights. Thanks to a motion by ChristianUnion, CDA and SGP, several options were developed and the choice was made on phosphate rights. It is an understandable choice, because it focuses on the production of phosphate, but the shrinkage of dairy farming by 4% to 8%, which is now needed to get back below the ceiling, is a tough blow to dairy farmers, especially with the current low milk price and the obligations they already have, for example to buy extra land. My group too would like to stress that dairy farming is a wonderful sector and that it has certainly not earned the situation it is currently in. Last year, the Christian Union Group called for some of the space under the phosphate production ceiling to be reserved for land-based companies. Unfortunately, this room isn't here anymore. Can the Secretary of State undertake that these companies will at least not be partially but fully compensated for the discount? What message does he have for land-based companies that have bought land in recent years to grow? Do they now have to buy expensive phosphate rights when they can dispose of all the manure on their own land? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, these companies will soon be at the forefront of the distribution of rights from the phosphate bank; please respond. Of course, it would be nice if we could go back in the direction of the ceiling by means of the skimming on transfer. The question is whether we can achieve a lot in a year if the Secretary of State wants to proceed to a generic discount already in 2018. In any case, the Christian Union Group does not want to see any skimming in family transfers, i.e. intra-family transfers, which means that young farmers have to start catching up immediately. Is the Secretary of State prepared to spare family businesses in this respect? Why didn't he choose to step up the skimming rate to avoid speculation and get below the ceiling faster? Another important point for the Christian Union Group concerns the way in which rights are made negotiable. This has everything to do with the future of the sector. Now that growth space within the dairy sector is becoming a scarce resource, we need to think carefully about how we distribute this growth space. Trade through the free market leads to speculation, in which capital-intensive companies in particular can buy rights. My group considers this undesirable. Is the Secretary of State prepared to regulate the transfer better, for example with a private stock exchange system? When granting rights, only the date 2 July 2015 applies. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to allow dairy farmers to choose the average number of cows between 1 January and 2 July 2015, if they had just a few fewer cows on 2 July? What possibilities does he see for a limited transfer of rights between sectors? There is now a proposal that needs further work. Only when the details are clear do farmers really know where they stand. But only when we have the derogation for the new period will we know whether this proposal is sufficient for the European Commission. I think it is good that the Secretary of State is not going to wait for the final phosphate figures, but is already discussing the proposal for phosphate rights with the European Commission. The Christian Union Group is very keen to be guaranteed that this will actually work. I'd like to get a commitment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr. Chairman. What have this cabinet and its predecessor made of it? They have made a mess of the beautiful sector that dairy farming is by not seeing ahead, by not acting when necessary, by delaying measures and by moving along with complex deals with organisations such as LTO, which, in the end, let me say, do not serve the real interests of livestock farming. More cows, less grazing, shot through the manure ceiling, a falling milk price, farmers who are still in ignorance: so far it's just a game with losers. It was already clear that the milk quota would be abolished. We were not in favour of it. The signals all pointed in the direction of: pay attention, if you do this then it can also go completely wrong. Up to and including the predecessor of this Secretary of State, there was still some kind of naive confidence in market forces. It was like a VVD Secretary of State. It was ready within a few months: the phosphate ceiling had been shot through and measures had to be taken. In the meantime, we are a long time ahead and there is now a plan on the table that still has to go through a legislative process before it can be implemented at all. It is really terrible for dairy farming what is happening here. One thing is clear: the government has failed here, from front to back. Now for the phosphate justice system that is in place. GroenLinks would very much like us to study more fundamentally and comprehensively on a more comprehensive system of what I call ground-based animal rights. Of course, I have read the letter from the Secretary of State and put that comparison together, but it does not go deep enough for me. When I talk about land-based animal rights, I am also slightly broader than just dairy farming. If we in the Netherlands wanted to deal with the patchwork of regulations around our livestock farming and move towards a simpler system, we would have to think about this fundamentally: a size of livestock that is related to the ground, so that we no longer have to have a complicated PAS, no complicated rules on grazing, no complicated regulations on stables that are and are not permissible, and no separate phosphate rights system. If we could achieve that with each other, I understand that this cannot be done overnight, then we would be making a profit. In any case, the phosphate rights system proposal now before us will not receive the support of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. However, we would like to take part in the forthcoming legislative process in the question of whether there are a number of things to be done in a next best form. There are a series of questions. Why is organic dairy farming not excluded from this system? Organic dairy farming does not contribute to the problem, but only to the solution, because manure is produced under the derogation ceiling. Why do we have to take the blame for the problem? Can compensation for extensive dairy farmers really be quantified? I'd like to see the Secretary of State's calculations. It should not be a question of 'approximately compensating', but of real and guaranteed compensation for extensive livestock farming. Could the Secretary of State consider making a 100% ground-based requirement in the case of transfer of phosphate rights? At least we'll move in the right direction. Would the Secretary of State also like to ensure that regulations are put in place to give priority to farmers who practice grazing and grazing birds in the issuing of phosphate rights from the forthcoming phosphate bank? Finally. My group is also concerned about this system and about whether young farmers can still get involved in a system where money is being pumped around again. I would like to quote my predecessor of the CDA, Mr Koopmans. He said that a system of marketable animal rights is mainly the pumping around of money for paper and not for farmers. That's the lesson we should learn with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u76	Mr. Chairman. Dairy farming faces huge challenges. It's like a competition here who's most guilty of the situation we're in right now. It is not a matter of either nature or farmer, it is a matter of both. We need nature and farmers. Having said that, I'll start with phosphate rights. After the failed law responsible growth dairy farming it is good that the Secretary of State intervenes. However, I do have the necessary questions in his plan, such as the lack of compensation for extensive dairy farmers, the free marketability of the rights and the criteria of the phosphate bank. First of all, I come to the compensation. The Secretary of State wants to limit the effects of skimming on extensive farmers, but it is doubtful whether he will do enough. Let's say all dairy farmers would be extensive. Would the partial ceiling be exceeded? If that is not the case, why are the extensive farmers not exempt from skimming? It sounds pretty unfair. I am considering a motion on this point. If there is really no escape from total skimming, I ask the Secretary of State how much such a farmer with and without the right to leave room for net annual income returns. Then there's the marketability. I fear that farmers will have to choose between cows and land in free trade. This is going to encourage intensification, and I do not think that is desirable. Linking land to the purchase of phosphate rights can be a solution. Anyone who wants extra cows usually needs more phosphate rights and therefore also needs enough land to feed those additional cows and to be able to drive out or process the corresponding excess manure entirely on their own land. How does the Secretary of State view this? Does he also see the advantages of the choice of regulating at once both the phosphate ceiling, soil-based growth and grazing and at the same time reducing the regulatory burden on farmers? In the letter from the Secretary of State, I read that he will draw up criteria for the phosphate bank. I'm very curious to hear what he's thinking. What is the role of environmentally neutral agriculture in the long term? The Secretary of State is about to negotiate the next derogating decision in Europe. He wants to get rid of the phosphate ceiling and such a static ceiling is indeed old-fashioned. It can be really smarter and more focused on customization than it is now. Reuse of minerals and reduction of the use of phosphate ores are important, because despite our surplus, these minerals are becoming increasingly scarce. So we have to recycle! Can the Secretary of State send the Chamber a detailed plan for such a clever ceiling? This must then be a plan which takes into account not only production but also reuse, without increasing the risk of too much nitrate and methane and animal diseases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr. Chairman. Let us be very clear that the PVV is for Europe. I say this because the position of the PVV is sometimes misinterpreted by government officials. We are against the European Union, but we are against trade. As I said earlier, Switzerland had a free trade agreement with China rather than the European Union, and that is sooner than all countries within the European Union. We are fighting against obstacles. We continue to fight for our sovereignty and our farmers, gardeners and fishermen. We do not want all these obstacles. We do not want to be a province of Brussels. Since 2006, the PVV has introduced that we do not know any manure surpluses, even though the Brussels bureaucrats think so. That's not true, because there are shortages. We filed a motion after motion, in which we asked manure not to be regarded as waste but just as brown gold. And what's been laughing for years, guys! Really, I'm literally laughed at. It was only in 2014 that people woke up in The Hague and it was only then that a more frequent motion was adopted by me. I asked in this motion to extract phosphates from urine and stool. Let it be very clear that this is why we are against phosphate rights. It's the brown gold! I even asked the minister's predecessor for a phosphate bank and phosphate storage. HP/De Tijd wrote about the most remarkable motion. And I said it. Everyone laughed at us, including administrators, but now even Minister Kamp of Economic Affairs has his mouth full about extracting phosphate from human and animal feces. So we have already mentioned this at a time when, in my opinion, no one seemed to know that phosphate is a primary life requirement because it binds oxygen. The Chinese no longer supply us with phosphates, because they say "own people first." That is what I should say: 'Our own people first'. There's nothing wrong with "our own people first," but the Chinese just do it and say, "Fuck you. It is for our people." The Moroccan mines will be depleted, or the Moroccans will be strategically engaged in phosphate extraction in the future. We must remain independent, even if they can still deliver. In the case of a primary need for life as phosphates, there are three requirements: security of supply, affordability and, where possible, independence from abroad. I say 'where possible', because sometimes we will have to take things from abroad. We will never be completely self-sufficient; I understand that. Where possible, we need to be independent and in the case of phosphate we can do so now. Furthermore, we see this as yet another Brussels intervention, which makes it impossible for farmers to survive. This applies in particular to dairy farming. I refer to phosphate rights, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, the PAS, as we call it, but also Natura 2000, which we were once the only ones to actually vote against, and over and over again, for years. We predicted this! In all my speeches since 2006, I have predicted this misery. I was always put away as a tokkie, while they had better put me away as Nostradamus, instead of some PVV-tokkie who was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u78	On many subjects I am skipping interruptions towards the PVV, because they are completely pointless, but Mr Graus is absolutely an exception to that. As a general rule, I know his contributions as extremely substantive. I can see that now. That is why I have the following substantive question to ask Mr Graus. If you're talking about phosphate as a scarce raw material, you can go both ways. You can go the way you have it and extract it, withdraw it, and then use it one way or another. Or you can choose a closed cycle. If you close that cycle, like for example in organic farming, then you don't have that import dependence, then you don't have a phosphate surplus and you don't need that very complicated process of withdrawal at the moment. In addition, you have much more opportunities to put the cow's animal welfare first. That is one thing Mr Graus very much appeals to. Does he agree with me that such a concept of a closed cycle is preferable to the removal of phosphate from a surplus of manure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u79	You can also be very hard against that as an animal friend. It's happening on a smaller scale. We'll never stand in the way of those people. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if that's possible. He has hundreds of officials who can find out, while I myself have one and a half employees and a horse's head. I can't be a part of that. That's why I'm asking questions. I put the question to the Secretary of State as to whether that is possible at all and at what time. We have never created major obstacles to the closure of the cycle, especially when it comes to the natural cycle, unless Mr Grashoff means that organic farmers should be privileged to normal farmers, because we do not think so. Neither do we. We do want equality for everyone. An organic farmer can often get more for his products. Mr Grashoff knows that too. In the future, you will find that consumers are increasingly asking for organic products. That's how it works with supply and demand, worldwide. We just don't want that to be subsidised with taxpayers' money. If that is what you mean, Mr Grashoff, I cannot support you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u80	There is a lot of subsidy going to the agricultural sector. We all have our mixed feelings about that. There is also a great deal of EU support for the agricultural sector. If you stop that morning, I think it will go wrong, I will say with reference to the EU position of the PVV. In itself, it is now clear that the market model of organic farming is significantly better than that of traditional agriculture. So if there is already a dependence on subsidies, it is much lower in organic farming than in traditional farming. Does Mr Graus agree with me, regardless of biological or not, that a system of extensive farming and soil binding in which circles are closed should be preferred?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u81	In any case, together with other parties, for example Mr Geurts's, we are very much in favour of small family and family businesses and of those horrendous megas, those factories, if that is what you mean. Among the small family and family farms you also have organic farmers. But you're asking me questions that the Secretary of State should actually answer, because I'm not sure what you're saying is true. That will have to be confirmed or denied by the Secretary of State before I can give a good opinion or vote advice to my group, should you table any motions on this matter. It's really not clear to me whether it is as you say it is. There was also a question about subsidies. As long as we are the largest net contributor to the European Union per capita and per capita, we are also in favour of trying to get as much money as possible from our farmers, growers and fishermen, let that be clear. It may end tomorrow, because in the end it costs more per farmer than it brings. Everyone's gonna find out. I'm 100% sure of that. That's my answer to that. I've only got a few more minutes, I see. I would also like to ask the following question. If the Netherlands loses its derogation, the cost of manure disposal for cattle manure will increase by minus 116 million, which according to LTO-Netherlands amounts to €10,000 to €15,000 per farm. Do those numbers make sense? How will the Secretary of State ensure that the Netherlands retains its derogation? I am ready, but I have one final comment to make to Mr Geurts. He is indeed virtually a total abstainer, although he once ran off with my wife in Berlin; but I will not go on about that now. I've made a lot of trips with him, but I have to admit that I wanted Mr Geurts to feel what it feels like to have dishonesty or nonsense about you. That happens to me more than the average MP, and that hurts and hurts so much! Now he feels what it's like. I know he doesn't drink alcohol, but I'd like him to feel what he actually did to me. So I actually wanted to give him a taste of his own medicine. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u82	I hear all that's possible. Mr. Geurts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u83	I have photos of that event, so if people need it, I want to show it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u84	Let us confine ourselves to the serious side of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u85	I'm sure that's what I'm about. This was also serious, because I have some explaining to do at home. That's what's in the Acts now, and they can read it. The point is that Mr Graus often refers to his predictive abilities, but if you say something a hundred times, that does not mean that it is. Perhaps Mr Graus could also reflect on the fact that he voted against a motion on equivalent manure measures tabled by us last week. As a result, agriculture in the Netherlands in particular is not now in a position to pursue a good policy on minerals. Can Mr Graus explain that? This was also the subject of the Twitter discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u86	I believe that dairy farming is on the agenda, not arable farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u87	For those who follow this: I have referred to our Twitter accounts, where this discussion has been held. I am not going to do it now either, because Mr Geurts knows that I could not support the motion because of certain words and things that were in it. I explained that to him. He also made a request to the European Commission. We don't want that. We want less European Commission. We don't want to make requests. We must be sovereign. We decide what we want here. I told Mr Geurts that I could not support the motion, but he tabled the motion without amending it. And then he says: look, Mr Graus does not support our motion! I think that's silly, with all due respect. I think that's childish games.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u88	It's obvious now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u89	Yes, Mr President, but I just don't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u90	I just want to have a serious debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u91	This is a serious debate. These are the facts. Besides, he said something about my predictions. Everything that I have predicted since 2006 is now coming out and is stuck in the Acts. Dive with me once in the Acts of the Chamber, and I'll show you because everything is stuck because of those good people who are always here. Nowhere is there to find that I would have spoken an untruth right now. Everything I've said has come true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr Geurts, if you need to respond, you can do so. Of course, you can also drink a non-alcoholic snack together around drinking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u93	I'll wait and see when you're gonna suspend for lunch. I have argued, and this has to do with each other, that everything related to minerals is linked to dairy farming and farming, that there was no other way to do this for legal reasons. I explained that to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u94	Oh, come on, man.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u95	I have explained this; it is now in the Acts. Then don't hang on to your own right because it isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u96	Discussion closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u97	No, Mr President, I have to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u98	No, I said, discussion closed. Mr. Graus, we're not doing this. I'm calling the shots here. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u99	It was bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u100	I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mr. Chairman. The SGP is against the phosphate rights plan submitted. We're missing a total package. We lack the guarantee that phosphate exports to countries with a lack of phosphate will be deducted from the phosphate ceiling. We're missing sight of a new derogation. We're missing extra phosphate space to avoid generic discount. Those are all reasons not to go with the Secretary of State. I would like to explain these reasons, Mr President. Where's the whole package? Phosphate rights do not provide cleaner water. The use standards, processing obligations and ground-related requirements are solid locks on the door. Where does the stacking of rules stop? We see sufficient possibilities to complete action programme and derogation in such a way that water quality actually improves. Moreover, much pollution is unfairly placed in the hands of agriculture. As Mr Geurts said, look at the Mesdag Fund analysis. I would like to say to the Secretary of State: go to Brussels first with a good story. What about the phosphate ceiling itself? We are now working out four times more phosphate in agriculture than in 2002. Exports of 5 million kilos of phosphate grains to countries with phosphate poverty is fantastic, isn't it? Here companies are turning their necks for less phosphate production and leave agricultural land in Ukraine and China to grow. No, phosphate exports to low phosphate countries deserve a ribbon and should not count for the phosphate ceiling. Brussels simply cannot be against this, as I say to the Secretary of State. Do we have a guarantee for a new derogation? Soon we will have both expensive phosphate rights and no derogation. Where is the additional phosphate space to prevent bankruptcy and unfair expropriation? A company with a new but empty stable suddenly has to cough up €250,000 for 50 extra cows. It's priceless. Companies that have hardly grown are being generically reduced. Unacceptable. At the very least, this requires more phosphate space, by netting the phosphate ceiling, through limited conversion of pig rights into phosphate rights through a tender scheme. In short, without total package, without netting, without a view of derogation, without additional phosphate space as far as we are concerned, no phosphate rights. And there's more to it than that. Why one reference date? If you happen to have given young cattle to someone else that day, you can whistle at those phosphate rights and you will be €50,000 poorer. Why not opt for a reference period, for example in the first half of 2015? In the case of company takeovers, young farmers, as well as others, are likely to be skimmed; companies which have hardly grown in recent years are still subject to a generic reduction. Exhalation continues, even if phosphate production is long below the phosphate ceiling. The SGP does not consider all these forms of expropriation acceptable. By the way, how long does the Cabinet intend to continue with the law system? In any case, an end date would help with tax depreciation and price printing. Isn't the glasses of phosphate efficiency too pink? One year is the benefit 0%, the other year is 15%. How do farmers get final manure accounts every year? The SGP does not agree with the Secretary of State's proposal. Last Saturday I was allowed to leave cows in the meadow, a beautiful sight. The cows of farmer Bert deserve not a new paperwork, but a plume. We are proud of dairy farming. So let us give them room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yesterday, I received a message from the SGP Group that 'phosphate duties are going completely in the wrong direction'. It says: discuss the international netting of phosphate with areas where phosphate is still deficient. I thought that was an interesting development. We tried that at Natura 2000, but it didn't work. Why would it work here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u103	Because it's weird that it doesn't work out. We're talking ourselves into a problem here. It is a problem in itself if you produce too much phosphate, but our problem is the solution for many countries. Last Friday, I had a presentation by professors who showed me a ticket from all over the world. In many countries, especially those with strong population growth, there is phosphate shortage and therefore poverty and hunger; there are major problems. Let's make our problem a solution for the others. Then it's a win-win situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u104	I thought it was a very interesting development. Maybe we should talk about it under that non-alcoholic lunch. When will it be sufficient for the SGP to agree to any phosphate rights? Which ticks should turn green, or orange considering the batch colour of the SGP, in order to agree to phosphate rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u105	I've mentioned a lot of things and a lot of things are important. I am talking about the takeovers, the reference period and you name it. However, before we start to think positively about such improvements to the current system, at least the derogation and the netting should be regulated in the phosphate ceiling. If that's not settled, we're not going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u106	I have a very nice plan for the SGP Group, if she is so concerned about the manure surplus here and the deficit in other regions. Then let us not produce all these animals here, but just in the regions where they are consumed. Then we have no manure surplus here and we give the people there the chance to earn a fair living. Win-win!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u107	I would advise Mrs Dikkers to visit the same professors to hear what the food production problem is all over the world. If only it were that simple: you know what, we're moving the food production of this very productive region, which produces milk, meat and so on with relatively little environmental damage. It's not that simple, Mrs. Dikkers. The people there are thrilled that we are producing that food for them. Let's be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u108	I know our SGP colleague as a good connoisseur of the Bible. There will be nowhere in the Bible that it is really much wiser to cut down the Brazilian rainforest, grow soy there, then ship that soy to Europe, feed our pigs and then export the pigs. I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u109	Now that the Bible is at stake, the clock is of course in complete danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u110	I would reserve an hour for the answer, but I'm afraid you won't allow it. These are, of course, very different discussions. We are also in favour of as much regional production as possible. I would recommend Mrs. Dikkers to read the book Job. This shepherd, who had many sheep, camels and other animals, began with 11,000 animals and ended after a very difficult period with 22,000 animals. A lot of people have eaten a very good sandwich of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr. Chairman. I begin by expressing my appreciation for the dairy sector, a sector where many people work hard every day. It is the farmer who takes care of his cows, the milk factory that makes high-quality products from milk and the trade, transport and logistics that these dairy products market and ship worldwide. The Netherlands is known for its high-quality dairy products, on which we may be bunch. The sector makes an important contribution to the BV Nederland. In addition to high-quality products, the sector is also very innovative. The Dutch farmer is able to make a mineral concentrate from manure or extract phosphate. Phosphate is a scarce raw material, necessary for the production of food. But there is no room for these innovations at the moment. The Brussels regulations block the innovative power of the Dutch farmer. We must no longer see manure as a problem, but instead take advantage of its added value. This brings me to the Secretary of State's proposal to introduce a system of phosphate rights for dairy farming. The VVD does not welcome this proposal. At a time when global demand for food is increasing, the Netherlands imposes a restriction. At a time when the market situation is under pressure, entrepreneurs are faced with new regulations. In his letter, the Secretary of State outlines a number of steps, the introduction of phosphate rights being the final step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u112	I see an interruption by Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u113	On 3 August 2015, Ms Lodders opposed the introduction of phosphate rights. On 28 August 2015, she found that Secretary of State Dijksma was was wasting her time with phosphate law. On 28 March 2016, she found phosphate rights a better choice. Can Mrs. Lodders explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u114	Because a lot has happened in the last few years and there is now a letter in which phosphate rights are seen as a final piece, after first resorting to a number of other measures that are necessary for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u115	Shall we first wait for Mrs Lodder's substantive story on this point? Then I'll give you all the space after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u116	I would like to ask my very important follow-up question. The same article says: "The Secretary of State has a good story." What story? What do you think is the right story?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u117	That's pretty simple. There is a letter proposing a number of measures, with a strong commitment towards Brussels. So that is indeed a link with the derogation negotiations, which unfortunately does not wait for a derogation decision. We've been talking about this for eight years, and now for the first time we're talking about removing the phosphate production ceiling and clearing manure. That's a big profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u118	It is clear that behind the scenes there has been an incredibly poor press in the coalition, with some of those agricultural lobby clubs present. That has resulted in three-quarters of a year's delay. Does Mrs Lodder agree with me that the VVD has completely overlooked the interests of farmers? People have been left in total uncertainty for three-quarters of a year, or even longer, with all the financial problems involved. Does she take responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u119	I don't see a link in that. I think it's good that there's a good letter now. We started this discussion with the introduction of animal rights. I think the sector would have been a lot further away from home. There is therefore a good letter, with a start to good and solid negotiations in Brussels. I will say something about this later, because there is a huge burden on the shoulders of this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u120	Does Mrs Lodders agree with me that since the period 2010-2011 the VVD has over and over ignored the whole issue, then frustrated the process, and that means that this sector has been in total uncertainty for how long, that there have been people who have invested enormously in a situation that you, together with the CDA and later with the PvdA, could know was wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u121	Mr Grashoff, I have done nothing. You said "you," but I didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u122	Excuse me. Mrs Lodders is, first together with the CDA and later with the Labour Party, fully responsible for first ignoring the problems, then she frustrated the process and therefore made sure that I know how many farmers have invested in something that is ultimately a dead end. Does Mrs Lodders take responsibility for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u123	The answer to the first question is no. Let me explain. We still support the choice, which was also advocated by the VVD, to abolish the milk quota. I very much support the efforts to remove the phosphate production ceiling. We must no longer see manure and manure production as a problem, but we must use the positive elements of it, such as the amount of manure that disappears from the Dutch market and the mineral concentrate. This has already been discussed in various inter-ruption debates. Mr Grashoff should take an example of this. GroenLinks is right in this Chamber to call for all kinds of environmental measures. Let's look at the Dutch agriculture and horticulture, for God's sake. These are world champions in carefully, sustainably and innovative production. Take an example of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u124	The last meal, Mr Grashoff. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u125	It is nice to bounce back, but the main thing is that there is an issue that has been ignored for a very long time and that Mrs Lodder is now focusing on a solution that is once again a dead end. If the European Commission says in six months' time: you are going into the forest with your increase in the phosphate ceiling, because the Netherlands is not in order, then Mrs Lodders and the VVD are again responsible for recreating a lot of uncertainty and for a high level of dead sparrow for livestock farmers. I'll get it if there's not a farmer who's gonna vote for the VVD anymore. That's quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u126	I'm gonna try again. Mr Grashoff is here on a regular basis, and perhaps even more often his fellow party members, in favour of all kinds of environmental measures. The greenhouse emissions of the Dutch cow are 1.27 kilograms of CO, while global emissions are double. What does GroenLinks want? It wants to reduce livestock farming in the Netherlands, remove the border and then increase the environmental problem. Let us take an example of Dutch agriculture and horticulture, a world leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u127	A year ago, the VVD was very negative about phosphate rights. Now the VVD is positive. The difference is, Mrs Lodders says, that the derogation, the increase in the ceiling and the netting are discussed. I think that these matters are being discussed is fantastic, but so much is being discussed in Brussels. Why not a tough warranty? If there is that derogation, if there is that netting, or the ceiling increase, then the VVD will be positive. What we're about to see is, talk, talk, talk, and the phosphate rights continue. The VVD can't sign for that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u128	I would have liked this dependence on the adoption of the derogation and the netting, but we must also be realistic about the time aspect. If you want to engage vigorously in negotiations towards Brussels, you will have to meet the current conditions of the derogation rules. If you don't, at least you're 2-0 behind. That has been my group's consideration of following this route. I will ask the Secretary of State a number of questions in a moment and consider tabling a motion to report on the progress of those derogation negotiations. It is not just a blank piece of paper towards Brussels. There is a firm mission on the shoulders of this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u129	This is exactly where it goes wrong. The change will be given away before we start talking in Brussels. This means that Brussels wants to have all kinds of other measures for a new derogation and possible netting. The agricultural sector is more than tired of it. If you have to, please link it to those things. Last year, Mrs Lodders herself said that this is madness. Now the Secretary of State puts an aspirin in the letter and the patient would be cured. We can't do business like this, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u130	I think that Mr Dijkgraaf is dealing with it a little too easily. If we could link the derogation to the introduction of phosphate rights, it would be preferable, but timewise that would be difficult. The negotiations are now being prepared and will take place later. At the moment, we do not comply with the rules as laid down by Brussels. If you want to be able to negotiate with strength, you will now have to meet the conditions that are required.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u131	It is a choice of the cabinet, of the VVD Group and of the Labour Party, to be sucked into that time trap. Where is the letter from Brussels that says: by 1 January you must have that law, otherwise you will have a problem? Where's the letter? That's just this cabinet's own choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u132	I don't share that opinion. At least, Mr Dijkgraaf gives a different interpretation. We are currently dealing with our derogation agreements with Brussels. We're not gonna live up to that. We've been shot through the phosphate ceiling. Once again, I think it is a gain that we are now making that combination in the negotiations towards Brussels. That has not been discussed before. Mr Dijkgraaf also knows this, so let us make a strong effort towards Brussels. I hope that Mr Dijkgraaf will also take part in this in order to ensure that our dairy farming can develop further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u133	I see that Mr Smaling wishes to interrupt. Mr Smaling, I am looking at the clock and I would suggest that you wait until Mrs Lodder has given the arguments already announced. Then you'll have a chance to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u134	It is a difficult choice to proceed with phosphate rights, but it is necessary to comply with the current rules that Brussels sets. As I have just said, my group is satisfied with the commitment towards Brussels: the maintenance of derogation, the release of the phosphate production ceiling and the space for innovative developments. So, in order to strengthen the negotiations, you have to comply with those rules. That means there's work to be done for this Secretary of State. Does he realize the pressure on his shoulders to achieve a good result? No derogation means a further reduction in livestock with all the consequences for farms and not least for employment and the contribution of this sector to the Netherlands, for example. Can the Secretary of State outline the timetable for the derogation negotiations? Is the Secretary of State prepared to share the documents on the deployment and negotiations with the Chamber after the negotiations? A number of speakers have already mentioned that last Tuesday a report was produced by the Foundation Mesdag Zuivelfonds, entitled Water quality and livestock farming. This is a worrying report whose conclusions have a major impact on the derogation negotiations. After all, water quality is a leading factor in the derogation negotiations. Can the Secretary of State indicate this report in relation to the derogation? A number of substantive questions will be discussed later in the course of the discussion of this report, but for now I have the following questions. Are there sufficient measuring points to measure the actual phosphorus load on surface water from agriculture? Is it true that other sources such as sewer collapse or natural torment are not taken into account? And is it true that 40% of the waterboards have tightened their standards? For the sake of time, I have a number of other short questions about the proposal. Can the Secretary of State indicate when the law will be sent to the Chamber? Will this be timely for the law to enter into force on 1 January 2017, as announced in the letter? Can the Secretary of State indicate what the allocation of latent space will look like? In other words, are companies that have never had the intention to grow appreciated with phosphate rights? The transfer of phosphate rights removes 10% of the rights. The question has also been asked by a number of other colleagues: is this skimming also taking place when father or mother is taken over by son or daughter or any relationship? I can be brief on the transfer of rights between sectors. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is not the case unless there is an explicit request from the sectors. It is fine to create this hook in the law, but this cannot be used before that point as far as my group is concerned. We'll talk about the law later. For my group, it is important that steps are taken on the European dossier. I trust that this Secretary of State will give a positive message about this in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u135	Mrs Lodders started by saying that she is proud of the dairy farmers. I expected her to start apologizing to the dairy farmers. We are looking back at a period in which dairy farming is exposed to a high degree of uncertainty. The VVD is now for something she was against first. Expanding farmers have been hunted for expense and are now paying the price. Land-based farmers are going to pay the price. Why doesn't Mrs Lodder just admit that she and her party just made one big mess of this file? Because unlike that, I can't express it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u136	That is an explanation by Mr Smaling. My group believes that dairy farming is a sector to be proud of. This sector deserves some room. We are indeed at a time when unfortunately there is no such space. I have indicated a number of elements which allow this area to exist, even within the current environmental conditions of ours and of Brussels. The rules which push Brussels in our direction or how we have agreed to them do not meet the requirements of our time. Innovation's in trouble. All these aspects should also be addressed by Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr Smaling, I am very much in favour of clear language, but 'one big mess' does not have to be in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u138	Normally I'm very neat; maybe that's why I notice. I would simply appreciate Mrs Lodder's apology, because if you look back, you just have to find that this has gone completely wrong. I can't imagine which dairy farmer is going to vote for the VVD. It would be a credit to Mrs Lodder if she now admits that she saw this wrong, both at the top of the sector, which has begun to expand, and at the bottom of the sector, which still has room for manoeuvre and now has to participate in that system of rights. Apologize, Mrs. Lodders, and then you'll have some goodwill back in the Chamber. I don't get angry often, but I find what's happened here really I won't repeat the words very much. In my view, that is due to your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u139	I therefore strongly disagree with Mr Smaling; that may be clear. Worldwide demand for food is increasing, especially for animal proteins. This demand will increase in the coming years only because of the growth of the world's population and also because people in countries like China and India are spending more. We do not only have to produce this in the Netherlands, but we can play an important role in this. Mr Smaling and I will not agree on that. I am very sorry about that for Mr Smaling, but the dairy farming industry deserves room for action in the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u140	I would like to come back to that "good story" in my first interruption with Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u141	Will you be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u142	I'm gonna try, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Lodders points out that we have very strict legislation and that we do not yet comply with the rules. However, we are above the ceiling. Mrs. Lodders says we can use mineral concentrate. That is not recognised and the pilots are pretty much destroyed by this cabinet, because the extension that would come is not in it. Just before that "good story": Mrs Lodder also says that there are eight Member States that are failing and that those Member States are allies. What firm guarantees has Mrs Lodder received to step in and believe that this cabinet is going to take care of the dairy farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u143	I have already indicated a number of times that this link has not been established in the last eight years. Mr Geurts is also well aware that the predecessors of this Secretary of State have repeatedly indicated to us that they are going to argue for a mineral concentrate and for an extension or a less stringent nitrate directive from Brussels. In this letter, that link is first laid out. This Secretary of State is going to Brussels with a great deal of work. We will follow that very closely. I assume that the cabinet takes the dairy sector seriously. The sector is not having an easy time right now. No derogation means a reduction of perhaps 20%, but I do not have to explain that to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr Geurts, this is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u145	I note that no firm guarantees have been given to Mrs Lodders and the VVD Group. I'm getting a déjà vu feeling. Under Kok I, the Law on restructuring pig farming entered into force in 1997, under the control of the PvdA, the VVD and D66. That was skimming. How does Mrs Lodder deal with the generic discount? Is she going to prevent a generic discount? By the way, the CDA voted against that law at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u146	We're going to deal with the law in the second half of this year. Then the generic discount will also be discussed, but on the basis of the letter and the sum sum, I do not think we can escape a generic discount to be able to produce below the phosphate ceiling. So there will be a generic discount. As far as my group is concerned, it must be as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u147	Mr Dijkgraaf, do you have a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u148	Yes. This is really absolute... I'm looking for a proper word. This is just not right. If that netting and the export of manure, which is already 5 million kilos, take place properly, there is no need for a generic discount at all. That's exactly what the letter says. On the one hand, the Secretary of State says that he is going to talk in Brussels; on the other hand, he says that a generic discount is needed. Those two statements don't add up. If you arrange this in Brussels, there is no need for a generic discount at all. Make yourself as a VVD hard for that and make sure those farmers are not generically cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u149	In dealing with the legislative proposal, we are talking about the deadlines that will be incorporated into the law. In the letter we read that the generic discount will be implemented in 2018. It will therefore be announced in mid-2017. The Secretary of State has indicated that he will inform the Chamber running that route about the derogation negotiations. In my view, I have already announced that I am preparing a motion to record the moments when the Chamber should be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u150	What the VVD is doing now is getting all the buttons ready to give that discount. If we don't get the netting, we're gonna lose 8%. If the derogation does not go through, we will see a further drop in the percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u151	You've said all this before. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u152	Why not simply ask the Secretary of State for a guarantee: netting, derogation and otherwise no phosphate rights? Then the VVD is transparent, otherwise we let ourselves suck into a trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u153	In order to be able to negotiate vigorously, you have to comply with the rules laid down. If not, we will lose the derogation anyway. I have already told Mr Geurts that losing the derogation will reduce the sector by 20%. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u154	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party sees the future in sustainable, extensive dairy farming. Raw feed comes from the region and manure is run in the region. Bulk production, more, more, more, and production focused on distant export markets are not the way we see it. The road is ground-bound, with attention to the environment, respect for the environment, animal and nature, cows in the meadows and farmers who have a good sandwich on it. That is why the Labour Party would like to see the better life mark of animal protection used in dairy farming. The animal welfare star system has proved very successful in the meat sector and could also be applied very well in the dairy sector. Then the consumer has more to choose, the farmer can earn more, and because of differentiation, there is not just bulk. That's how we can book animal welfare gains. The Netherlands is therefore innovative and is in line with a growing awareness of animal welfare, including among people in other countries. The star system has proved its success and deserves to be continued as far as we are concerned. It is a private initiative that is not in the hands of the government, but in which the government can be supportive in creating framework conditions. I ask the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Animal Protection and all relevant sectors, to make an inventory of the possibilities and bottlenecks. I imagine they might be in the barn grant system. I ask the Secretary of State to write us a letter on this well before the budget debate. Now back to the phosphate system. I have a few more questions about that. It's good that it's here now. Looking back on the whole process, we would have liked to regulate this better in the treatment of the Act responsible growth dairy farming. I'm looking back at a trial that I'm not very proud of. It's caused a lot of unrest. However, we should have organised this better. It's a good thing there's clarity now. I am pleased that the Secretary of State will compensate land-based farmers in the follow-up steps he is taking. Those who have not contributed to the problem should not be punished for it either. Is there still room for a separate position for organic farmers in this context? My group would like to see this. The criteria for the issue of rights still need to be laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u155	I appreciate the honesty of the Labour Party; I have not heard it from the VVD. Mrs Dikkers is more or less apologizing for the messy process that has put many farmers in a mess. The clarity has been waiting far too long. Now we see that land-based farmers who can easily dispose of the manure on their own land are the victims of the present system. What does the Labour Party say to those farmers? Do they indeed have to pay for what they did not cause?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u156	The colleague of the Christian Union has heard no excuses. I said that with the knowledge of today, we could have incorporated the phosphate rights system much better in the treatment of the Responsible Growth Law. In retrospect, we should have integrated it, and I regret that we did not do so. If Mrs Dik sees this as an excuse, that's fine. The Secretary of State's proposal includes compensation for land-based farmers: first, a little more is being distributed and, if there is to be a reduction, these farmers will not be cut further. That seems like an honest system to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u157	There is indeed a sentence in the letter from the Secretary of State in which he states that he will partly compensate the land-based farmers. My group would like the discount not to end up with them and that these farmers, who often have latent space on the farm, are in the front line if phosphate rights are distributed. Do we have the support of the Labour Party for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u158	I would very much like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to this. The colleague of the Christian Union also asked the Secretary of State in her own speech. If there is a motion on it, we will look favourably at it, but of course we also feel connected with the cabinet's position, to express it so lovingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u159	I appreciate the PvdA fraction's self-reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u160	That's the right word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u161	I'm trying to help you, Mrs. Dikkers. My specific question is very brief. At the moment, business transfers in the family are being skimmed. Do you agree with the CDA that we should put an end to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u162	Nothing is being skimmed at the moment, because there is no law yet. So it's still a little premature to anticipate that. The CDA colleague also asked the Secretary of State how he looked at this. I am therefore curious about his reaction to this. If there are any motions from the CDA Group, we will look favourably at that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u163	I would like to ask a few more words about this. I would like to know what the PvdA Group itself is about. When we also found this in the land-based dairy farming, we tabled an amendment which then passed. I hope that when that law comes, I won't have to do the same thing again. I would therefore like to hear the opinion of the PvdA Group on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u164	We would very much like the phosphate bank to be filled. If you make it very spacious because you don't have to roam off because of family in the first, second, third, fourth and fifth degrees, then you'll never get that phosphate bank filled. In the end, even you and I probably think so. We would therefore like to limit it. I want to wait for the Secretary of State's response first because I want to know how many degrees it will be. The criteria for issuing the rights from the phosphate bank are still to be laid down, as we read in the letter. We would like pasture to be given a prominent place in this and consider tabling a motion on this, but perhaps the Secretary of State will share our concern on this point and accept grazing as a condition for issuing. The letter also states that there will be a ministerial arrangement for the afroom rate. We prefer that to be legally anchored. Will the Secretary of State undertake to do so? Does the Secretary of State see room to remove the divisions between the poultry, pigs and dairy sectors? Mr Smaling mentioned this as well. I can imagine that removing these bulkheads will give air to sectors which would very much like to shrink or shrink and that it will also give room for dairy farming. We do not understand that the Secretary of State in Brussels wants to focus on releasing production ceilings. It is not the case that the Netherlands has shown in recent years that we are doing so well. From 2008 to 2010 and again in 2015, the phosphate ceiling was exceeded. We also risk exceeding the nitrogen ceiling. What does the Secretary of State expect from that? That we go to Brussels and say: we haven't always kept up well, but we don't want a production ceiling now? I can hardly imagine that. For the Labour Party it is clear: a future for extensive dairy farmers where animal welfare goes hand in hand with a responsible sandwich for the farmer. We're looking forward to legal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u165	It's crowded at the interrupting microphone. Apparently everyone wants to compliment Mrs. Dikkers with "her hand in her own bosom."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u166	It is about "your own hand," Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u167	This cabinet period is coming to an end. If you as a PvdA are going to see what the successes in the field of agriculture and nature have been over the past few years, I think you will soon be finished. How does Mrs Dikkers feel about that? We have seen this happen for a few years and Mrs Dikkers herself says that this should not have happened. Her colleague of nature gives away a spearhead about the pleasure hunt to the VVD. What has actually been the intention of the PvdA intervention on the agricultural and nature dossier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u168	I would just like to look at the President to see if he will allow me to have a great deal of consideration of the blessings I see of having a PvdA Secretary of State in the Cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u169	What I found very positive about Mr Smaling's input was that he thought it should be done quickly, but I may have been misheard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u170	Let me give you an example: we would not have had the AMvB on the responsible growth of the dairy farming that anchors the soil density without the PvdA in this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u171	Let's stick to the subject, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u172	This was the subject. The bridge was meant to ask Mrs. Dikkers the following. Together, as left-wing parties, can we table motions to keep organic farming out of this system and to keep the ground-bound part where there is still room for placement out of the system? Then can I count on her?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u173	Let's see what the Secretary of State comes up with. Mr Smaling will also understand that in the marriage we have made with the VVD, on which we are generally very satisfied on many fronts, we also want to take into account the wishes of the VVD Group. I'm not entirely free to go along with everything, though I'd like to. Mr Smaling knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u174	Then Mr Grashoff. Or Mrs. Koşer Kaya? They were at the interrupting microphone at the same time. Then Mrs Koşer Kaya goes first, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u175	Mrs Dikkers started with a mea culpa and indicated that the process did not go very well, with all the results that had been achieved. This has to do with a compromise between VVD and PvdA, the coalition members. Now there is another proposal that may become a law. As far as extensive farmers are concerned, there is yet another compromise: a little help, but they may still be on the blisters. Same for phosphate rights. At the last point, releasing the phosphate ceiling and looking at how to better shape it, I hear a different sound from both. Apparently, no compromise has been reached on this. What's it gonna be? That's my first question. My second question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u176	...which gets a lot shorter,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u177	If you do not interrupt, Mr President, the question will indeed be very brief. My second question has to do with the mea culpa. Will the compromise which now seems to arise not lead to long-term problems again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u178	Mrs. Lodders. Excuse me, Mrs. Dikkers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u179	That marriage isn't that good, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u180	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u181	We have a different idea of letting go of the production ceiling. That is not something on which we must reach a compromise. In his letter, the Secretary of State stated that he would like to propose the release of the production ceiling to Brussels. I have my doubts about that, so we asked him a question about it. I do not remember Mrs Koşer Kaya's first question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u182	The first question was about letting go of the ceiling, about the cabinet deployment and about the VVD that would like it and the PvdA that did not want it. Will the result be a compromise on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u183	I just answered that. What was the other question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u184	My other question was my second question. My second question had to do with Mrs Dikkers' mea culpa. Now there is another compromise proposal for legislation to be adopted in the near future. Will this not lead to all kinds of problems again, because neither one nor the other is chosen? Sometimes you have to let nature go first and sometimes the farmer, but you need both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u185	I think there is a good compromise. A compromise has been reached in the sector itself, to which Nature & Environment has contributed, as well as the basic network. The Ministry has worked very hard to reach this compromise. I can live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u186	The latter triggers me for a moment, because I think the nature organisations have left it and they do not carry this compromise. That was one of the salient things I noticed, but perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to clarify this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u187	Was this your interruption, Mr Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u188	No, that was a little tail from the last one. I'll keep this brief. I believe that Mrs Dikkers wants extensive farmers to be compensated and not to suffer. That's what we want. It is stated in the Secretary of State's letter, but no guarantees are given. We are going a little that way, but does Mrs Dikkers agree with me that that guarantee should be there and that we should be inclined to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u189	I think the Secretary of State's letter is clear on that. It says that a little more space will first be created for farmers who are more extensive. If generic cuts are to be made, they will not be cut further. I think that's a fair system. I have just shared this in an interrupting debate with another colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u190	But I noticed in the letter that the Secretary of State indicated a little bit about the mechanisms with which he wanted to compensate, but that he said he could not guarantee that the extensive farmers would not suffer from this. That's just what it says. Does Mrs Dikkers agree with me that we should close that properly? Farmers who do not contribute to the problem should not now pay for the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u191	The compromise contained in the letter and carried in the sector is fine with me. I can wear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u192	The Secretary of State has chosen to make phosphate rights freely negotiable on the market. This gives phosphate rights a price tag. In the event of scarcity, this price will be greatly increased. That's all money that doesn't go into things like good stables, animal welfare and so on. Does the Labour Party also think that we should look at, for example, a private stock exchange system to prevent the prices from becoming sky-high and that they can only be paid by large intensive companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u193	You have drawn attention to this in your contribution. I think it is a good point and I am very curious what the Secretary of State says about it. There's a letter saying why one system was chosen and the other wasn't. A lot of thought has been given to that, and I assume the Secretary of State will explain it. I've been directing this question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u194	I can understand that from the point of view of Mrs Dikkers, but I am very curious about the opinion of the Labour Party. I often hear the Labour Party stressing the importance of animal welfare, the importance of sustainable stables and so on, and of course we can only spend our money once. If it goes into phosphate rights, you can't spend it on other things. That is why I brought this point to the attention of the Labour Party once again. My group will table a motion, counting on the support of Mrs Dikkers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u196	Was that your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u197	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u198	I hear Mrs Dikkers pleading for the Better Life label, also for dairy. I have two questions about that. First of all, I am a little surprised that Mrs Dikkers is bringing that up today. We saw not so long ago a motion on the calf longer with the cow, we are talking about compulsory grazing and now this again. Mrs Dikkers wants to see framework conditions set, albeit with the sector...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u199	This will be an argument rather than a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u200	How does Mrs Dikkers look at the pressure of regulation and this sort of thing that ends up on the shoulders of farmers? Secondly, is the sector waiting for this? Did Mrs. Dikkers ask you to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u201	Mrs Lodders is a dairy farmer herself, so she knows that it is good to differentiate and to produce more than just bulk for the processing plant. I would like the consumer to have more choice and the farmer to have more choice for his marketing. That way he's better off pricing his milk. That really helps the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u202	That is not an answer to my questions. We have had a build-up of rules over the past period. This one's coming up now. It's just being put back on the farmers' plate. How does Mrs Dikkers feel about that? Is the sector waiting for this label? Did Mrs. Dikkers check that out? For the Acts, let me just say that I am not a dairy farmer. My husband owns a dairy farm, but I'm not part of the company, and I'm not part of it. That seems to me to be very careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u203	Fine. Let me point out that the sector is working on it. Animal protection, Stichting Natuur & Milieu and the dairy farmers are in the process of establishing a star system for dairy. That seems to me to be a very good initiative. It's not an accumulation of regulation. Ask the pig farmers. They are very pleased with the initiative, because it has given them the opportunity to create added value. You can do that in the milk. Mrs Lodders, who does not have a dairy farm but lives on a dairy farm, should at least appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u204	That brings us to the end of the first term of the Chamber, unless Mrs Lodder has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u205	I note that there will be no answers to my questions. I checked with the sector and the sector indicates that it does not need this label at the moment. So I wonder why Mrs Dikkers is advocating it. My appeal to Mrs Dikkers is: please leave this to the sector. They've already got enough for their choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u206	We didn't impose anything on the sector. We ask the Secretary of State to take stock of the possible obstacles, point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u207	In doing so, we have come to the end of the first term of the Chamber with a severe delay. The Secretary of State will answer after lunch.
