ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. "Every child is entitled to a standard of living sufficient for his or her physical, mental, intellectual, moral and social development." That is stated in Article 27 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Parents have the primary responsibility to take care of this, but the State must support parents in this. Children do have the right to a life free from poverty, but they do not always get it. Since the start of the crisis, more than 100,000 children have been born in the Netherlands who live in poverty. Now 423.000 children live in poverty in the Netherlands. Is there enough food in the house? Is the heat on? Is there any good clothes? These are questions that many children living in poverty are asking themselves. They're ashamed to bring home friends because they don't want to show their home situation. They don't go to birthdays because they can't buy presents. They are really not pathetic children, but the circumstances make them less likely to develop than other children with the same talents. It may even mean that children do not have food or clothing or that the heating is not important. This is the result of all the neoliberal austerity policies of recent years. Inequality is growing enormously, and so we also see child poverty growing. But do you know what the worst part of all is? Because of the policy of this Secretary of State, it is for the help you receive, which municipality you live in. For example, a study by the National Government last week showed that a family in Schiedam can count on four times as much support as a family in the Noordoostpolder. I can't explain this. Can the Secretary of State explain to those families in the North-East Polder that they must live in poverty and that they get four times less help?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologize for running in like this, because I didn't think your Chamber would be so quick this afternoon. This is indeed a very important point of attention. With Mrs Karabulut, I believe that children in the Netherlands should not grow up in poverty and that you should do everything you can to prevent this. We have done so from the cabinet and we are doing so, because for all children in the Netherlands and their parents, of course, child benefit, the child-related budget, the childcare allowance and the income-dependent combination discount have increased. This means that low-income households make an average of €1,000 on an annual basis. However, Mrs Karabulut is asking for more, and rightly so. Not only the government is doing to help, but also the municipalities must and should expect that. We, the Empire, have also helped the municipalities to do this. We have made funds available for this, the 100 million in poverty funds. We also help the municipalities by showing the child packages. The Children's Ombudsman is closely involved. Fortunately, more and more municipalities are actually going to use the child packages. We continue to promote them, but I must also say in all honesty that it is part of our decentralised unitary state that we have the same rules for all Dutch citizens at a state level, but that it can happen at municipal level that municipalities and municipal councils lay down other tools. That's what happens with the child packages. The cabinet believes that this is good in itself, because in your municipality you can best see what people need. So it may be that people and children in the municipality of Schiedam need other things than in the municipality of Noordoostpolder, but the basis is right and what a child can otherwise obtain from the municipality is of course to the municipality itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	This cabinet and the previous Rutte cabinet have 50 billion cuts in their name. I find it disturbing every time the Secretary of State wipes out that fact, which increases inequality and poverty. That's one. It'd be awesome if she recognized that for once. Secondly, I hear the Secretary of State simply say to that family in Noordoostpolder: 'Yes, you need less swimming, less clothing and less food than the other family; that is up to your congregation; you seek it out; that you are a little hungry is just so in the decentralized unitary state'. Will the Secretary of State ensure that, in accordance with the advice of the Kinderombudsman, all municipalities in the Netherlands introduce a minimum child package with the necessary equipment to participate, to eat, to buy decent clothes, to swim and to enjoy a little culture, in short, to be a child? Is she gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	In fact, I'm already doing that. Not only do I promote the child package in all the municipalities, also on the basis of the motions tabled by Mrs Karabulut here. One of these motions is the Yücel motion. But the Chamber also adopted an amendment by Mr Van Dekken and Mr Yücel, who asked us to make EUR 5 million available to give more children from low-income families the opportunity to participate in sports activities. We have provided additional funds to the Foundation for Learning, the Youth Sports Fund and the Youth Culture Fund. In any case, structuralally extra money is available for the Sports Impulse, which I just mentioned. In short, we have done a great deal about this and we will continue to do so, because with Mrs Karabulut I too believe that we should help children everywhere in the Netherlands. Finally, I asked the Children's Ombudsman to carry out further research into reducing child poverty, because he carried out a very valuable study in 2013. That's where the child package came from. I'd really like to know about the Children's Ombudsman whether it's really making a big deal out of it. That's why I asked for this follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	Does the Secretary of State understand that people are getting tired of this and that the rumor is that "klijnsmanizing" is a method to get around the hot stuff and above all not to settle anything? I heard this story from the Secretary of State last year. Then she was going to talk and promote, but people don't need promotion or a PR story. People need commitment. The Secretary of State should have taken care of it by now, but her commitment should be to at least guarantee that the child package will be available in all municipalities, so that there are no differences. She should promise that to the people. The resources available are totally inadequate, but they must be earmarked. I have another suggestion for the Secretary of State to which I would like to receive a response. For example, it can charge 1% extra tax to millionaires, to people who have a wealth of more than a million. This will bring us EUR 4 billion. Then we can solve child poverty in the Netherlands. Isn't that a nice idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	I have just started telling my story that low-income families are improving €1,000 thanks to government policy in 2016 and beyond. I do not think that is a small amount. That's one. Secondly, I have also said that we all consider that child package to be very valuable. We take municipalities seriously in the sense of promoting the child package. I also see that more and more municipalities are really using that child package. I am pleased about that, because combating child poverty is absolutely essential. I have our fellow executives in municipalities pretty high. I also know that there are SP aldermen who think very well and also act along. Those co-drivers are doing everything they can to tackle child poverty. They have their responsibilities and I have my responsibilities. This is absolutely not a public relations story, I'm just standing in front of this and we do things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	I am very proud of our aldermen in Amsterdam, Heerlen and Oude Pekela who are mentioned as examples by the Ombudsman, but I am ashamed to mention three or four other municipalities in which children have less. The Secretary of State should be concerned about this rather than telling falsehoods here, namely that all people have improved €1,000. Please go and talk to the people more often!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	I think the Secretary of State is very sorry that she did not support our amendment at the time in order to make more money available for children in poverty. However, my question is different. In three decentralisations, municipalities work together, for example in South Holland. Nine or ten municipalities work together in this context. Is it not an idea to sit down with the aldermen and the VNG and see if the facilities around children can be levelled a bit, at least at the level of the cooperating municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	Luckily, that's already happening. I sit very regularly with the VNG and many aldermen at the table. They are certainly in the process of synchronizing matters at regional level. However, I also think it is important for the UNG to stand for the fight against child poverty. I see that the VNG is promoting more and more, including on its website and otherwise, the child packages, and that is a great asset.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	The Secretary of State and we share the view that child poverty must be combated; there is no misunderstanding about that. I also share Mrs Karabulut's frustrations, because we have been here for years at the interrupting microphone or behind the speaker's chair to raise the issue. The Secretary of State just spoke about her responsibility as State Secretary to further achieve this ambition in municipalities. However, several studies have shown time and time again that one municipality is doing much more than the other and that these differences have now become large. Is it not time to take unconventional measures so that we can move a little further on our common objective of combating child poverty? Please, Secretary of State, don't come up with stories that child support is up et cetera, et cetera. I ask you to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u12	In the tax plans, Mr Kuzu knows them too, we have already looked above all at families with small wallets. I have just given a number of examples. Those families are really making a lot of progress this year, and I'm really happy about that. In this respect, I can reassure Mr Kuzu. However, with regard to children, we must continue to stress that efforts must also be made from the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u13	It is not about the measures taken at national level. It's about the following fact. The Secretary of State has reserved additional funds and made them available to municipalities through the Municipal Fund in order to further this ambition. Now it appears that some municipalities are doing more than others. I am not talking about the responsibilities we are talking about at the national level, we are talking about responsibility at the municipal level. We have the possibility of establishing with each other that the funds must be earmarked so that they are spent on the purpose just indicated by the Secretary of State. Is it not time to say: yes, we are finally going to do so, so that all the congregations, all the inhabitants, all the children under the poverty line are helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u14	This is not the first time we have heard this plea. I say again and again that I have real confidence in our local administrators, including the city council members, not just the aldermen. So I think that even if city council members are following this debate again, they should think very carefully about the question: how are our resources being spent and proposed by the B and W Colleges? It would be a really good idea if those city council members were to really look at the children in their city or in their village in the next budget treatment. I know that's what's gonna happen. So I am pleased that the Chamber wants to talk about this subject again so that we also radiate to all the municipalities in the Netherlands that we put this down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u15	I believe that municipalities neglect their duty of care when they do too little or not at all to combat poverty, especially when it comes to children. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to give us an overview of the municipalities involved. Which municipalities have little or no poverty reduction policies? Can the Secretary of State investigate a system to sound the alarm? In other words, where can citizens go if municipalities do not guarantee their social rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u16	Let me start with that last point. We have, of course, also seen this with the Children's Ombudsman, with the National Ombudsman and with all municipal ombudsmen. Citizens know the ombudsmen if I may express myself like this. That is also fine, because that ends up with us and with city leaders. That's a really good mirror that's being held up. So let me repeat that in this promotion for the Ombudsman institution. Ms Yücel asked for an overview on the fight against poverty by municipalities. We will soon come forward with the evaluation of the Municipal Debt Assistance Act, as has been shared with the Chamber. This will, of course, also play a role in this. Then we are going to make the cost-benefit analysis clear and insightful. So this is part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u17	The Secretary of State speaks a bit like a mate on a steerless ship. She sees it go wrong everywhere, she says that in so many words too, but she just lets it go wrong. She talks about the fence thrown at the municipalities and now there are differences she shouts: do what, do what, do what! My question to the Secretary of State is: has it now been deliberate policy to create differences per municipality and, if not, why does the Secretary of State not attract the reins so that poverty is combated equally in all municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u18	We all have, so Rich and Municipalities, the duty, I would almost say, to look very closely at all the children in our country. From the Empire side, we are really doing a lot to help families with children further forward. Municipalities also have a duty to help children. I'd almost say nobility is mandatory. Of course, it would be very strange if you would let city leaders all do exactly the same thing at that point. Of course, we have had this debate many times. If you lay down tasks and powers with municipal administrators, that means by definition that one municipality deals with them differently from the other. That in itself does not have to be wrong, because the situation in Amsterdam is, of course, different from that in Wassenaar, as Mrs Karabulut just referred to in the article. In short, in itself that is not wrong at all, as long as we ensure that the basis of our social infrastructure is the same and it is the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u19	The VVD Group has only one question: does the Secretary of State have any concrete signals that the desired customization is not delivered in municipalities? And if she has received these signals, has she contacted those congregations to talk to the alderman about how he deals with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u20	All the colleges of B and W and all the aldermen of Social Affairs and Employment that I have spoken about, of all kinds of signatures, have the fact that there is, of course, a need to do something about the fight against poverty. I've never spoken to one who said knowingly and knowingly: well, I wasn't thinking it for a moment and I'm not doing anything about it! So I can tell Mrs Nijkerken that that is not the point. It's just something that belongs to decentralisation. It is also up to colleges of B and W and to municipal councils in their control to really carefully check whether it is sufficient and whether it is adequate. I think those two matters really belong in municipal councils. Once again, I am also using this debate to underline that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then Mr Ton Elias will do the voting and the order of business, because I have a different obligation on behalf of the Chamber in the context of the EU Presidency. So good luck to you guys later.
