ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Van Laar, the author. He is supported by Mr Ton Langenhuijzen and Mr Daniel Templeman in trade-K in the defense of the bill. Welcome, too. How very nice to be able to address you from this place. As adviser to the cabinet, the Minister of the Interior and, in this case, in particular, Kingdom relations are present. Finally, in addition to the members of the House of Representatives, I would like to welcome the special delegates. They have been designated by the States of Saint Martin, Curaçao and Aruba. They've taken our place. Welcome aboard. You will also speak and that makes it a special treatment. I have some practical announcements. So it's about the treatment of a state law. This means that the special delegates have the right to speak. I have drawn up a list of speakers on which the Dutch Members of Parliament will take the floor alternately with the Members of Aruba, Saint Martin and Curaçao. Mr Sulvaran of the States of Curaçao, Mr Herdé, Mr Thijsen and Mr Bikker of the States of Aruba and Mr De Weever of the States of Saint Martin. In accordance with Article 17 of the Staff Regulations, contributions from special delegates shall have the character of providing information. In view of this, I propose to ask explanatory questions, if necessary. I give you the opportunity to interrupt at the end of a contribution and to ask questions. I would ask everyone to keep these questions brief and concise. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The debate on the bill will continue on Thursday. The initiative proposal was brought before the Chamber by the Member of Parliament Gerritjan van Oven in December 2000. In October last year, Mr Van Laar, you took on the defense of the bill. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u2	Mr. Chairman. Around this time the F-35 Lightning II flies over The Hague. This new fighter plane will continue its commitment to peace and security, because that peace and security did not come naturally. Yesterday it was June 6th. That was the date of D-day 72 years ago: the beginning of the liberation of Europe. The history of the war in Europe is known to many, but we are currently in this Chamber together with representatives of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. The role and importance of these islands may be under-exposed. At the time of World War II, Aruba and Curaçao both had a refinery. Of the three largest refineries in the world, two were in the Antilles at the time. During the war, the production of the Antillean refineries was greatly increased. Already in 1941, 80% of the total supply of aviation gasoline from the western Allies came from the Netherlands Antilles. From 1943 the oil was shipped to Great Britain in connection with the Allied landing in Normandy. In 1944-1945 75% of the oil fuel for the battle in the Pacific Ocean, the Pacific War, came from Aruba and Curaçao. Therefore from this place a common "masha danki" to the inhabitants of Aruba and Curaçao. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for Mr Van Laar. He took up this initiative proposal of state law to deal with it further in the Lower House after more than fifteen years. We are not dealing here with many proposals for initiatives, and an initiative proposal from a state law is a unique one. The VVD indicated in its report of 19 December 2001 that it took note of this proposal with appreciation. That appreciation is still there. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to maximise parliamentary involvement in the decision-making process of the cabinet. Self-employed General Measures of the Government (AMvRB) are decisions taken by the National Council of Ministers without parliamentary control. The VVD considers that this should be kept to a minimum. That is why it is right that this initiative proposal should restrict that space. It is good to see that the transitional period for the existing independent General Measures of the Government has been brought to four years by the initiator. In exceptional situations, this can still be extended by Royal Decree. That can certainly count on the approval of the VVD. The VVD is also satisfied with the fact that, in case of emergency, the possibility of having a General Measure of the Government still exists. Mr Van Laar has also answered our questions in the affirmative. The VVD is still concerned about the two-year period within which there must be a state law that will replace the General Measure of State Administration. The VVD sees the risk of a long legislative process, which will make two years too short for the creation of a state law. How does the applicant view this risk? For the VVD it is an important point. We realize that there will be limited use of independent General Measures by the Government, but if they are needed, that is for a reason. And if that reason is not resolved within two years, for example because other countries within the Kingdom do not want to cooperate, how does the author see the final outcome? Will the independent General Measure of the State Administration expire without a new state law? I would like a clarification on this point. Mr Van Laar concluded that this law did not completely resolve the democratic deficit at once, but it did make a small, but not insignificant contribution. Legislation within the Kingdom often consists of a process of small steps, to finally arrive at the final place. I also recognise that of my own initiative proposal, which will soon be dealt with in this Chamber. The VVD is certainly in favour of this proposal, but still needs a clear answer to its question as to what will happen after the two-year period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u3	Thank you, Mr Bosman, for stressing the important role of Aruba and Curaçao in the successful outcome of the Second World War. Yes, it is sometimes forgotten. Mr Sulvaran has the floor on behalf of the States of Curaçao. I understand he has a speaking time of about five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u4	Mr. Chairman. I believe that this is the third time that I have been elected as a special delegate. In 1996 this was done in the penshonado scheme and in 2009 in the treatment of the Consensus Kingdom Act for an autonomous Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. This is my third time. This is actually a democratic deficit. We have been discussing the democratic deficit between the various parliaments and governments for 20 years. In the last seven days, I've seen three efforts. The first is that we are trying in the IPKO (Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation) to come up with a joint proposal for dispute settlement. The second is Mr Van Laar's own-initiative proposal. The third is Mr Bikker's amendment, of which I am a co-signatory and which I shall deal with shortly. I think all three efforts are a positive step towards reducing the democratic deficit in any case. However, I have two reservations about Mr Van Laar's proposal. Firstly, the four-year period, with a possible extension by Royal Decree, seems to me to be a little long. I'm not sure about that point. Secondly, can Mr Van Laar give examples of special cases of an urgent nature? Finally. I agree with all three efforts. I think that we are making progress and that we can come to solutions. I would like to thank Mr Van Laar and Mr Van Oven, whom I know personally, for their efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak during this debate. The reason behind Mr Van Oven and Mr Van Laar's legislative amendment proposal is to achieve the primacy of the legislator in the Statute. The principle of the legislator's primacy is based on the principle of legality which assumes that the people must have a decisive role in terms of generally binding rules. The problem that Mr Van Laar and Mr Van Oven find is that the State Government has an independent power to issue General Measures of Government through Article 14 of the Statute. The State Government thus has the power to adopt such universally binding rules, without any legal basis being found in the state law. The parliament of the Kingdom is therefore put out of play. The proposal by Mr Van Oven and Mr Van Laar recognizes that the Statute, as it was written 60 years ago, does not satisfy the current belief that the Kingdom cannot be a rule of law without the fundamental constitutional principle of the primacy of the legislator. The legislator must be able to rule on generally binding rules and decisions. In December, a debate was held in this Chamber on the Disease Act, in which the government referred to the use of General Administrative Measures. That was severely criticised, and it was even spoken of removing the bottom of parliamentary democracy. Today we are talking about General Measures by the Government, but I miss the indignation I heard in December. I find that odd. Nevertheless, we support Mr Van Oven's and Mr Van Laar's desire to remove autocratic and undemocratic elements from the Statute. We can therefore fully endorse the ratio behind the legislative proposal, the lifting of the legality deficit in the Kingdom. We support the legislative proposal, but we do have important reservations about it. In its opinion of 21 March 2001, the Council of State drew attention to the problem that the Statute also affects in a different way the rule of law, the principle of legality and the primacy of the legislator. I quote from the opinion of the Council of State: 'When national laws are drawn up, the States of the Netherlands Antilles and the States of Aruba have a say, but no right of co-decision. The legislative proposal thus substantially strengthens the position of the Dutch Parliament, but not the position of the States of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba." However, the Council of State does provide a solution. "A real elimination of the 'democratic deficit' referred to here would only be possible if parliamentary decision-making was made possible at the level of the Kingdom." I do not expect this to happen in the short term. The legality deficit is now being resolved, but not the legality deficit and the democratic deficit of the parliaments of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. This means that the fundamental principle that the peoples of the Kingdom are basically equal is still not fully recognised. Among other things, we see the solution in small steps. Firstly, we see it, for example, in Mr Bikker's proposal, which will be presented later today. Secondly, we also see it in the establishment of a real dispute resolution procedure by an independent third party who gives a final judgment on legal disputes. We have talked about this recently. This progresses in small steps. I invite the Chamber to respond positively in due course, hopefully in the course of this year. We shall return to the other technical aspects of this proposal in the second round.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u6	Thank you for this clear statement. Mr Herdé spoke of a parliamentary representation at a national level and a democratic deficit. Is Mr Herdé thinking of a proportional representation at parliamentary level or does he want more voting rights than on average?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u7	If you look at the representation, you can see that you can't. We don't make it to the 17 million Dutch. Aruba and Curaçao don't make 400,000 together. So we shouldn't be looking for it in there. We must look for it in the principle of equality for the peoples. After all, they are peoples, and peoples have their own representation. Even at the coronation of the King, the oath refers to the peoples of the Kingdom. It is about the principle of equality. You have to go through that, including in parliamentary democracy. This means that the peoples, the parliaments, must have an equal voice. It is not about the number of inhabitants, it is about equality for justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u8	That is special, because we are holding elections on the basis of numbers. The votes of the voters ultimately come to a relationship where we guarantee democracy and say: that is the relationship. The Netherlands is a country with 17 million inhabitants. Those people are working to push the Netherlands up in the race of the peoples, just like Aruba, Curaçao and St.Maarten. Why should Aruba with 100,000 inhabitants, Curaçao with 150,000 inhabitants and Sint-Maarten with 50,000 inhabitants suddenly have absolutely equal votes against a country like the Netherlands with 17 million inhabitants? I think that's weird and I don't get it. I don't understand that democracy. I think that a Dutch citizen will say: wait a minute, I am being put at a disadvantage here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u9	How often will we, as four peoples, if I may call it that, vote within the Kingdom, as Mr Bosman proposes, with equal votes, on any matter? Because of the autonomy of each of the countries, most cases are settled internally. It is about the matters for which we are jointly responsible. These are matters which, as the Statute requires, are national or national matters. There must be clarity about this. If there are conflicts or differences of opinion, we must be able to decide on an equal basis. If Mr Bosman and I are in court in a dispute over a lease, the judge will not ask whether Mr Bosman is richer, bigger, more beautiful and stronger than me. Then the judge will ask: what is equality for justice? That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u10	Mr Bosman, do you still have a third interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u11	I was challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u12	Go ahead, by way of exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u13	We're not in court. The international conventions and international cooperation concern the countries themselves. Why doesn't the Netherlands just have a seat on the UN Security Council? We're all the same, aren't we? Why don't we have a veto? Not all of us are equal, not even the Netherlands. We all bear our responsibilities in this. We must accept and realise that we all have our goals in the different countries and have our responsibilities. I do not think it is true that in the Kingdom all interests are the same. At least that's not the case with the VVD. I think Mr Herdé understands that perfectly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u14	Can I still respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u15	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u16	Absolutely not. Mr Bosman will not hear me say that we are the same in every respect and on every subject. We accept that. We accept our limitations and our responsibility. That's not what the discussion is about. The debate here is about the application of law and democratic principles. That's the point. Your vote, Mr Bosman, represents Middelburg. That is no more or less than the representation of Mr Van Raak of Tilburg, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u17	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u18	Almost. That is the question of representation. Mr Bosman looks at numbers, but it is about justice. Are our countries equal for justice? It's not about us all being equal in every way. It certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u19	Mr Van Raak, would you like to make a personal statement about Tilburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u20	No, I think this is enough. Firstly, I would like to congratulate Mr Herdé on the role he always plays in our discussions, namely to bring together the countries of the Kingdom, Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands as much as possible. That's a nice, but not an easy part. Unfortunately, it is not the case that Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands are equivalent in the Kingdom. I would like to do so, and that is why I tabled a proposal with Mr Bosman for a commonwealth construction. I think Mr Herdé would be right in such a construction, because in it all countries are equal and work together on the basis of equivalence. Unfortunately, however, we are still dealing with a statute. That Statute states that the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in fact, has special responsibilities for good governance, human rights and the rule of law in Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. Unfortunately, as long as we have that Statute, we are not fully equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u21	I do not agree with you, especially with regard to the examples you give. You refer to the guarantee function in the Staff Regulations. The latest information provided by the Council of State makes it very clear how limited that guarantee function should be understood. That is not, unfortunately, the way it has been applied in recent years, namely to prevent situations. The Council of State speaks very clearly about this. I'll come back to equality. I think you confuse the words 'equality' and 'equivalence' in Dutch. It's not about equality, it's about equality. For justice, we are equal. It is not a question of applying this to the question of how many soldiers will deliver the Netherlands or Aruba if there is a war. That's not the point. It is not a question of whether Aruba can make an equal contribution to the environment as much as the Netherlands. The area of the Netherlands is much larger than that of Aruba. The point is that we are all entitled to the right, that we have a responsibility for the environment, for example, and that we have to bear that responsibility. We are equal in that. We all have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u22	Thank you. For the continuation of the debate, I would point out that it is customary in the Dutch Parliament to speak through the President and not to address each other directly. Mr Van Raak, do you have any further interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u23	It will never come of it, but if Mr Herdé and I ever stand together in court, then we are completely equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u25	However, within the current Statute, the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are not yet equal. That is the big problem if there are disputes or if a General Measure of Government is taken. We do not need to discuss this today, but I wish, with Mr Herdé, that we could work together within the Kingdom on the basis of equivalence. The current Statute prohibits this and lays down certain responsibilities on us that I prefer not to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u26	I understand. We need to discuss that responsibility further. You refer in particular to the guarantee function. I would like to have another debate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u27	Thank you. The following speaker was Mr De Weever, speaking on behalf of the States of Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. For some time now, the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation (IPKO) and before that the Contact Plan discusses the democratic deficit within the Kingdom. This deficit is reflected, among other things, in the fact that general government measures (AMvRBs) are not subject to the primacy of the legislator. In fact, this means that an AMvRB does not have to rely on a state law. This is contrary to what applies in the countries of the Kingdom with regard to General Administrative Measures. national decisions laying down general measures to be based on a law or a country regulation. With this proposal of state law, the initiator aims precisely to limit the possibility of issuing an AMvRB without a legal basis. This is expressed by the addition of the words "by or by national law" to Article 14 of the Staff Regulations. In exceptional cases of urgency, an exception may be made. Such an AMvRB shall have a duration of up to four years. In addition, it is proposed that the Royal Decree should allow the AMvRB to remain in force for a longer period of time. It goes without saying that the States of Saint Martin support this initiative in an effort to overcome the democratic deficit within the Kingdom. The States understand the four-year period chosen to possibly convert an AMvRB into a state law, but have serious reservations as to the possibility of extension seems to be unlimited. It is understandable that sometimes due to the complexity of the issue more time is needed to prepare the legislation, but the Kingdom Governments also need to live up to what is necessary to put an end to such a situation. We also welcome the introduction of the right of initiative for members of the representative bodies of countries, as proposed by the special delegates Bikker, De Sousa-Croes, De Weever, Marlin Romeo, Sulvaran, Thijsen and Herdé. At present, the GevMin and the special delegates are empowered to attend the oral examination of the draft national law and to provide the Chamber with information as they see fit. They also have the right of amendment. Granting the right of initiative to the members of the representative bodies of the countries goes one step further and can be seen as a milestone in reducing or reducing the number of representatives of the countries. to eliminate the democratic deficit. We hope that this amendment will receive the necessary support in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u29	I heard the disappointment of Mr De Weever about the two-year deadline. However, looking at recent experience of the dispute settlement alone, it appears that there should be agreement with four countries, four governments, four parliaments. Then two years suddenly isn't even that much time. Does Mr De Weever really think that everything should be completed within two years? On the basis of the example of the dispute settlement, we would have tapped it three years ago, and then it is only a question of whether we would have been where we are now. How does Mr De Weever see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u30	We have already discussed this before this sitting and we will see each other about it. Mr. Chairman. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u31	Thank you, too. The language of instruction in the Dutch Parliament is Dutch. That's not your first language. So very much appreciation that you have spoken to us in Dutch. Where you said "GevMin," I say for the people who are watching and listening, that is to say "Minister Plenipotentiary."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u32	Mr. Chairman. First of all, my compliments to the initiator. It is always a special moment when you deliver a bill and eventually defend it in the Chamber. I'll be brief today. It is a small but very important legislative proposal that was tabled a few years ago. The normal course of General Management Measures is that they have their basis in a law. Laws come about in consultation between government and parliament, but not in all cases there is parliamentary involvement in the formulation of national legislation. An independent General Measure of the Government is not based on a state law and is established by a decree of the Kingdom Government. This therefore lacks the primacy of the legislator. There is a democratic deficit, as has already been pointed out by the initiator. As a result, the Kingdom Government can take decisions that affect the Kingdom independently. I would like to ask the initiator to what extent he thinks that his bill is contributing to solving the democratic deficit that is currently being experienced. Why did it extend the transitional arrangements for the existing General Management Measures by letter of amendment? How can existing General Management Measures be prevented from being maintained by Royal Decree for a longer period of time? The latter has already been mentioned by one of the previous speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u33	I call Mr Thijsen. He also speaks on behalf of the States of Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u34	Mr President, colleagues and Minister Plasterk. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Bosman for the fine words in his introduction. I come to the proposal of state law that we are discussing today. The initiative proposal was tabled in 2000 by Mr Van Oven of the PvdA. Then the Kingdom knew a completely different scenario. It consisted of three countries: the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba. In democratic constitutional states, the primacy of the legislator is always essential. In the Kingdom, too, we always had the problem of the democratic deficit. We all want the democratic deficit to be reduced. Van Oven has submitted an own-initiative proposal aimed at ensuring that a General Measure of State Administration which has no legal basis will expire within two years. After 15 years, Mr Van Laar, also from the PvdA, took over the defence of the initiative proposal. That is special because the scenario has changed within the Kingdom. Now the Kingdom consists of four countries: the Netherlands plus the BES islands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. I have to say that these last countries are subject to financial supervision. So the scenario has changed. It remains a fact that 10-10-10 is a very important date. There were major changes at that time. Our group, the MEP Group, tabled seven amendments at that time. One of these amendments was adopted. That is now the basis for the Disputes Committee. We are pleased with that. The reason for tabling the amendment was to reduce the democratic deficit. This was also related to a 2009 report on the democratic deficit. The proposal before us today concerns a four-year period instead of a two-year period. You could also say it's four years-plus. In exceptional cases of urgency, the measure may be extended. We would have preferred Mr Van Oven's proposal to have been adopted, but this proposal is a small step forward. The special delegates are tabling an amendment to this point. Mr Bikker will comment on the content. The aim of the amendment is to reduce the democratic deficit. It is a very difficult subject for discussion. I would like to draw your attention to the debate between Mr Bosma and Mr Herdé. Mr Van Raak also has reservations on this point. A difference of opinion is, by the way, healthy. For us, essential remains the primacy of the legislator and the reduction of the democratic deficit. That's what we're up against. Finally, I have a question. I said that the four-year-plus proposal is a step forward. However, I would like to ask why the two-year deadline has gone to four years. We could have stuck to two years with an opportunity to extend in exceptional cases of an urgent nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u35	Mr Thijsen spoke about the democratic deficit. That is an important subject that I would like to raise. I have the idea that the Netherlands is lagging behind. I refer to the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in the Murray versus the Netherlands case. In it, the Netherlands is addressed to an action by Aruba and Curaçao. The Netherlands has been convicted because there is no TBs clinic on Aruba and Curaçao. The Netherlands should have acted proactively. The problem is that the guarantee function is subject to ex post evaluation, while the European Court of Human Rights asks us to do so proactively. In fact, we must not create such a situation. However, I have no control over this, because this is a matter for Aruba and Curaçao. In fact, we are talking about a democratic deficit for the Dutch Parliament. I don't have any control over it, but I'm being called upon. How does Mr Thijsen see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u36	I do not agree with Mr Bosman. Let me give you an example. In 2009, there was a consultation under the POK.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u37	The POK is the consultation between the parliaments of the various countries of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u38	During that time there was talk with the Dutch Lower House members who were members of the Dutch delegation. There was a letter from the Representation of the Netherlands in Aruba (VNO). On the basis of certain rumours, the Lower House members who were members of the committee have asked Secretary of State Bijleveld to conduct investigations. That's what happened. So they had indirect influence, because the investigation has arrived. Now it's exactly the same. You can ask questions to your Minister of Justice. There is consultation with the Minister of Justice of Curaçao, the Minister of Justice of Saint Martin and also with the Minister of Justice of Aruba. I'm sure Murray's situation was discussed at that time. As a Member of Parliament, you can ask questions to the Minister and be aware of what is happening. That is why I say that the democratic deficit is not with you; it is with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u39	No, I mention the example of the Curaçao prison, where doors are welded shut. We have knowledge of that. That is not an acceptable situation. I can be called upon to do so by the European Court of Human Rights. I can now say in this Chamber that these doors should not be welded, but I have no control over them. I'm being sued, but I don't have a say. Can Mr Thijsen explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u40	You're not being charged. The Kingdom of the Netherlands is addressed. That's a fact. That is why we say: it is better that we have a better relationship with each other. Let me give you an example. If we in our parliament have control over, for example, national laws, whether adopted by a two-thirds majority or not, we, as representatives of the people of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, still have the right to make decisions. If we are given that say, then we should find solutions together at the level of responsibility you say the Kingdom of the Netherlands bears for our four countries. The way we're doing it, we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u41	You've both made your point. Thank you, Mr Thijsen, for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u42	Mr. Chairman. It is wonderful to have the debate with all of you, starting with the initiator, whom I would like to thank, but also with the special delegates from Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. It reminds me of six, seven years ago, when we had discussions here about new political relations. Those were fierce discussions; it could spark a lot. I remember wonderful debates with Mr Sulvaran and a number of others who are here. Today we don't have to do that, because we agree. In any case, the SP can support this initiative proposal by Mr Van Laar. A lot of people won't know what that's about. People in the Netherlands who are looking now will not know what a Rijkswet or a General Measure of Government is. This proposal has to do with the Statute. The Statute is the Constitution of our Kingdom. Most Dutch people will also not know what the Statute is, while the Statute is still above our Constitution. I see that many Members from other parties are not taking part in the debate. I regret that, because this is important. It also shows that it is not perceived as such in the Dutch Parliament, unfortunately. In 1954 we created the Statute after Indonesia's independence. The Statute was never intended as a permanent constitution of the Kingdom. The Statute was intended to help the other colonies on their way to independence. This was done by giving the territories as much autonomy as possible, but ensuring that the Netherlands remained responsible for good governance, human rights and the rule of law. Mr Bosman has just given an example of this. After a lot of discussion and struggle, Papua became part of Indonesia in 1963. Suriname became independent in 1975. The Netherlands Antilles would become independent, for which even far-reaching plans have been made. In 1986, Aruba decided not to become independent, but an autonomous country within the Kingdom, within the Statute. Curaçao and Sint-Maarten also made that choice in 2010. I'm glad we're family, and we're still family. However, the SP voted against political relations at the time, because we thought it strange that the Statute was not being amended. If we are all autonomous countries, Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands, we cannot have one Constitution, one Statute, in which one of those countries, the Netherlands in fact, is responsible for good governance, human rights and that kind of thing. There is no kingdom government. There is, but our ministers have been supplemented by the Minister responsible for Aruba, the Minister responsible for Curaçao and the Minister responsible for Saint Martin. There is no Kingdom Parliament. However, we are not on Aruba today, not on Curaçao and not on Saint Martin, but we are here. We, the Dutch parliamentarians, are going to vote on this later. So the fact is that we are not four independent countries. That is the proposal I have made together with Mr Bosman to create a commonest of independent countries which, in view of their history, their culture and I also think their common future can work well together, with the Netherlands giving a great deal of support where it is necessary. As long as we as the Netherlands are actually responsible, we must be able to take that responsibility. That leads to disputes and fights and fights. If anything, Mr Bosman has already mentioned it with the prisons on Aruba or Curaçao, the Netherlands is called upon to do so. If Aruba cannot pay the bill, it will eventually go to the Netherlands. If there is corruption or fraud on Sint-Maarten or Curaçao, then we are called as MPs and we have to take responsibility. The good news is that there will be a dispute settlement and that is what my first question to the Minister is about. We had a meeting last week, an Interparliamentary Kingdom consultation, in which we agreed that this dispute settlement should be established. In an earlier consultation last year, we called on the governments of the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten to make such an arrangement and now we have two: one of the Netherlands and one of Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten. I think that's a little incomplete, so to speak. Two's too much. I would like to deal with a dispute settlement in this Parliament in the near future, but one. I ask the Minister in the margins of this debate what possibilities he sees for a single settlement with the governments of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin and whether our parliaments can still play a part in this. After that long history, we come to Mr Van Laar's proposal, because that has to do with this. In the Netherlands you have a law, which you can work out in a General Measure of Governance. Within the Kingdom, you have kingdom laws. The parliaments of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are also allowed to express their views on this. In addition, you have General Measures of Government, which the parliaments of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are not allowed to express their opinion on. What is Mr Van Laar doing? He's gonna get rid of that last one. So I very much agree with that. The first proposal came from the contact group, in 2000 or earlier. The Contact Group is the predecessor of the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation. Now Mr Van Laar is here to defend this law. Congratulations on our behalf. Thank you so much for the work. It took a while, but it's good work. I say to the delegates that it is not just now, today, that it is a long time before agreements we make in the Kingdom as parliaments are implemented. That was also the case in the past. That is what this proposal shows. I actually have one question for the author and that is: what exactly are we talking about? How many General Measures by the Government are there? What types of issues have been settled in the recent past without the parliaments of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin having any say in this matter? Are there many? Are there few? Are they big topics or small subjects? Is it true that if we adopt this initiative law, we will all have to make new laws about it again, which will have to be passed by all those parliaments? How much work is that? I would also like to ask the Minister, who is responsible for Kingdom relations. An amendment by Mr Bikker has just been distributed. He will speak immediately after me. The amendment was signed by all the other delegates. The amendment creates a kind of right of initiative for national laws for parliamentarians of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. I can't quite see the consequences of that. I will ask what the Minister thinks of the amendment. Mr Van Laar will, of course, find all sorts of things about it, and I invite him to respond to it. But I would also like to know what the Minister thinks of this, on the basis of his responsibility. I would also like to inform the delegates that we are dealing here with a relatively small law that is quite technical. The proposal that the delegates are making now is quite a step forward. They propose to give Statesmen, parliamentarians of Aruba, Curaçao and St.Maarten the right of initiative for national laws, laws submitted by the government of the Kingdom and which should ultimately be dealt with in the Lower House. What is being proposed here is quite a thing. We have a habit here that if a fairly substantial proposal is made, there is an opportunity to debate it extensively. There will then be written rounds and then we must have a good debate on them. I am very curious to hear what Mr Bikker is going to say. I'll see if I have any questions. However, I would also like to present the following to the delegates. We will soon have a much wider debate, for example on the dispute settlement. I think it would be more appropriate to include the proposal they are making now in the debates on these legislative proposals, or perhaps even to make a proposal of their own. In this way we can discuss this separately and do not have to do so in the margins of this initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Van Raak. Mr Herdé would like to ask you another question. I note that the dispute settlement is not on the agenda today. Several spokesmen have said something about it, but we are not going to debate it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u44	I have three brief questions for Mr Van Raak, with whom I would like to discuss them. What does he think, first of all, of the democratic deficit in the Kingdom? I would ask him to do so, particularly because he is a socialist, which is very appealing to me. My second question is this. Mr Van Raak took note of the Council of State's past opinions or information on this proposal. Recently, the Council of State has reported on the application of Royal Decrees and the like. The Council of State expressly states that the guarantee function as set out in the Staff Regulations should not be used proactively or should not be regarded as "in order to prevent..." According to the Council of State, that guarantee function may only be used as a last resort. Mr Van Raak has taken note of that position of the Council of State. How does he feel about that? Thirdly, Mr Van Raak says that if, for example, Aruba does not pay the bills, the problems will end up in the Netherlands. I believe that the Minister of the Interior has already told the Chamber on several occasions that this is not happening. Mr Van Raak knows the file. When's the last time he said this happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u45	You have been asked three questions, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u46	I'm glad to hear that if Aruba can't pay the bills, that country goes to Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, and not to the Netherlands. I think that's a good deal. The Kingdom will still be called upon to do so. I am glad that Curaçao and Saint Martin have taken responsibility for this. As a socialist, I am in favour of complete equality. I believe that every people should strive for independence and that every people should take their destiny into their own hands as much as possible. I am therefore of the political direction that was proud when Indonesia became independent. That was considered rather mixed at the time. I would also like Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin to be independent countries, but I also know very well how difficult that is, given the size of the countries, the problems facing the countries and the problematic environment in which the countries lie. Above all, I think it is not up to me, but to the people of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, and also to Bonaire, Saba and Statia, to determine their own destiny. I fully agree with Mr Herdé that the provision on the responsibilities of the Netherlands within the Kingdom is an open provision. I myself told Minister Donner in 2010 or 2011 that I do not know from my head: with that guarantee you can go anywhere; with that the Netherlands can do anything, at all costs! Then I asked Minister Donner for clarification: what does that guarantee function mean? What exactly is that? Then the Minister sent us a rather thick report, which, in fact, didn't contain anything. The Netherlands refuses to further define the guarantee function. I don't think this minister wants to do that either. I can see that somewhere. If you list what good governance is and it happens to be out of line, the Netherlands should not be allowed to act, while it is responsible. That's the corset we have. That's the problem we have. I call that the corset of the Statute. My proposal, Mr Bosman, is already nodding, would be to work together as countries with our shared history and our shared future on the basis of equality, not within the corset of the Kingdom but in a commonest of equal countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u47	The danger of three questions is that you get a long answer. I ask you, Mr Herdé, to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u48	The answer to the first question, about the payments, I didn't understand. Will Mr Van Raak repeat it? My other question was about the pursuit of independence. In the 1940s, or even more after the war, in the 1960s it was politically "in." In Africa and the Caribbean countries went to independence. Meanwhile, there is another development: the right to self-determination. That's another way of putting it. That means you leave the choice to the countries. You have to respect that, too. When I hear it like that, Mr Van Raak stuck somewhere in the 1960s. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u49	Mr Van Raak, can you answer this briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u50	I've never been called a hippie in this room. Hahaha. Don't let my mother hear it! No, I have a lot of respect for the choice that Aruba has made. That was on the way to independence. Ten years was taken for that. After ten years, the people of Aruba have said: we are not going to make that choice; we do not want to continue to play a role within the Netherlands Antilles, but we do want to pursue our own course within the Kingdom. I personally congratulated Mr Herdé for his role in the discussions we have here as parliamentarians from the four countries, but so have Aruba. Aruba has among all countries the most pronounced ideas about the Kingdom and the way in which the Kingdom can benefit all four countries. For example, we always mention the hub function of Dutch and European companies to America. Aruba plays a very good role in this, but the fact remains that the Netherlands remains responsible if things really go wrong. If we do not pick that up, we will be forced to do so either by the European Court or by others. The same applies to unpaid bills. If Aruba can't pay the bills in the end, then Venezuela won't. That's just the way it is. That's really annoying. I'd like it to be different, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u51	Good afternoon, Minister, Mr Van Laar, colleagues, attendees and those who follow us through the media. Mr President, I am going to discuss the amendment. I am grateful to Mr Van Laar for picking up the Van Oven initiative proposal. The fact is that this is an initiative legislative proposal by Members of Parliament within the meaning of Articles 16 and 19, so that it affects our countries. It is very strange that we cannot table such an initiative legislative proposal. We can't even vote on it. But we're moving forward one step at a time. Someone was talking about numbers and wondering how many votes we actually have. We have almost 160,000 votes. In the 2012 elections, the electorate was 64,000 votes. A Member of Parliament elected with preferred votes must have 15,000 votes. So we actually represent 2.3 seats. That is why I believe that we do have a say in this matter in proportion. A very basic element is that a parliamentarians can submit own-initiative legislative proposals that affect their country. We don't have that right. In this context, the Council of State has said that the position of the States of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin must be strengthened. That is why we have tabled an amendment. Actually, it's a professional respect that you assign to others what you have. I closely follow the House of Representatives through the website; I have seen amendments of almost two pages that are very far-reaching. So I do not understand why such a technical adjustment immediately encounters so much resistance. The treatment of a state law amending the Staff Regulations lasts on average six to seven years. I didn't see another one coming soon. Even the dispute settlement concerns a normal state law which does not amend the Staff Regulations. I do not therefore foresee that we will soon see another historic moment in which the Statute will be dealt with and we will be able to table such an amendment. I therefore believe that the amendment has its place. For example, it is very strange that we have the right to vote for the parliament of the European Union, but we do not have the right to vote for the House of Representatives. I have already said that we actually represent 2.3 seats. We know that you can exert a great deal of influence in the Netherlands with one seat, especially in the Upper House. If we all put that in perspective, I think this amendment concerns minor adjustments. Now, for example, we can make a proposal for a state law proposal through the authorised minister. Is that even democratic? We are talking about a democratic deficit. We are the representatives of the people. What would change with a small technical adjustment so that we can make a speech ourselves? Even then we would not be equal to the members of the House of Representatives, because it is a speech in the sense of "would you please submit this." So it's not quite the same yet, but at least it's small steps forward. This as a background to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u52	I have a question about these numbers. There is talk here of a seat and everything related to it. We can solve that problem if we simply turn Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin into municipalities. Then it's exactly the same. Then Mr Bikker can simply participate in the entire representation and get the seat available. Then proportional representation is arranged. But Mr Bikker wants control but not responsibility, because it is ultimately here in The Hague. That's the difference. If Mr Bikker wants to look closely at the Statute, I am all for it. Together with my colleague Mr Van Raak, we will immediately support this and we will immediately look at how we are going to amend that Statute. If we take it one step at a time, we are constantly taking away those small responsibilities, and finally we have to see that responsibility and liability is simply in The Hague. The European Court of Human Rights was clear about this. The bill for the fine of €27,000 ends up here in The Hague. If Mr Bikker says 'we are entitled to 2.3 seats', I say 'well, I don't think so'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u53	I think we're having two discussions. I am having a discussion about reducing the democratic deficit and the right of a Member of Parliament under the Statute, when we do not have it. Mr Bosman is having a discussion on some sort of statement. By the way, we'll pay our bill. The Kingdom is supposed to intervene on the basis of Article 43, but if a particular judgment has been given, then it is not possible again. The debate on the amendment is, in any case, that we have found that we cannot make such an initiative legislative proposal ourselves, even though it affects our countries. That right is a professional one. We are giving you consideration to assigning that to us as well. Moreover, in view of the fact that it is so long before we talk about the Statute again, we thought that we could table such an amendment immediately. As regards differences of opinion on the type of constitution: we are not interested in becoming a municipality, because that was already discussed in 2010. The countries have chosen to be countries. The responsibilities in the Statute could be debated at that time. As far as I am concerned, we are now talking about reducing the democratic deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u54	We have the Statute as a basis. The core is that they are all different countries. We cannot simply say: yes, but we want the same thing as the House of Representatives does. After all, that is the Netherlands. In this way, Aruba also makes other choices, as well as Curaçao adopts 80/20 legislation. That's Curaçao's choice. It's not my call, and I'm not gonna interfere. It could happen that the European Court of Human Rights is going to find something about this and we are going to get screwed up too. But we have chosen the Statute as the basis, and that means that these are the agreements. The VVD thinks the Statute is pinching. I would like to make adjustments, but when I say that, the countries say that they do not want to. So it's pretty one-sided. If we all agree that, then we all need to think carefully about where we want to come from, what this Kingdom should look like and what the Statute should serve as a basis for. That's the point. The European Court of Human Rights against which you cannot appeal simply designate the Netherlands: you will pay €27,000 compensation. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u55	In my view, the essence of this is that we are wondering why a minister who is a Member of Parliament can submit a nomination to a state law, but we, as representatives of the people, are not. We are not talking today about a ruling by the European Court of Justice. It is weird that Mr Bosman thinks he can talk about everything, but he thinks it is too far when we are talking about an amendment which, in our opinion, fits in with the proposal for a state law. With that, he measures, with all due respect, with double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u56	Mr. Bosman, we have plenty of time. You may interrupt if you keep it very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u57	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. It's not about double standards. We are in the middle of a debate here and we are in the middle of a difference of opinion where we are all standing. That is why we are discussing the amendment. I always welcome the fact that colleagues are tabling amendments and intending to change the law, especially with regard to the Statute. The same applies to an initiative proposal. Those are impressive pieces of work that have serious work to do. You need to take that seriously and discuss it seriously. Only, on behalf of the VVD, I report that I am concerned about the changes. If I want a change to the Statute, I will encounter a 'no'. If the countries want a change to the Statute, there will be a bit of indignation towards the Netherlands as in "yes, but you do not give us anything." Those are two differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u58	I await the opinion of the Minister and the initiator of the amendment. However, I agree with Mr Bosman that, because of the debate, we can see whether we can meet on a common ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u59	I am pleased that Mr Bikker emphasizes that today is about Van Laar's proposal and specifically about his amendment, and not about the whole of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u60	You have a question for Mr Bikker, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u61	Does Mr Bikker recognise Mr Bosman's statement that Aruba does demand but does not pay and that Aruba wants equal treatment but does not want to bear its responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u62	No. Actually, I've already answered that. I think we are paying our bill. I have not yet seen any account taken of the ruling of the European Court, but we will take responsibility for that. If there is an account, we have never refused to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u63	Finally, on the side of the Chamber, Mr De Graaf of the PVV Group. When Mr De Graaf is ready, I will suspend the sitting. At a later date, we will continue with the reply by the petitioner and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u64	Mr. Chairman. We'll be able to suspend quickly. I would like to thank Mr Van Laar, who removed a bill from the dust 15 years ago. I have to say that, in 15 years' time, you may wonder how much priority it has, but I always appreciate a Member of the Chamber who is working on an initiative law. So I am giving a double signal: on the one hand appreciation, but on the other hand the question of how much priority this has. The PVV has always argued that we want to say goodbye to the former Antilles. Unfortunately, however, we are bound by a provision in the United Nations Charter which states that the Netherlands has a duty of care for the former Antilles and that the Netherlands must not unilaterally break ties with the islands. My colleague Fritsma tabled a motion on this one and a half years ago. The UN Charter thus deprives the Dutch of the democratic right to decide their own future. The word 'inequivalence' or 'inequivalence' has been mentioned a number of times in the debate today. This, too, is such a point. The Netherlands simply should not choose to break the ties with the former Antilles, while of course there is every reason to do so; we have often argued that in the past too. Corruption, crime and financial chaos have already cost us far too much tax money. Only the PVV believes that we should get rid of the Charter. As far as we are concerned, the Charter is a liability. I have already said that we therefore find the initiative law, which has now been taken off the shelf, too much mess in the margins. I do not mean that there is a mess; that is the expression. After all, I have said that I appreciate the person who is doing this. We do not want a marginal change. We want to get rid of the whole Statute. That is why we will vote against the law. We have already defined and explained our position in detail. I can therefore also say that we do not even have to participate in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-35.u65	We have reached the end of the first term of office. As has been said, the answer will take place at a later date.
