ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. Speaking time is two minutes, including tabling any motions, as everyone knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u2	Mr. Chairman. Cultural money in the Netherlands must be spent effectively. The Chamber must check that that is the case. The policy review of international cultural policy did nothing to make sense. The criticism is harsh. The government has never asked to report on expenditure on internationalisation or on the extent to which it contributes to achieving the policy objectives. Anyone who expects that report to change anything will come out cheated. The Minister informs us that we are going to invest in Egypt, Mali, Russia, Lebanon, Morocco and Turkey. That's way too fast for my party. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the review of the Development Cooperation and Policy Review (IOB) over the period 2009-2014 shows that there is no consistency, there is no good overview of overall expenditure nor of effectiveness;]] [[Whereas the international cultural policy framework 2017-2020 does not indicate how the Court can monitor or assess the effectiveness of the policy;]] [[Calls on the Government not to pursue current international cultural policy and to make the Minister of Education, Culture and Science responsible for the policy to be pursued;]] [[calls on the Minister for Education, Culture and Science to inform the Chamber of the WHO Culture on 21 November of its intention to spend the funds in such a way as to contribute to the Dutch cultural interests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Veen and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31482-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u3	I must, of course, make an assessment of this motion, but it has a lot of implications. Can Mr Van Veen explain the amount of money involved and outline what projects will be stopped if this motion is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u4	I can. This amounts to a total of EUR 18 million devoted to international cultural policy. With regard to its use, the SP group should, for example, consider cultural projects in Mali. The Minister hereby instructs Dutch artists to place our art there, as a kind of export product. My party and I think it is important to talk about this again during the WHO, because cultural money is scarce in the Netherlands. During that WHO we can best conclude that embassies must have a certain amount to put the Netherlands internationally on the map. During the WHO, in a serious debate with the Minister on the effectiveness of policy choices, let us make agreements on how we will discuss this with each other in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u5	Will you stop completely with this policy? Or would you like to take a pass on the spot and weigh this well with each other and look at it within the context of the WHO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u6	Legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u7	Excuse me, the legislative consultation on the cultural budget that we are about to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u8	I believe that we must do justice to the report that has been written. In my view, that's destructive. This means that we must make a step in the right direction and, in a proper debate with the Minister, set out the policy frameworks for the future. That is the proposal, and that is what I intend to do with the motion before us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u9	Making a pass on the spot is something other than deleting. I would like to get a clarification of that, so that we communicate with each other in plain Dutch. In the past, the VVD has mainly cut down on cultural money. Do you want that 18 million to go to the cultural budget and then bet that amount on any setbacks on the budget, or do you really want to bet 18 million on culture in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u10	I just said that cultural money is scarce. I therefore have no intention of removing this amount from any cultural budget. I just think that we should look at the effectiveness of the policy. The aim is not to cover any other deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u11	Thank you very much. I see that after his interruptions and the answers given, Mr Monasch is refusing to speak. The same goes for the others. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Can she answer right away? The Minister is willing and able to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u12	Mr. Chairman. It is perhaps regrettable that I have to give the response to this motion only because international cultural policy is really a joint responsibility of my colleagues Koenders and Ploumen and of myself. I would like to say this because this cooperation brings added value to international cultural policy. This is how we do it more often, including in other areas. I do lifelong learning with my colleague Asscher, with colleagues from I and M and BZK architecture policy, with EZ the top sector Creative industry and so on. We also have a common international cultural policy, but what that means for Foreign Affairs can be something other than what it can mean from the national perspective of culture. I welcome international cultural policy, because it is a stage to give Dutch companies the opportunity to act abroad as well. Foreign Affairs also has its own specific interest in it. It connects different networks and policy starting points. The posts of the State Department have a crucial local network, giving artists and cultural institutions direct access to the market and the cultural field on the ground. This applies to culture as well as to trade missions. Culture can also be a means of trade missions. In short, the significance of culture for Foreign Affairs is not in all respects the same as for OCW. But we can work together to give a place to what Dutch culture can do abroad and to give a place to the intrinsic value of culture in the foreign postal network. That's something we three share. There is, however, a shift towards the policy of the previous cabinet, where culture in foreign policy was only used as an economic tool. I agree with Mr Van Veen that the Development Cooperation and Policy Review Inspection is critical on a number of points. However, the inspection also says that international cultural policy contributes directly and indirectly to the policy objectives of the government and to the Dutch interests: directly by strengthening the Dutch cultural sector and indirectly by activities that contribute to the visibility of and goodwill for the Netherlands and that link culture to other priorities, such as economic diplomacy or human rights. In those areas where IOB is critical, we have been working to make improvements, to link the activities more clearly to the policy objectives and to make expenditure more transparent. We have already taken steps in recent months. At its core, this approach consists of three coherent pathways, yielding: multi-annual strategic plans per focus country, commitments on the accountability of resources and a framework for monitoring and evaluation. What I would like to pledge to your Chamber is a letter for the Culture legislative consultation on 21 November, on how we are increasing the effectiveness of international cultural policy. However, I must advise against the motion because it places the responsibility for the international cultural policy of Foreign Affairs only with me and places international cultural policy only in the context of a contribution to Dutch interests. I believe that international cultural policy should also contribute to international interests. The resources in the PMI budget "HGIS resources' and "ODA resources' are earmarked for international policy. That is, by the way, the largest item in international cultural policy; my colleagues pay more than I do, I say. As you know, we cannot simply transfer funds earmarked for international policy to a national post. That would be a major system breach. It would be the least to have a good debate on such a far-reaching step with the ministers most concerned. Without their presence, however, I would say that this is not the way we should deal with our international cultural policy. I therefore advise against the motion on this point, but once again I am prepared to send information on its effectiveness and the way in which we are now further improving international cultural policy for legislative consultation to the Chamber on 21 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u13	The reason for this VSO is a heavy report. That report is not written in Arabic, but in Dutch. It says that there is fragmentation, that the ministries do not know what happens to the money. It is one of our duties as MPs to ensure that Dutch taxpayers' money is correctly used. The only thing I propose here on behalf of my party is that we take the Dutch interest first and have a proper debate with one minister, namely the Minister of OCW. I can't believe the Minister's gonna ignore this so easily. Doesn't she want to reconsider this? Does she not simply want to enter into the debate at the legislative consultation so that we can discuss with each other what we want to do with this tax money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u14	Of course, I am always prepared to engage in the debate on the policy evaluation. I would like to say once again that international cultural policy has proved to be of great value in establishing access to and connection with a broad and relevant professional network in the priority countries and in the Netherlands. The report is also critical. For example, in the period 2009-2014, that should especially attract previous Cabinets was too little direction and coordination by the government. We have taken these lessons, and we have started to do so. We're a long way ahead now. You do this on the basis of an evaluation report; there is an inspection for that. Evaluate not to transfer rücksichtslos elements of policy from one department to another, but to learn lessons. These are lessons within the framework of international cultural policy. Mr Van Veen wants to turn international policy into national policy. I think that's a shame. I also find it politically undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u15	I am a little hesitant, because there is going to be a whole debate. Of course, that's nice, but that's not what this meeting is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u16	I'll be very brief. I challenge the Minister to read the motion again. The motion is not about transferring money, but about focusing on the policy we are pursuing and making that policy verifiable for the Chamber. I'm maintaining my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u17	Once again, I would like to inform the Chamber of the lessons we have learned, the use and effectiveness of the resources of international cultural policy and the way in which we can make it all clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u18	I did not hear Mr Van Veen act against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u19	What I have a problem with is that Mr Van Veen wants it to only contribute to Dutch interests, while the current international cultural policy through the link with HGIS and ODA has an international component par excellence. In the context of international diplomacy, development cooperation and international exchange, it seems to me to be very undesirable to put a line through that component.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u20	I see that Mr Van Dijk needs an explanation from the Minister on Mr van Veen's motion. That's curious, but it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u21	It's an exception, Mr. Chairman. The second part of the operative part of the motion is fine: put together what happens to the money. The first part of the operative part, however, concerns the closure of the budget, if I understand correctly. Can the Minister tell us what will happen if this motion makes it? Will the budget be stopped at once? Are there all kinds of legal consequences because of the closure of projects for which commitments have been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u22	I strongly advise against this motion, for that reason. I do not think it is desirable, and I do not think it appropriate, to transfer money with a different objective from one department to another, because that is what you are actually doing. I do not think that makes any sense in this case either, because that is a system breach. Indeed, it is no longer linked to HGIS and ODA resources. If the motion were to be adopted, I would first consider very strongly what is being asked and then take it with me to the cabinet. Suppose the motion is carried out. It would then seem to me that, on balance, it would be a considerable reduction in, among other things, development cooperation and international coordination. The question is whether this would improve international cultural policy. Once again, if you really want to have this discussion, I think it would be appropriate to have it with my colleagues in the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u23	I see some Members still looking at the motion, but that does not lead to any new initiatives at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-20.u24	I thank the Minister very much for her extremely clear answers. The motion will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
