ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Van Laar. He is supported by Ton Langenhuijzen and Daniel Templeman, both policy officer at the PvdA Group, in trade-K in the defence of this initiative proposal. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom we had with us this morning, who will be present as an advisor to the Chamber in the examination of this legislative initiative. Finally, in addition to the members of the House of Representatives, I welcome again the special delegates appointed by the States of Curaçao, the States of Aruba and the States of Saint Martin. Welcome aboard! I am happy to give Mr Van Laar the floor for his first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with words of thanks. I think that's the right thing to do. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator and spiritual father of this initiative legislative proposal, Gerritjan van Oven. He filed this already 16 years ago. It was on the shelf for a long time, but it was still up to date last year. That's why we're here. I would also like to thank Ton Langenhuijzen and Daniel Tempelman, who have already been mentioned and are behind me, for their support in making this proposal. My special thanks go to Betty Drexhage, who, as a retired legislative lawyer, considered it a challenge to update this law and adapt it so that the treatment in the Lower House can now take place. If it hadn't been for her, I wouldn't be here right now. Where Gerritjan van Oven is the father of this law, she has now become the mother. I would also like to thank all Members of Parliament and the special delegates for their first-term input. I'll try to answer their questions as best I can. Colleagues and journalists have struggled to appoint what this law is really about. In official terms, that is indeed not easy, because the title of the law alone covers half a page, but actually it is quite simple: this law is about who is in charge in the Kingdom. Is the National Council of Ministers leading or are those the representations of the peoples within the Kingdom? Can the National Council of Ministers take decisions without asking for permission from those representatives, or can it not? The purpose of this initiative proposal is to restrict the freedom of the Council of Ministers to act without consulting the States and without asking the States-General for permission. If this proposal is adopted, the National Council of Ministers may make rules only in special cases of an urgent nature without the consent of the States-General. Such a rule is called an independent General Measure of Government (AMvRB). In our proposal, an AMvRB must have a basis in the Statute or in a state law within two years, otherwise it will automatically lapse. This proposal does not give the Caribbean countries in the Kingdom a right of veto. After all, they still do not have to agree to a state law, but this does give them the opportunity to participate and to table motions and amendments, as they can today. The Second and First Chambers will have that right of assent. The democratic deficit that Mrs Fokke asked for will therefore be reduced a bit for the Dutch citizen and for the Caribbean citizen. Both will have more influence on rules affecting the Kingdom through their representatives if this legislative initiative is adopted than they have had so far. A self-employed AMvRB will only be allowed to remain of an urgent nature in special cases. In future, the National Council of Ministers will have to state why there is a special case of urgency. In very special cases where there is still an urgent nature after two years, the National Council of Ministers may establish an autonomous AMvRB, similar to a former independent AMvRB, if it has not succeeded in anchoring this self-employed AMvRB in a state law or statute within the prescribed two-year period, I say in reply to Mr Bosman's first question. The central idea behind the law, however, is that an independent AMvRb becomes a rarity and that the National Council of Ministers can choose the parliamentary route if it is possible. Several members and special delegates have asked for the transitional period for existing AMvRBs and the possibility to extend them by Royal Decree. Mr Van Raak asked how many AMvRBs are still in operation. There are 14 of them, of which a whole number date back to the date following the submission of this bill. So there are still current AMvRBs. There are also those who are ancient: some are already 40, 50 or 60 years old. They're still useful. I call an extradition decision, which regulates how prisoners are extradited. But I am also thinking of things that are useful for defence and for pensions paid in Suriname. The last AMvRB dates back to 1967.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	If we adopt this law, should all those AMvRB's national laws be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	Some AMvRBs will expire in the coming years. So there's nothing to be done with that, it's gonna be okay. Others will have to be anchored in a state law or in the Statute. That doesn't mean that whole AMvRB has to be in a state law, but there has to be a state law that states that something is recorded in an AMvRB. That's the operation we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm trying to imagine how much work that is. Is it a fairly technical matter? That must always be awaited when the weather is to be dealt with by parliaments. Should it be in 14 separate national laws or can it be in some sort of collectible law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	I don't think that's possible in a collecting law, because they're very different in nature. A few relate to defence; perhaps it would be possible there. But putting an extradition decision and pensions in Suriname in one collective law seems less beautiful. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on this later. Several independent AMvRBs will expire in the coming years. For others, it is estimated that it may not be possible to anchor them in a state law or statute within two years. In addition, the anchoring of fourteen autonomous AMvRBs in Rijkswets or the Statute is a legislative operation of a large size. The transitional period has therefore been extended to four years. The possibility of extending the validity of self-employed AMvRBs at KB is not intended as a regular extension option, but as a kind of hardness clause in the event of imminent serious harm if an autonomous AMvRB would automatically expire. The National Council of Ministers should be very cautious and careful about this. In doing so, I think it would be appropriate for the National Council of Ministers to inform the States-General of such an extension as soon as possible and fully motivated. It is then up to us, as representatives of the people, to assess whether the National Council of Ministers has indeed made the most of its efforts to establish an anchor in a state law or in the Statute and whether there is indeed a serious threat of disaster. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this seems appropriate to him. The particularly delegated Sulvaran asked for examples of such special cases of an urgent nature. The most difficult case for the current AMvRBs is the extradition decision. There is also a Dutch extradition order, which is different from the AMvRB which applies to the Kingdom. These may need to be put together. There has been a long-standing review of whether this is a state law, but it has not been possible to do so to you. The automatic expiry of the decision would have major consequences. With such cases in mind, therefore, the possibility of renewal per KB has been added. The Highly Delegated Thijssen asked why the transitional period was extended from two years to four years. Why has it not been chosen to leave the deadline at two years simply because it can be extended per KB? It is precisely in order to ensure that this extension per KB is an absolute exception that the deadline has been extended to four years. We expect the government, the National Council of Ministers, to make a maximum effort to convert the autonomous AMvRBs within those four years. It should be possible in almost all cases. The extension at KB will hopefully never have to be used by extending the transitional period to four years. Finally, the amendment tabled by the special delegates by Mr Bikker. I would ask him to withdraw this amendment, because it does not concern the independent General Measure of the Government, which is the subject of this initiative proposal. Giving the States members of the Caribbean countries the right of initiative in the States-General is an interesting idea, but a thought that requires much more consideration than what is possible within the scope of this bill. Moreover, if this amendment is adopted, I would have to defend the law including the amendment in the First Chamber and I do not see any possibility of that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Bikker is here on behalf of the States of Aruba and he wants to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	I thank Mr Van Laar for his answers. I can tell you that the content and scope of the amendment are found to be equally sympathetic by the Chamber. However, the Chamber has not had an opportunity to be briefed on this matter. I've taken advice. We may be able to table a motion and postpone the vote on the bill. It's a 2000 bill, so I don't think that's very urgent. If the information is given, the vote may take place in a few weeks, taking into account that information. I have, moreover, adjusted the amendment so that it could enter into force at the appropriate time. If, after the information, there were doubts about the consequences, I think it would be very limited, because the authorised minister already has such a right, the Kingdom Cabinet may decide not to allow it to enter into force and to have it examined further. Moreover, I have seen in the history of law that for the sake of coincidence, I believe that Serendipity Platterk and Mr Van Vliet tabled two amendments to the Auditor's Office Act at the time without any apparent information. The First Chamber then asked for information from the Council of State and the Council of State said: a provision has been introduced for deferred operation and thus it has been declared covered. I therefore propose that we table a motion, that the vote be held and that information be requested. Then the Lower House can vote, taking into account the information and their discretionary power to determine how they will vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	I consider your contribution to be a point of order, which is a short and proper point of order, and which means that Mr Van Laar's proposal is not yet being voted on. You have just stated the reasons for this. Before I submit that proposal to the members of the Chamber, I would ask Mr Van Laar to respond to it. Then the Court can take that into consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	I think the point remains that the amendment is strange to the initiative proposal as it stands. The initiative proposal concerns the General Measure of Government, its independent version, while the amendment concerns the right of Member States to submit own initiative proposals in this Chamber. It really seems to me to be a separate proposal. It also seems to me to be worthy of a separate initiative proposal if we decide to do so. That decision really deserves more consideration. Information questions take a few months. I hope that delay will not occur. Mr Bikker talked about delayed operation, but then we would amend the Staff Regulations and then see if that is a good idea. I do not think that is wise either. I would therefore ask Mr Bikker to deal with this separately. If we ask for information, we can set it up for the IPKO and then we can really take a serious look at it. This is not possible within the outline of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	This means, in concrete terms, that the petitioner is asking you not to maintain your order proposal. What is your reaction to that, Mr Bikker?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	I would then ask the author, if we are considering withdrawing the amendment, to consider the motion, which will state that the withdrawn amendment will require information from the Council of State on the scope of the amendment, so that we do not have to wait until it is discussed at the IPKO in six months' time. We want to speed things up, even though we are now discussing a law from the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	I haven't seen the motion yet. I propose that I respond to that in the second term. I think that's best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u14	I propose that at the end of the second term we discuss your proposal for order, because we will be able to look at the palette better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u15	I was almost done. I hope to have answered all the questions asked in this way. I look forward to hearing the Chamber's contribution in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u16	Questions were asked in the first term to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in his capacity as advisor. Even from the interrupting debate with Mr Van Raak a further point emerged for the Minister. I am happy to give the Minister the floor in his role as advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. Even if I had not been asked any questions, I would still feel the need for a debate on changing the Statute of the Kingdom of Belgium, one could say: the Constitution of the Kingdom of Denmark, to add the opinion of the Cabinet. It's special to be in this setting. That happens very rarely. It is nice to see here the special delegates of the states of the three countries, and also a single MP of the House of Representatives. In the first term, which I have listened to with great interest, many aspects of constitutional relations have been discussed. The initiative for a commonwealth of SP and VVD, the dispute settlement and other aspects of the constitution of our Kingdom have been discussed. In my modest role as advisor, I would like to confine myself to the present initiative proposal and the amendment tabled to it. Only one specific procedural question has been asked by Mr Van Raak, namely how to deal with the different routes of dispute settlement. I also give a somewhat formal answer to that question, to be precise. A proposal for a dispute settlement has been submitted by the National Council of Ministers in consultation and has thus been made public. The consultation phase is now complete. Then the National Council of Ministers takes it back and he's going to submit it or not to the Council of State. I don't think that's gonna come back until the summer. The National Council of Ministers will then decide whether or not to send it up-to-date to the States General. Then there's a proposition here. That is the only proposal we have. I am, of course, aware of the discussions that are taking place at the IPKO through the newspapers. The question now is how to prevent different routes from running at the same time. A suggestion, for my part, could be to convert these differences into amendments where the members of the IPKO come to different conclusions from what the National Council of Ministers might at some point propose to the States-General, so that this can be discussed immediately and on the spot in this setting, also in the presence of the special delegates. That seems to me to be the purest way of ensuring that there is one clear and clear path. That would be my advice, but I also realize that the Chamber is entirely about the order of business of proposals and that I only have to explain the envisaged course of action on the part of the National Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u18	Could the Minister explain it just as well, because I don't understand the input. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u19	I'd like to explain. Maybe I formulated it a little too compact. I have been asked what the trajectory is, as the National Council of Ministers has put forward a proposal for a dispute settlement in consultation. How does that relate to the fact that, as I read in the newspapers, the IPKO discussed proposals that are not exactly the same? How should you come to a pure debate on that? Once again, that is, of course, in principle for the Chamber, but I am being asked for advice. My advice would be to make the differences that have been pointed out with what we can accept from the National Council of Ministers after the Council of State, in order to forge amendments here, so that the proposal of the National Council of Ministers and the amendments thereto can be discussed directly in one round. That would be one way to make sure you don't have two lanes next to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u20	Now there is a preliminary draft law for consultation. You are actually forcing us to take your proposal for consultation as a fundamental principle and to amend it. It does not comply with the agreement that the rulings must be binding and so on; it does not meet the three basic principles. It's for consultation. We can say that we are taking part in this consultation and then express our opinion on it, otherwise it will be the basic document. We have put another document on the table in IPKO as an alternative. Again, that is not the subject at the moment, but we are talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u21	Sure, but it's no more and no less than an advice from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u22	The word "force" was used, but I'm not forcing anyone. In response to the question of how you could provide a clear trajectory, this is a suggestion. Once again, I only read in the newspaper what is being discussed in the IPKO, but my view is that the differences focus on two or three points and that they would be well placed in an amendment. In this way you have a clear, unambiguous path to fully discuss these differences here and to draw the conclusions of the States-General on this. The alternative path is to initiate an initiative process independently of the proposal of the National Council of Ministers by the Minister responsible. Then it just gets more complicated. Then I wish the Bureau success in determining how it could be treated side by side in the best way possible. I don't think it's necessary in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u23	Oh, well, we've been in worse hands. I have the floor to give the floor to Mr Herdé, on behalf of the States of Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and good morning. This is indeed not the subject, but you are giving us the opportunity to think about it. I have two questions about that. How does the Minister define "consultation round"? I heard him say the consultation round is closed. Does he mean the consultation within the Kingdom or the internet consultation? The Minister also mentioned an alternative approach, namely the submission of a formal initiative proposal. How, according to the Minister, will that work out in time? The Minister recommends that amendments be made to the proposal of the National Council of Ministers, but if I understand correctly, the alternative he has mentioned requires more time and the Minister does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u25	My assessment is indeed that where the proposal of the National Council of Ministers has already been consulted, it will soon be possible to go to the Council of State and, after meeting with the States-General, the submission of amendments to it will be the quickest way to have a full debate on the differences here too. The alternative path, of course, involves the launch of a new initiative, consultation and the Council of State. That is a delay, but it does not suit me to have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u26	If that's what you're asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u27	Yes. My assessment is therefore that this will indeed take longer than by means of amendments. My advice would therefore be to do so in the form of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u28	My first question was how you define "consultation." Is this limited to what you have put on the Internet, or is this also about consultation with the prime ministers of the three countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u29	The consultation is open and never addressed. So there has been an open consultation. I do not even know if I am free to tell you who has taken advantage of this consultation, but the consultation is involved in the discussion in the National Council of Ministers, in which the countries of course have their authorised ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u30	Does this mean that the consultation with the prime ministers also took place? Or does it still have to take place? That is still not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u31	The route for a state law does not provide for a separate consultation for prime ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u32	I think Mr Herdé's last point is important. We agreed a long time ago in the Interparliamentary Kingdom Conference, in which the parliamentarians of the four countries meet, that there should be a dispute settlement. We have set out a number of principles for this, which can be interpreted quite differently. We have instructed the governments of the Kingdom to come forward with a proposal. Now there is a proposal from the Kingdom Government, in this case the Netherlands, and there is also a proposal from the countries of Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten. The Minister says: if both of these proposals come into the Chamber, my opinion is that the Chamber is trying to combine these two proposals with amendments or try to make one proposal. I think that parliamentaryly is a bit wild west.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u33	It would be, but that's not what I'm saying. First of all, I have committed myself to the Chamber before the summer to come up with either a proposal for a state law, or a proposal from the National Council of Ministers, which has been adopted by consensus. The first one didn't work out. In that sense, therefore, I actually consulted the prime ministers. I discussed this with them at length at the last Kingdom Conference. There it was found that this consensus could not be achieved; perhaps it could have been foreseen. So I kept to what I had promised the Chamber, namely to come up with a proposal that I think is sensible. I will first answer Mr Herdé's question on internet consultation. Once again, I spoke to the prime ministers of the countries at the Kingdom Conference. I thought the Internet consultation was closed, but that is not yet the case. I was just aware that it is still running until 23 June. Everyone, regardless of his or her position in the Kingdom, is therefore free to contribute to this until then. Finally, Mr Van Raak put something in my mouth that I did not say. I did not say: 'Let's also come up with an initiative law'. Yes, I would find that chaotic. I have responded to the wish of the House of Representatives to put the proposal on the part of the National Council of Ministers here. I have suggested that, where I believe that the differences with what has been allegedly discussed in the IPKO are clear, the most transparent way of dealing with these differences is to then discuss them as amendments to the proposal of the National Council of Ministers. Then the special delegates can also express their views on this matter and it is raised in the right place. That would be my advice. That brings me to the points about which...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u34	I have the impression that there is still an interruption on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u35	I am afraid that if we are going to table amendments to a basic document that has now been submitted for internet consultation, we will have another discussion on the same point we are now discussing, namely whether it is not the opposite to the basic idea of the proposed legislative proposal. That is precisely when the legislative proposal already has principles that have not in fact been agreed in the IPKO. You come up with an amendment and then you get the same discussion about, I think, Article 97 of the procedural rules. I'm a little afraid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u36	That seems to me to be totally out of the question, because they are, of course, about the dispute settlement. There's no doubt about that. The question then is which body should be and to what extent the decision-making process should be. Those are completely bona fide amendments that fit within the scope of that law. It is ultimately up to the Chamber to decide whether something is out of order, but it seems clear to me that this should be discussed and dealt with in full. I now come to the initiative law of Van Oven from the year 2000. Let me begin with my conclusion: I leave the judgement to the Chamber. But let me add some relative remarks. First of all, I do not expect any major change in our society as a result of this initiative law. I honestly believe that the States-General does not expect that either, because the law has been there for 15 years. I believe that last year Mrs Hachchi, then still a member of D66, insisted on taking this into consideration. If you look at it in fact, there are fifteen, or actually fourteen, because two are related, of such decisions technically: AMvBs taken without a legal basis. Some of them are from ancient times, for example the Episode Order of 1926 and the Curaçao Order of 1933. In recent years, only a few such decisions have actually been taken around the 10-10-10 transition, but these were all consensus AMvBs. So these are AMvBs in which the four countries have found themselves. That is not, therefore, a terrible injustice or a terrible undermining of the democratic process. So the instrument is hardly actually used, but I get it legally. Wherever it is stated in the Netherlands that self-employed AMvBs do not deserve a beauty prize and are not really desirable, that should actually apply within the Kingdom. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber, especially now that there has been a little more time by letter of amendment to transform existing AMvBs into national laws, and there is a procedure for extending the deadline if necessary. I can reply in the affirmative to Mr Van Laar's question as to whether it will be stated in advance as soon as possible and in detail. Mr Van Raak asked if this would do any good. Well, that depends, to be honest. They all have to be transposed separately into state law, some of which may indeed have passed before. However, I do not think that this will be entirely trivial for two reasons. That is first of all because some of them need to be consensual. Today, everything has become political, so it has to be clear whether that consensus is coming about. Secondly, by means of a state law, anyone can amend things that may be related to them at some distance. I would also like to refer to the interrupting debate that has just taken place. So you get incredibly many discussions to you. I therefore wish everyone the best of luck in this process. I didn't insist; that's what I'm saying. Again, I understand the legal logic that we should actually change it, but I do foresee a lot of work. There are a few of them, for example the Extradition Order, for which there must be a form. Another example is the consensus-AMvB acquisition of money loans in the Netherlands Antilles. It is crucial that someone who still has money from the former Netherlands Antilles knows who he should be with if he wants to claim that money. It is therefore not possible for that decision to go away and no state law to replace it, which makes it clear to citizens where these rights are to be obtained. This may indeed lead to the situation that, if there is no consensus due to complex amendment processes or whatever, it is necessary to extend that decision, in the interests of those who have to be able to achieve their rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u37	I'm kind of opposed to dealing with a bill like this in this Chamber 14 times. The Minister is not about the order of business, we are doing so ourselves, but is it possible to deal with them all together instead of having to hold 14 debates here? That sounds like quite a lot to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u38	Perhaps there is still a possibility, between one extreme and another, of grouping it together, but I assume that, for example, the debate on the Decree on the registration of a Dutch warship with the Minister of Defence, who is responsible for defence for the whole of the Kingdom, will have to be conducted. So that's already a loose track. And there is a difference between state laws and consensual laws anyway, so I fear that it will lead to more than one meeting. Again, it also depends very much on whether that consensus arises. If there is one, it could be a hammer piece in wise words, because it is often things that have been there for years. But I'm never sure. In all the countries of the Kingdom there will be elections again in the coming years and you never know what will become politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u39	Perhaps to reassure Mr Van Raak: of course we also know the phenomenon of 'hammer piece'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u40	However, I would point out that a Consensus Act can only be a hammerpiece if there is consensus on it. We can't control that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u41	You've seen that very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u42	I come to the amendment. I agree with Mr Van Laar that this is in fact separate from the initiative law that is now before us. According to Dutch concepts, this is a constitutional intervention. The right of amendment and the right of initiative are enshrined in the Constitution for the Netherlands. So it's not a small beer; it's far-reaching. For this reason, I would really not like it to be introduced on an afternoon-to-day basis by means of an amendment to the Constitution of the Kingdom, the Statute. The House itself, of course, is concerned with how the amendment relates to the present legislative proposal, but if the amendment is put to the vote, I will strongly discourage it for that reason alone. In the country of the Netherlands, a constitutional change usually involves a state committee first. Then perhaps there will be a proposal, which then goes to the Council of State, and only then will it be in the House of Representatives. I would find it a little frivolous to do it by means of an amendment. That's enough reason to discourage it now. That is why I do not want to go into too much detail. However, I would like to point out that, should a substantive assessment be requested, I will say that I see major substantive objections. A special delegate appointed by the States can now refer back to a decision that has been taken by a majority here if this has not been done by a three-fifth majority, which means that the National Council of Ministers has to take it back. When I read the amendment in this way, an individual Member of the State of one of the other three countries in the Kingdom can do so. Then something that a member of the Lower House cannot do, namely to refer a majority decision here back to the cabinet, could be done by a member of the State from another country. That would create peculiar constitutional relationships. Anyway, there was already enough reason to dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u43	The particularly delegated Bikker, of the States of Aruba, has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u44	I can reassure the Minister: that part will not be changed in the amendment as it stands. I can also reassure him that we have asked the legislative section to table a motion and that we will consider withdrawing the amendment. That motion will call on the Council of State to provide information on the content and scope of the amendment which was then withdrawn. That's how we're gonna move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u45	That's almost right. You'll have to file the motion yourself in the time limit that will come. If you want to withdraw the amendment, just state it and I will inform you that you have withdrawn it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u46	Okay. I will wait for the printed version of the motion and then submit it in the second round. I thought we could do it electronically, but apparently we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u47	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u48	Then that is also when I may be able to give the Chamber an opinion on the motion. So that comes back in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u49	We're gonna do this by the book.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u50	Maybe we should just leave it at that. We're sitting here in a special constellation together. We are now discussing a legal issue. That must be done, of course, but that is my final word, and I think it is of the utmost importance that when we meet, we also look at the key points on which we work with the four countries: strengthening the economy, combating poverty and introducing child rights in all four countries of the Kingdom. I hope that on occasion we will be able to discuss these issues in greater depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u51	We have come to the end of the first term of the petitioner and the consultant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mr. Chairman. I thank everyone for the fact that we are all back together again. However, I would like to point out that if we count equally well, there are more special delegates from the Kingdom than Members of Parliament, although we all think that the Kingdom is important. In any case, it is an essential and important subject for the VVD. I am therefore pleased that Mr Van Laar has taken this up. I would also like to thank him for his answers and for the work he has done with all the people around him. After all, an initiative proposal is not nothing. It's a lot of work, especially if you want to make it work. I'm glad it came to this. I thank Mr Van Laar once again for his answers, because this is not a small beer. It is an important story, because it concerns parliamentary control, control and scrutiny of parliaments in relation to the decision-making that is taking place in the National Council of Ministers. So we have to take it seriously and look at it seriously. Nor am I afraid of the possible treatment of all these national laws, because that only increases us as a kingdom. If we can sit here a number of times, we will sometimes disagree, but we will also see similarities, allowing us to move forward to make the Kingdom more beautiful and better. With these answers, the law can count on the support of the VVD. However, I do have a word of concern about the Bikker amendment. That is also a point for the VVD. There is an initiative law with a certain direction and purpose and this amendment seems almost strange to the order of the day. I think the amendment is a bit out of order, although I do understand the feelings. I understand that this is a request to see how we can provide some more rights, including for the members of the States of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. That, however, has a consequence. The Minister has just briefly indicated that a number of matters give cause for reflection. I can imagine, for example, that the question arises as to why the Minister responsible can still bring forward own-initiative laws. In short, there are still plenty of questions to ask. My proposal is to withdraw the amendment. However, we do want to know what is going on. I therefore propose to Mr Bikker that the Committee on Kingdom Relations should submit this amendment to the Council of State for its opinion. That is, after all, crucial. As the Minister has just said, a change to the Statute is not just something; that is an important point. The VVD would like to change the Statute much further, but if we do so, it must be done on the basis of good information. An opinion from the Council of State is a very good way of doing this. I say in advance that if the amendment is tabled as such, the VVD votes against. That might be worrying and sinful. The VVD is not against the amendment, but it believes that procedural matters are part of it. That is why I am making my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u53	The special delegate on behalf of the States of Aruba, Mr Bikker, wishes to respond immediately to Mr Bosman's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u54	I am very grateful and pleased that Mr Bosman is in favour of the spirit of the amendment, with a number of points aside. I have already announced that I am probably considering withdrawing the amendment that has already been tabled and replacing it with a motion. In any case, I am pleased to hear that Mr Bosman seems to be open to the content of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u55	If you want, you can withdraw the amendment now too. All you have to do is report it and then it will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u56	I choose to do so during my second speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u57	That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u58	You are right, Mr Bikker, because Mr Bikker is indeed saying that he is considering withdrawing the amendment. For the time being, therefore, I assume that the amendment is there. Mr Bikker's considerations will not be dealt with until they have actually been expressed. Until then, the amendment is there. On that basis, I respond and share my views and my concerns. In any case, I support the idea that the Council of State should investigate this further. Finally. The purpose of this debate was that we do not simply arrive at a General Measure of Government without scrutiny from the Chamber. I am grateful that this author has made this proposal. I wish him much strength with the possible further handling, without prejudging the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van Laar for his explanation and his answers. This proposal is a small but good step towards reducing the legality deficit. But this is happening on the side of the Dutch Parliament. It does not solve the deficit on the part of the countries. I assume that the Chamber will undoubtedly support the principle that every people should be able to express their opinion, if necessary through representatives, on any draft that affects them. In particular, a General Measure by the Government has the effect that parliaments are skipped. I feel very clearly to you that this is not acceptable. Neither is it for us. It is precisely because we are democratic countries and democratic parliaments that we want to do everything we can to ensure that people are heard before decisions are taken. That should not only be heard on the basis of numbers. There is a very nice saying that is often used in Dutch politics: unity in diversity. One of the beautiful things of the Kingdom is diversity. I do not think that the solution to many of our problems lies in uniformity. We need to look at how, from this pluralism and diversity, we can come up with several solutions that are acceptable and viable to all. We're talking about the State Visa Act this afternoon. That's where this comes up again. We must find solutions, especially in the interests of all. We must take account of all the interests and yet find solutions that we can all live with. We cannot vote, but we can count on our support for this proposal. We do expect this to be the beginning of several steps. I would ask you to indicate in the second term what you think the next steps could be to further address the legality deficit and the democratic deficit that exist. A number of issues have not been raised, but have been mentioned. These are matters such as the public finances of the islands, the taking or not of responsibility and the taking of decisions for which the account would then end up in the Netherlands. I repeat that the Minister who is now here as a representative has replied several times to questions from the Chamber that the islands have never, I repeat, sent 'nimmer' accounts to The Hague for their own responsibility. Perhaps the Minister could explain that again today. As regards Aruba's finances, Standard & Poor's (S&P) has just issued a report stating that there is progress and that Aruba's creditworthiness is being increased again. So I say to Mr Bosman in particular: do not worry so much!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u60	Since you're not here very often, I'm very generous, but you have to stay within the subject a little bit. I'd like to avoid entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u61	This is my point: Aruba's debt position. I think that the Standard & Poor's report is very special, because it also states that the 2015 budget deficit was 3.3%. So Mr Herdé supports that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u62	The 2015 budget deficit is still under discussion, Mr Bosman. The Financial Supervision College (Cft) has reported. You didn't agree. They've been explaining. You didn't agree with that either. And now you're taking on Standard & Poor's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u63	You do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u64	No, I'm using it, because you're talking about a debt position. A report from the IMF was published last week, which states that several countries have made the policy choices that Aruba has made to get out of the crisis. They make the same choices, namely investing to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u65	This is really out of order. Mr Bosman may respond again and then we shall return to the subject for which we are meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u66	I totally agree with the chairman, but if you use Standard & Poor's, you use Standard & Poor's or you don't. Standard & Poor's report says 3.3% about 2015. Is that right? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u67	There's a lot more to that than 3.4%. It also says: improving credit quality. That too is important for the finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u68	We return to the real subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u69	Yes. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for taking part in this debate. It's progress. We have not had this for 60 years, and now we have it more frequently. Thank you for this opportunity. It is a small but important step towards participating in decision-making over the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you very much. May I give the floor to the special delegate, De Weever, on behalf of the States of Saint Martin? I would ask a few other Members to continue any discussion outside the Chamber or at any other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u72	At present there are three types of legislation which are relevant to the current debate, namely national laws, general measures by the State administration and mutual arrangements. The proposal currently before us limits the possibility of the use of general government measures: these can now apply only if they are based on a state law. If they are not, they will automatically lapse two years after their adoption. The petitioner links his proposal to the democratic deficit. This has been discussed in sufficient detail in the first term. I thank the author for his answer to the questions. There is still one question that relates to the proposed restriction. Hopefully, the petitioner, and as a follow-up to that, will be able to give his views on the following. The use of the legal form of mutual arrangement is undetermined and free of form on the basis of the Staff Regulations. Paragraph 1 of Article 38 of the Staff Regulations states that countries may make arrangements between themselves. This is not, in principle, limited to any subject matter and the design of mutual arrangements is undetermined. Article 38, second paragraph, as it would be if amended, merely provides that it may be agreed upon by common accord, and I repeat: it may be laid down that such rules may be adopted and amended by or by national law. This leaves room for the use of other legal forms. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of legislation. I wonder how this proposal prevents subjects which are currently preferably regulated by State Self-employed Measure, after amendment, from being determined by mutual regulation under Article 38 (1) of the Statute rather than by or under a state law. Indeed, an underlying scheme offers less procedural guarantees and demands than a self-employed measure by the Government. The danger lies in the possibility that this proposal will achieve the opposite of the objective outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u73	I call Mrs Fokke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr. Chairman. This is still a special trip on a committee of which I am not a member. I thank the author for his answers. I congratulate him once again. Even if this is perhaps a small initiative law, when we talk about democracy, this is indeed an important initiative law. So compliments on the fact that after all these years the petitioner has been doing this. Our questions have all been answered. I agree with Mr Bosman's comments on the amendment. I think it does not fit in with this initiative proposal, but it must take account of the feelings expressed by this amendment. It is good that the committee will submit it to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u75	I now have the floor to speak on behalf of Aruba, Mr Thijsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Laar for his reply. In his introduction he raised an important question, namely: we have a Kingdom government and we have representatives of the people, but who is in charge? I think that's very important. You can see that there is a gap in the structure of the Kingdom. Important in this proposal are the primacy of the legislator and the reduction of the democratic deficit. There are many countries within the Kingdom. Each country is a democratic rule of law. Our base is the trias politician, but in the Kingdom we have no parliament. We don't want a parliament either, because it's getting harder and harder. We, as representatives of the people of all countries within the Kingdom, must fill this gap. We need to find a balance so that we, as representatives of the people within the Kingdom, can guarantee the soundness of the administration, legal certainty and the achievement of the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens. We should do that together. That is why the content of our amendment is reasonable and fair within the spirit of democratic principles. We agree with the proposal. We cannot vote, but we support Van Laar's proposal. It is a small step forward, but if the content of our amendment is adopted, perhaps by another route, it is a small step forward. Former Prime Minister Balkenende once said: living together in the Kingdom, working together in the Kingdom. We say: working together, living together but also deciding together within the framework of democratic principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u77	I have the floor to give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u78	At the start of the debate, I have already said that the SP will support this initiative law. I would like to thank Mr Van Laar for his reply, which has not changed our position. I wish him every success in defending the bill in the First Chamber. I like to have this debate, especially with the people's representatives from Aruba and Saint Martin. But it also shows exactly where the inconvenience is. We are talking about a state law that concerns all our countries. The representatives of Aruba, Sint-Maarten and Curaçao can participate in the debate, but the MPs decide. The representatives of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten can make proposals and table amendments and motions, but the members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands decide. So are the relations within the Kingdom. They're not equal. That has to do with the Statute. According to the Constitution of the Kingdom, the Netherlands is ultimately responsible for good governance. I'd have liked to see it different. For this reason, in 2010, when St.Maarten and Curaçao became autonomous countries, the SP voted against the Statute. We are in favour of a construction in which the countries are equal and cooperate as equal countries, without one country being responsible for the other. As long as we have this Statute, we must try to do it as well as possible. It is a pinching corset for the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, but as long as it hasn't changed, we have to do it. I think Mr Van Laar's proposal is an improvement. It ensures that the parliaments of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin are always heard about rules and laws that concern us all; hence our warm support and great thanks. I hope that Parliament will resolve the delay that we have now in such a way that we do not have to hold 14 debates, because then it will become night work very often. We shouldn't do that to ourselves. As long as the proportions are not equal, we will have to continue to show interest in each other. As I said yesterday, Mr Bosman said it today, the Minister said it, and it is unusual but right: there are quite a few people missing. The SP and the VVD have voted against the Statute but have done their best in recent years to criticise, propose and engage in the discussion. Today, too, we see that the parties who were leading the way in 2010 to organise a new political relationship are pushing through and who did take on the responsibility at the time of accountability must make improvements and contact should be made. I regret that. I think that we in the Chamber should think about whether we should move forward in this way. I will make some proposals about this in the coming weeks, because this is starting to be a bit of an embarrassing display, but once again I would like to thank everyone who is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u79	I have the floor to give the floor to Mr Bikker, who is a special delegate on behalf of the States of Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Van Laar very much for taking this initiative, as did Mr Van Oven and all those who contributed to this proposal of Rijkswet. I would also like to thank Minister Plasterk for his answers. One small step for man, one giant leap for mankind: it's a small step but a big, big leap for the Kingdom. That's the line we have to keep thinking about. I am pleased to learn that one of the laws and decisions that will be replaced is the Curaçao maritime letter decision. I believe that this will be replaced by the National Marines Act, on which we have submitted a report because we believe that this could mean a new pillar of our economy. To speak of the Minister, we need to find it where we can work economically together. The IPKO agreement list is packed with economic opportunities. I refer to the study of the fast ferry for the ABC islands and for the Upper Wind Islands and cooperation in the field of internet economy, apps, crowdfunding etc. So we're doing a good job. With regard to the amendment, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 17 have submitted;]] [[that the amendment is intended to contribute to the elimination of the democratic deficit by giving the members of the States of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Maarten essentially the same power as the Ministers who are now authorised to make a proposal for a state law, if they so wish, and by making some related amendments to the Statute for the Kingdom;]] [[that they wish to inform the Advisory Section of the Council of State of the Kingdom on the scope and content of the amendment;]] [[decides to consult the Section for Information on the scope and content of the abovementioned amendment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bikker, Mrs de Sousa-Croes, Mr Sulvaran, Mr Thijsen, Mrs Marlin-Romeo and Mr De Weever.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27570-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the willingness to deal with the motion further in committee. I am very grateful to Mr Bosman for that. Secondly, I can inform you that I am referring to the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u82	The Bikker amendment (Doc. 17) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u83	I should like to thank Mr Van Laar and Mr Van Oven for the initiative proposal, as well as Minister Plasterk and all the others present for their contribution. It has been a real honour for me to be here in this context too. This afternoon we are standing here again under another state law. Together, we are contributing to the motion adopted last year on the clustered treatment of national laws. I think that the first experience with this is successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you very much. Finally, I should like to give the floor to Mr De Graaf of the PVV. However, I can see that he is not present. So I can't give him the floor either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u85	For the sake of clarity, he had already indicated in his first term that he would not be there in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u86	Ah, I wasn't there then. Thank you very much for this addition. Mr Van Laar makes gestures showing that he does not need a suspension to answer. I am happy to give the floor to the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u87	Mr. Chairman. I have been asked a few more questions in the second term, which I shall now pass by. Mr Bosman spoke mainly on behalf of the VVD. That is good, because it is likely that the law can count on broad support in this Chamber. I have also understood from certain parties that are not present here today that they will support this law. So we're happy about that. Mr Herdé asked what further steps the author saw in order to reduce the democratic deficit. One step we have been taking in slow motion for a long time and that is in the direction of the dispute settlement. That seems to me to be the biggest step we can take. It's a good thing we're taking our time, but I'm gonna take it a little faster. So if we move faster towards each other, to which I called you all last week, we can also make faster progress. Another step could be to work out the amendment tabled by the special delegates. At least we are going to ask the Council of State for advice, and then we will look with interest at that advice. As far as I am concerned, a further step is not to review the mutual arrangement, as Mr De Weever suggested. By definition, the mutual arrangement is established by consensus. There is therefore no democratic deficit there, at least not between the countries in the Kingdom, because they all have the right of assent and hence the right of veto. We don't know any heavier forms of division of power. Perhaps the Minister can say whether the scheme is often used, but I do not think it is used for things that are actually in law or in General Measures of Government or Government. Mr Van Raak's support was still there, but he asked if we would not have 14 debates. I've seen the list of independent AMvRBs. Some of them just go on their own, so that'll solve themselves. I can imagine that there will be a number of hammer pieces and then we will have one or two more debates, but at least we will have a piece of democracy. I thank Mr Bikker for withdrawing the amendment. That makes defending the proposal in the First Chamber a lot easier if it is accepted. Several spokesmen have already responded to the motion. It is a little outside the scope of the initiative proposal. So I will not comment on that further as a petitioner, but I am well aware that as a spokesperson I am enthusiastic about it. Finally, I would like to thank everyone for examining the proposal. In the end, it happened very quickly. After 15 years of silence, we discussed this proposal in a few months, which will be put to the vote on Tuesday. As far as I'm concerned, it tastes like new. So I can announce that I will be submitting two more own-initiative proposals this month. I thank Mr Bikker for withdrawing the amendment. Several spokesmen have already responded to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u88	Thank you very much. I would then like to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in his role as advisor to this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u89	Mr. Chairman. I realize that it is not up to me to say that we are controlled by the Chamber and not the other way round, but I share Mr Van Raak's echo and amazement that there are still a number of large parties here in the second term when the Statute of the Kingdom is being examined. However, there is a majority in the Chamber who seems to support all the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u90	More than 90 members. However, a number of Members are indeed absent on behalf of other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u91	I stick to my first-term advice to leave the opinion on the initiative law to the Chamber. I have also said that I may have slightly different or less great expectations than some others, but so be it. I would indeed like to extend the call that when the existing General Measure of Government and State Law is set up, we are all trying to make it short and not use it as a Christmas tree to hang on to all kinds of other things. That is what we are doing. Indeed, I think Mr Bikker referred to the fact that the creation of a ferry will probably make a greater contribution to the well-being of people on the islands than some other issues. On Mr De Weever's point, I agree with what Mr Van Laar has just said. Mutual arrangements shall not be of a general binding nature. I therefore do not think that limiting General Measure of Government will lead to a change in the use of the possibility of making arrangements between countries. The motion calls for information to the Council of State on a matter of legislation and governance. That is exactly the right that Article 21a of the Council of State Act assigns to the Chambers of the States General. It is the full right of the Chamber to do so. If the Chamber votes in favour, I even think that is what the request was made. It's a defined request. I see the clerk hesitant, so he'll know something about it, but one way or the other. The operative part is: "to ask the Section for advice on the scope and content of the said amendment." Since the amendment is known, it could largely go its own way. Should a discussion in the Committee on Kingdom Relations be able to contribute to this, I will be happy to play my role from a government point of view. I think it's a fairly simple request. If there is a need to seek advice on this, my advice would be to do so. I would like to point out immediately that this does not in any way lead to an opinion on the substance of the amendment on the part of the government. We really need to keep an eye on time. Let us first see what comes out of the opinion. If that is positive, or if, in any case, based on that opinion, there is a need to set a course in motion, then the ministers responsible may do so, or members of the House of Representatives who are inspired by the suggestion may do so on the basis of Article 15 of the Statute. If no member of the House of Representatives picks that up, you have to ask yourself whether there is support for it. It may not be a very promising route. There are at least two ways to bring it back here, if one wishes. I wanted to limit myself to that, Mr. Chairman. I had not yet done so, but it goes without saying that I congratulate and congratulate the initiator and the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you very much. I'll take a look around, but there are no further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u93	I would like to thank the author for the answers he has given and the consultant for the role he has played. There was an order proposal, about which I would say something at the end. That problem actually resolved itself by withdrawing the amendment. I see there's a nod in agreement. We shall be voting on the motion and the proposal next Tuesday.
