ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u1	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet, with almost all the speakers here tonight, believes that the reception of refugees is a duty of Dutch society, both on behalf of humanity and on account of the obligation imposed on us by international treaties, to protect those who seek protection because of war violence or the threat of personal persecution. We are doing this obligation to the best of our ability, also in view of the relationship with other countries which have the same obligation. I think it is appropriate to start with a word of appreciation to all those who have committed themselves over the past year and are still committed to managing that great influx, particularly as a result of the war in Syria. By volunteers in municipalities, our government officials at the COA and employees at municipalities or housing corporations is, and still is, impressive work done. We have to note that, fortunately, there is still a great deal of support among the population for the reception of those who really rightly claim refugee status, but that there is also a great deal of tension in many municipalities and that these tensions are focused specifically on the subject of tonight's availability of accommodation. We cannot deny that there are tensions and that we, as administrators, must deal with them properly, without compromising the task we have to deal with refugees properly. In this context, the cabinet has taken a number of actions over the past year. At the international level, Prime Minister Rutte made important commitments at EU level during the period of the Netherlands' presidency of the EU with Turkey to manage the influx of Syrian refugees in particular. The cabinet has also made a number of arrangements at national level. In November last year's governance agreement, a large number of agreements were made, including in the area of housing, which have already been partly laid down in legislation. I am thinking of the agreement, which is related to tonight's topic, that temporary contracts are also possible for independent housing. Another agreement is to allow temporary management and investment in other people's real estate by housing corporations. It has also been agreed that state real estate is made available for housing status holders. In April of this year my colleagues Plasterk and Dijkhoff made further agreements with the municipalities, with a total of 500 million being made available to speed up the participation of refugees. This will enable language and integration pathways in asylum seekers' centres and increase the availability of funds for municipalities to facilitate participation. In this whole process, the question arises as to how much space should be available for customisation and how much national constraints should be imposed. This raises the question of how to organise the administration of the Netherlands, as Mr Sietsma pointed out. The co-governments have often expressed the desire to have as many powers as possible. This also affects the sense of justice among the population, where there is often a commotion about the existence of preferential arrangements. In the House of Representatives, this led to the tabling of a motion which was widely supported. This led the government to come forward with the bill that we are discussing tonight. This does justice to that question of customisation, but also to a fair distribution of living space. Against this general background, I will answer the questions in the order in which they were asked. I shall inevitably start with Mrs De Vries because she was the first questioner. She started by expressing her support for the possibility of tailor-made work, i.e. to deal with this issue differently in municipalities because the tension on the housing market varies widely from municipality to municipality. Especially in the big cities in the west, this tension is present, but I come regularly in areas and cities outside the Randstad where there is no tension but where the housing market is in balance. There is even a surplus at the borders of the country. I also agree with what Mrs De Vries has to say about the wider issues in the housing market, namely that deficits in some parts and surpluses in other parts of the country, the ageing population, the emergence of single and double households and the smaller proportion of families require structural measures. Mr Schouwenaar also pointed out this. For this reason, in recent years, the cabinet has targeted the Chamber with a large number of laws and measures. Combined with the low interest rates, which fortunately now result in a strong recovery of the housing market, I do not pretend for a moment that the housing market is finished. Mrs De Vries asked whether there was sufficient support for the municipalities, because there was a need to do the concrete work on housing. That support is laid down in the two agreements I have just mentioned. Specifically in my area, living, this is primarily a subsidy scheme aimed at sober but at the same time adequate housing. That accommodation is sober because it always has to be affordable. In this context, Mr Pijlman rightly raised the question of displacement. When a large group of people comes to our country for protection, the use of housing and financial resources, I fear, is inevitably so great that you cannot avoid any displacement, both for the living area itself and in the financial sense. The 500 million spent on this cannot be spent on teachers, agents or other purposes. It is then always seeking the balance between what is decent provision, which offers a good chance of integration and the capacity of our country. Hence a subsidy scheme aimed at sober housing with shared facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u2	I hear the minister say you can't prevent displacement. Now 500 million has been allocated to the so-called participation of these asylum seekers. What is the border for this cabinet and for this minister? Is money still being spent on this project? Do people just keep letting people in? Isn't this gonna end sometime? Does the repression not go so far that one has to say at some point: enough is enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u3	The cabinet sets limits against the background of the notion I started with, namely that the Netherlands believes that you should also reasonably protect those who unfortunately have to fear for their lives or personal persecution. We then draw the borders to the international agreements at EU level and with Turkey, on which I have just pointed out. In doing so, you always weigh what additional measures you take. The cabinet has said nowhere that there are unlimited resources. If I focus specifically on this evening's topic, it is true that sober housing has been chosen. I will come to the VNG letter later, which in fact calls for more extensive housing. The vast majority of refugees are single young men. I think it makes sense for you to say: look at the living career of most Dutch single young men. I've been through such a life stage myself, like most people in this room. In it you usually share the shower with three or four people. With hard work, studying and sparing, you hope to reach the stage where you have your own shower and your own front door. It would be very illogical for Dutch young men and women to have that natural way of doing things, and not for peers of different backgrounds. You can discuss this, but Mr Van Hattem asks if we draw any limits. This is one of those limits, which is indeed the subject of discussion, because I also had questions about it in this debate. On the one hand, there is humanity and reception of these people is a treaty obligation. On the other hand, we also say: we do not make it more luxurious than we usually think for Dutch young people, or what is necessary. This also applies, for example, to the right to assistance and rent allowance. We can keep them more limited with shared facilities. This also applies to Dutch people in the same circumstances. So we do not make separate rules for that either. We shape the housing subsidy scheme in such a way that its result is a smaller use of rent and assistance than in the case of self-employed housing. We are also saying to Mr Van Hattem that we must carry out our obligations and our humanity efficiently. I would almost say: Dutch cannot do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u4	I still see part of the Minister's reasoning crooked. He talks about the fact that Dutch young people also have to work to obtain their own, larger and better housing. The point is that a very large proportion of the groups to which it is granted access, for example, the vast majority of Somalis are in the assistance. Then we're not talking about "working for it." In my first term, I already referred to the example that there are now more than 20,000 followers, who also receive accommodation. I hope that the Minister will respond to this later. How's that gonna be arranged? What effect will this have on the displacement that the Minister himself sees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u5	Answers to all the questions that Mr Van Hattem is now asking are simply in my answer. Would it be okay if I continued that response? If Mr Van Hattem misses points, he will find me again, because I will be standing here for a while. I was in the direction of Mrs De Vries answering how we support the municipalities. I explained the subsidy scheme for sober housing. With the change of law, corporations are allowed to provide services and invest in property that is not their own. That was also part of the agreements in the administrative agreement. State real estate is also made available, both for the benefit of the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers and for the housing of status holders. Mrs. De Vries asked about my interview last week, in which I...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u6	I'm fine with the Minister's answer, which I already knew. But I didn't ask that question. In particular, I have raised the issue of how, according to the CDA Group, you could reach a solution beyond those matters. The issues mentioned by the Minister are, in my view, only the temporary solution and not the final one. Once these kids make money or their families come here, they're gonna need an ordinary house. The CDA Group is concerned that you are thinking a little outside the box and, for example, sees that pension funds and investors may want to do something in the social sector but are penalised by the landlord's tax, which means that they do not do so. For example, there are also places where private investors do not build for the middle segment and corporations could take on that role. That's where people can flow through. With all due respect, we know the things the Minister mentions. We try to think a little further and see how you could solve it, other than anything that just doesn't work well enough at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u7	Sure, I wanted to go there as a result of the question about my interview last week, because that was exactly what that was about. I referred to a much-read comic book and the financial position of the housing corporations. That is precisely what concerns the construction work and, in part, renovation work, of which Mrs De Vries, I and, in my view, all the parties in this Chamber are very much in favour. Every year, I send the Chamber an overview of the financial position of the housing corporations and their investment plans. Last week, the independent supervisor, the Authority's housing corporations, made such an overview. The Authority's housing corporations found that, after paying the landlord's tax last year, the housing corporations recorded a result of 5.5 billion, a phenomenal amount. At the same time, it is noted that there is room for more investment. In my conversation with Aedes, the dome of corporations, I have told that conversation more often that I have been indicating for a number of years that their financial position is solid. We've talked about it a lot in this Chamber. I have also indicated that I would make that noise sound firmer with this kind of extreme surpluses. That's what I did inside the room first. As a result, Aedes quickly released a press release stating that there would be investment anyway. That is good news, because we agree that more could have been done, but then it has to be done. For the part that can be delivered by the housing corporations, money is not the problem. I also agree with Mrs De Vries that there is a great task for private investors. In this context, I have already taken a number of measures, for example by laying down in the Housing Act that housing corporations should no longer use their state aid and guarantees to invest in the free market segment, unless market players prove unable to invest. Not only do I know that this is highly appreciated by private investors, but we are fortunately also seeing the volume of private investors increase, both Dutch pension funds and foreign pension funds. Mrs De Vries may know that I have been to Germany, England and Asia, all areas with very large pension funds. They are all very interested in those investments. In the meantime, they are also active in it. There are a lot of new parties present. This gives rise to the possibility of passing on to the social rental sector, making more housing available. Moreover, many of these investors are now investing in the social rental sector as, for example, the adjustment of the housing valuation system and the inclusion of the WOZ value make it possible to invest economically in large parts of the country within the social rental sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u8	Can the Minister also mention an amount for this? How much billion is currently not above the market, but actually committed in investments by private investors in the housing market?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u9	I will give Mr Köhler the exact amount, because I do not know it by heart. I do know that the annual amount available is 6.5 billion. I'm trying to remember as much as I can, but I'm just a human being. Mr Pijlman said that without automatic emergency status, adequate housing for status holders would become virtually impossible. For this reason, he expressed concerns about integration. I note that a very large part of the Dutch municipalities still have no housing regulations at all and therefore there is no prioritising regulation. This is logical against the background that the housing market is far from tense throughout the Netherlands. Of course, the Amsterdam and Utrecht regions require a lot of attention, but this is not the case in the whole of the Netherlands. That is what the municipalities themselves conclude, because without a housing regulation they are well able to meet the demand of their people, including the demand of the recognised refugees. Mr Pijlman is right to say that at the moment a large group of people are waiting in azc's, but we are happy to see that number falling. Today there was another message in the newspaper that the catch-up has never been so great since the great influx of Syrians. So there's definitely movement in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u10	The minister says that most of the municipalities in the Netherlands have the housing stock in order and that there are plenty of houses available, but when I look at the overviews, I note that in almost all municipalities the task of housing status holders is not fulfilled. Isn't that what's wrong with you? Isn't that the difference being passed on to the social rental market where Dutch people are being displaced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u11	It is not true that there would hardly be any municipalities meeting the housing mission. It is a major task in large parts of the country, but an overview is included in the survey of the G32, which shows that a large part of the largest municipalities fulfil the task. Some are ahead, some are behind, but for that the package of measures I have already explained has been taken. Fortunately, the picture is not so bleak that everywhere in the Netherlands there is a tense housing market or specifically that housing refugees would not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u12	I'm gonna take a look at the numbers of the Platform Home again. This shows that a large part of the municipalities have to deal with a number of status holders that still have to be housed. Houses are still to be made available for that. They must therefore be excluded from the available housing market. I see a different picture in that than the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u13	I agree with the way Mr Van Hattem is putting it now. This is indeed the case in a number of municipalities. That is also the reason for my list of additional measures we have taken. That is also the reason for this debate. The problem arises in a number of municipalities. In response to Mr Pijlman's question as to whether the expiry of the automatic priority regime leads to major problems, I would point out that many municipalities do not know these problems at all because they do not have housing regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u14	The minister talks about a number of municipalities, but it is a lot of municipalities where there really is a backlog. Not yet that the province has to intervene directly with a 'placement', but there is a delay. As a result, there is a very strong pressure on the local housing market, which does not necessarily have to be a total collapse of the local housing market, but rather a heavy pressure on the local rental market at the expense of the tenants. Can the Minister share that observation or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u15	If there was no problem, we wouldn't be standing here. I would not have just mentioned the long list of measures. I am merely nuanced by the remarks made by Mr Van Hattem at the beginning. I also explained Mr Pijman's question as to whether the absence of a compulsory prioritization system would cause problems everywhere. In fact, I can see that there is no primacy in many municipalities at all. Apparently, that doesn't cause any problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u16	I don't know if we've understood each other correctly. I did not say that removing the right of priority would automatically lead to problems. I would ask the Minister to explain why he has come up with this measure, because municipalities do not need it at all. I would also ask him to support the argument that this measure would lead to solutions for one group of urgent people, or for the other people on the waiting list. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u17	I have noted that question, the question of what problem is being solved here. That is what Mr Köhler asked for, by the way. At the moment there is actually one black and white choice for municipalities: either there is a housing regulation. Then there is an automatic priority regime for status holders. Either there's no housing regulation. This applies to a very large part of the Dutch municipalities. Then there is no priority arrangement for status holders. So there's no room for customization. Mr Sietsma also mentioned this. There is a very wide range of instruments possible between doing nothing at all and an automatic priority regime. The current legislation does not at all indicate the palette in between. Then you come to add living space. We are making a subsidy scheme available. There is more interest in this than the G32 report suggests. That means a different choice than just for priority. It means a choice for converting empty office premises or former nursing homes. It can also mean just new construction. So that is a different choice than just the one for the forgiveness of the existing stock with a one-dimensional priority regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u18	Certainly, that is all the case, and we have discussed these measures here before. You have also had support for this. What is important is that certain groups in the housing market get the stamp "urgent" because this is necessary because they do not actually come to a home in their circumstances otherwise. Now you have taken out one group and you say that I may give up that status. My question is: why did you take that group out, when in society there is the biggest problem and the municipalities are not waiting for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u19	Mr Sietsma, do you have a question to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u20	I have a question about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u21	If you ask that question now, perhaps the Minister can combine the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u22	I hope I do not confuse the Minister with this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u23	Probably not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u24	The question was about the numbers. How many municipalities meet their targets? At that time it was: many municipalities did and many municipalities did not. I would like to know if the Minister can tell us how the municipalities are on schedule to meet their six-monthly targets, in figures or percentages. It is not a question of one or two precise things, but it is a question of getting an idea of how big the problem is now in realising the task, which I believe the whole Chamber supports, regardless of the specific methodology of this housing regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u25	I think that was in the written answers, but if not, you will receive that information from me in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u26	Let me now turn to Mr Pijlman's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u27	Mr Pijlman asked why the measures for this group are currently being taken. This is, of course, against the background of last year's massive influx of this problem into the centre of the debate. And not only that, it also asked for solutions. This package of solutions consists partly of money and partly of the legislation that I have just mentioned, but also partly of the need for tailor-made work and the sense of justice, which is very prominent in the social debate. In the Lower House, this was also a reason to adopt a broadly supported motion. The feeling of social justice says: "Absolutely, yes, but a prioritization no."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u28	Finally, Mr Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u29	Of course, I know the motion of the House of Representatives. You just said that, and I found that interesting, that there is a need for customization. Who's that? Not in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u30	Apparently there are a lot of local residents, because the House of Representatives has tabled a motion, on the basis of feelings which we all perceive ourselves when we are in the country or following the media, and has indicated the sense of justice. Legislation is, in the end, always a confirmation of the sense of justice of the people of a country, within the framework of the Constitution and international treaties. At the same time, this sense of justice is based on being able to accommodate people who really have to fear for their lives, but also on not granting priority schemes; something that the first article of our Constitution, but broader our popularity, still looks very critically at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u31	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u32	I'd like a quick question if I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u33	On this point, I agree with the Minister, who must take a very critical look at the priority regime and abolish it. I am still concerned with what the Minister has just said, namely that the housing stock is sufficient. I have taken the figures and see for the second period of the mandate for 2016 that the task was only achieved in 62% of the municipalities in the Netherlands. We would still have a deficit of over 5,000 from the previous period. What will that mean for the further displacement of Dutch tenants on the housing market? Does the Minister expect this to mean that even more municipalities will adopt a housing regulation with an urgent obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u34	First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the speedy search. I was talking about a very large proportion of the municipalities, but it turns out that exactly 62% can simply meet the target. This does not alter the fact that 38% are not doing so at the moment. They have the whole range of instruments that I have just discussed. The housing of these people will therefore partly consist of adding new living space. Extra money is available for that. Partly it will consist of using living space that is already there. In addition, you will see that in some parts of the country it does not lead to additional tensions at all, because the housing market is not tense there. In other parts of the country, I can't deny that. Then I hope that these municipalities, housing corporations or other landlords in those municipalities will use the subsidy instrument available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u35	There's literally a lot of tension in that right now. Especially in the municipalities where there is a lagging task, an additional use will be made of the housing market. That's what gets that tension up. How does the Minister see this problem and how can he guarantee to the Dutch tenants that there is enough accommodation available and that not everything goes to travellers and new groups who still enter the country, whether illegally or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u36	Mr Van Hattem, of course, gets the same answer. First of all, this is the observation that you can never ensure that there is no displacement at all in the event of such an influx. That would also be simply unreal. This applies not only to the housing market, but also to the use of money. We can make sure that displacement is as small as possible. That is the reason for the whole range of instruments, including money for extra housing, as we introduce it. Mr Pijlman asked how much use had been made of the subsidy scheme and how much has been made of it. The subsidy scheme has been in place since February this year. The real benefit takes place at the moment the housing is realized and people are going to live there. We have only just reached that moment, because it is extremely fast in the housing world to realize something within a year. Four applications for 25 licence holders have now been completed. More than 500 projects have been requested and are under consideration, for a total of 20 million. They come partly from municipalities, partly from housing corporations and for a large part from private building owners, who want to transform those buildings. The theorem that sounded quite from the G32's report, namely that there would be no interest in it at all, is not evident from the figures. Luckily, there's an interest in it. A recording of 20 million means that the timing is actually expected to run as expected. Of course, you'll see a peak first and then you'll see a fall. Now things are getting better, but the recording so far gives no reason to believe that the scheme would not work. What the G32 report advocates is: make additional taxpayers' money available by no longer demanding joint housing, but giving money for independent housing. This means that the displacement effect is increasing, because you are going to spend more tax money for that. It doesn't fit in with the notion I mentioned earlier, namely that it certainly makes sense for single young people to start your living career in shared living space. That is why I do not support the G32 report on this section. Mr Sietsma began with the observation, which I very much agree with him, that there is not one model for fulfilling the mission. The aim of the law is not to have a black-and-white choice between not having a housing regulation, and therefore no instruments, and having a housing regulation, but simply to have an unbiased priority regime. What matters is to make a whole palette possible between them. I expect that this will lead to a debate, which should also take place in the municipality because housing markets are strong local. In that case, municipalities can consider whether they are going to use the subsidy scheme themselves, or whether they are going to ask the housing corporation, or whether there may be an office building of a private owner that they are going to sit around the table with. Municipalities make a living vision and performance agreements with housing corporations and tenants. This fits nicely in there. It is also very important that a municipality also deals with the provision of building land. At the moment, money is not so much the problem with the landlord's statement. I have just outlined to Mrs De Vries the sum total of housing corporations and private investors. The problem is rather the availability of land. That could be temporary land when it comes to temporary housing. In whatever form the land is made available, this is always the responsibility of the municipality. This law makes this task very explicit and makes it possible to respond to it, depending on local demand and local possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u37	I hear the Minister now talking about making building land available. In my opinion, I have read in previous documents that the cabinet did not intend to pursue an active land policy for the construction of houses specifically for the housing of status holders. Does this response from the Minister mean that the cabinet is now planning to build homes specifically for status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u38	The cabinet doesn't build. The only land I have at my disposal is the land and buildings of the National Real Estate Company, which we offer for sale for housing if we don't need them. The decision whether a piece of land gets a place to live is always a local one, even if the land is owned by the National Real Estate Company. That is why, in line with this law, I find it logical to make this decision locally. I wish I could centrally change the destination of my buildings to housing, but I also always need the municipality to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u39	That's exactly what I meant to say. The Minister now confines it to the realm. I am talking about active land policy by the municipalities, whether or not they are encouraged by the government. Is the line that municipalities are going to pursue an active land policy for building new houses for the housing of status holders, the line that the Cabinet sees as desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u40	Active land policy means that the municipality itself acquires land and participates in risk-taking in housing development. That decision is up to a city council. There is absolutely no need to pursue an active land policy, either for the ordinary land-use statement or for the specific task of refugees. That's a real local choice. Land or a building............................................................................................................................................................. That doesn't matter for the grant. Mr Sietsma, who I was replying to, asked the interesting fundamental question: why are there still mandatory urgency criteria at all, even after the present legislative amendment? There's actually three of them. First of all, I will mention the two to which Mr Sietsma referred: people from social care, including stay-of-my-living homes, and caregivers. Those groups are in a very different position than status holders. Stay-of-my-houses people have almost always fled a home that they already possessed because of domestic violence and usually have to find a home quickly in another municipality because they cannot live near the force. It's often women with children. Family carers are relatively little employed under this law, unlike what you might expect due to the growing social need for family carers. They already live somewhere for economic or social reasons but take care of a neighbor in another city. This is generally very acute: someone has fallen or become seriously ill and really needs care from one day to the next. Moreover, there is a third category, which Mr Sietsma did not mention but is relevant to the status holders as well. A municipality may also give priority to people with economic or social ties. This is also a logical criterion when distributing because of scarcity. If, because of his or her profession, the night nurse is an obvious example of a person living near the work, then a municipality or housing corporation may give priority to such a person. That clause can also be invoked by a status holder who has found work. In fact, it is also a very stimulating measure. I realize it's hard to find work when you come to a new country and the language is not spoken or restricted. At the same time, every year people from Eastern Europe come to the Netherlands on a large scale who do not or hardly speak the language and go to work. So it's not impossible. That doesn't change the task of learning and integrating the language, but in fact you stimulate it because the message is: by finding work, you can quickly get a home in the municipality that has a scheme to give priority because of economic or social bonding. Mr Sietsma asked for a response to the G32. I hope I have already given it to Mr Pijlman. Mr Lintmeijer asked how this law relates to the obligation of equal treatment under the Constitution, the Qualifications Directive and the Refugee Convention. All these documents are based on equal treatment, not priority treatment. So you could even say that this bill is more in line with all these laws and treaties than the current law, which has a right of preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u41	That answer is very short. My group's interpretation of the principle of equality is that people who are actually homeless, whether by cause A, cause B or cause C, should be treated equally. By taking one group out of these three or four categories, you can't say: we're going to treat them more equally? The follow-up situation for people with a refugee background, who do not have a social network in the Netherlands and have not been able to build a specific situation, is also difficult to compare with the situation of people in a somewhat better situation. But even if we do not take that into account, the Minister says that in the law we take one group out of the three groups that are actually homeless now. We are giving this preferential treatment to the Minister, and I say that equality is no longer the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u42	I do not agree with Mr Lintmeijer's description that refugees in the Netherlands are actually homeless. I would agree with him, for example, in France or other European countries which do have asylum procedures but generally do not provide reception until the asylum procedure has been decided. Fortunately, the Netherlands has the habit of receiving people. That has also called for a great deal of effort. If refugee status is recognised, it is of course conducive to integrating and finding work to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u43	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u44	... to find a home, but I find the description "actually homeless" to be wrong in the Dutch way of shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u45	When the minister formulates it in this way, he actually says: leave them in emergency care, because at least they will have a roof over their head. That is not the situation we would like to see. You can also say that someone who has to provide care for whatever reason is not actually homeless. The point is that we have now identified three groups in society, which we say deserve an urgent status because their housing situation, I call it 'actually homeless'; the Minister should call it otherwise 'not fit in with the situation in which they should be sitting. If you take out any of those three groups, in my view you are no longer concerned with equal treatment, but you give a group an unequal treatment compared to the other groups. As I read in the opinions of the Council of State and of the College of Human Rights, this does indeed reflect the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u46	I do not think Mr Lintmeijer meant it so sharply, but I am far from saying that we should leave people in distress. Then I wouldn't be standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u47	I am glad that the Minister says this, because I did not intend to say that in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u48	Then we'll agree again. The question remains whether you are not putting refugees in an unnecessarily unfavourable position. Let me compare this with someone who happened to be born in Apelscha, who lives there until he is 18 and finds a job in Amsterdam. For my part, Amsterdam has inscrutable reasons, but that is what the city itself is about. If that person from Applescha becomes a district agent in the Jordan and has to work night shifts, he'll have to see how he gets a place. That person is not in such a different position than an 18-year-old in the azc that there may also be in Applescha, and that of course also touches very much on the feeling that lives in a large part of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u49	Isn't the Minister's comparison a little limp here? This person from Appelscha voluntarily chooses to work in Amsterdam, whether or not expecting to find a home in that city or in the region. However, these are asylum-seekers who are placed somewhere. Thus, a number of asylum beneficiaries are placed in Amsterdam, let us say a hundred per month. They don't have a choice, even if they'd rather stay in Applescha. The question is whether they should be given priority over housing, but the Minister himself knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u50	Mr Lintmeijer asked me whether it was logical to treat this category of recognised refugees differently from other categories with a priority regime and whether they should not actually have a priority arrangement with other Dutch people, so I replied. I have the impression that Mr Köhler does not necessarily want an answer from me, but in any comparison you can see differences. The position of the Dutchman in the example I have given is not easy either. This experience is widespread in society, and this bill also responds to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u51	I am always very happy when the Minister answers the questions in a very specific way, even more than he is trying to do. But I went into his comparison with a housing seeker who moves to Amsterdam for reasons of work. That example was mentioned by the Minister himself, and it did appeal to me: I was thinking of a potential new neighbor or woman. I said that this person is in a completely different position than people who are obliged to be housed in Amsterdam and who are not offered accommodation elsewhere either. I therefore consider that comparison to be disproportionate and not relevant in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u52	So we don't agree on that. This person will say: I now have that job as a district agent in Amsterdam, I am working night shifts there and I have to wait longer than someone who does not have a job as a district agent and does not work night shifts. That affects that person's sense of justice, and we cannot close our eyes to it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u53	We are under the regime of Article 1 of the Constitution, the principle of equality. My question to the Minister is almost rhetorical, and I refer here to 1914, when 1 million Belgians have been treated as refugees, although they are not exactly housed in the same way as everyone else in our country. Such disasters or great unexpected things can occur, and you still want to show mercy. Could it then be that it is necessary to come up with solutions that do not exactly fit into our prescribed picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u54	I can only agree very much with Mr Sietsma, but that is precisely why we have taken the whole palette of measures. First there was the enormous effort to find sufficient initial care in azc's and emergency care. The follow-up is partly a financial effort, it is really impressive amounts, which we are bringing together with the entire Dutch population for this important purpose, but it is also about the type of measures we are talking about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u55	I'd like to interrupt for the last time, if that's okay. I asked the Minister to support the question of why you should deviate from Article 1 of the Constitution and Article 10 of the ECHR. I referred to the opinions of the Council of State and the College of Human Rights. Do I hear correctly that the Minister says that a district agent from Applescha who gets a job in Amsterdam can be compared to an asylum seeker from Aleppo who fled because of bombs on his head?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u56	If Mr Lintmeijer puts it that way, the answer is always no. I have indicated the position in which one person is and in which one and that that raises questions about justice........................................................................................................................................................................ It is certain that both are in a situation where they seem to need housing urgently, in a place where there is scarcity. We need to find a solution to this and that is why we are here. Mr Lintmeijer asked about family reunification after the introduction of this bill. The targets set for the rest of 2016 and expected to be completed in 2017 are based on the now well-known figures on family reunification. Mr Van Hattem asked for this too. So it's not like they're gonna recover from that. Then Mr Verheij asked for a response to the VNG report. I hope that in the meantime I have been able to answer this question as a result of various interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u57	I have another clarifying question. The Minister says that those numbers for family reunification are not going to recover. Is that on top of the 2016 mission? Or are those figures in the targets to be determined for the first half of 2017? The NRC article was about the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u58	They're in both. This family reunification is now taking place partly and also over the coming months. The forecast for the first half of 2017 is a number of 13,000. That's a little lower than it is now, but that includes family reunification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u59	Just for my image: how does it work now? Are there any planes coming to pick up these people from Lebanon and Turkey? Are they flown to the Netherlands at our expense and are they offered a house here immediately or are they going to an azc first? How is this actually achieved? This raises questions and may also have the necessary effects on these housing problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u60	The procedure for admitting refugees and family reunification is, of course, the subject of my colleague from the Department of Security and Justice. I am not aware that special aircraft from the Netherlands are going to countries of origin. What I understand is that people are looking for very different routes. Often they also try to reach an embassy or consulate nearby to obtain residence papers there. However, I would ask Mr Van Hattem to put detailed questions to my colleague in the field of security and justice, who is simply better at this than I am at home. He'll probably say the same thing when it comes to the housing market. I would have stayed with Mr Verheijen, who asked me what impact this bill has on enforcement. I assume he's referring to the maintenance of the mission. It will take place in the same way, but as I said to Mr Sietsma, the bill does encourage municipalities to use a larger number of instruments in that housing than the black and white choice provided by the current law. I see another question about the VNG letter that I have already answered. However, I felt that Mr Verheijen was right to point out that the way in which you organise housing and allocation is always a matter of balancing interests. He very explicitly indicated that you need to weigh a possibly slower process of integration if the housing is to last a little longer, against the greater tension on the housing market if you deliver faster housing. He's right about that. That is why the cabinet has taken action in both areas. The package includes not only subsidies and legislative measures to speed up housing; there is also additional money to enable language teaching and integration in the azc's, so that people who wait, unlike in the past, can acquire the language at that time and get to know our society. Mr Köhler asked whether status holders should continue to live in alternative housing for ten years. During the ten years Mr Köhler, I assume, refers to waiting times such as those in Amsterdam and Utrecht. He has, I hope, taken note of the national investigation that I had done on waiting lists, at the request of the SP Group in the House of Representatives. For the first time, such a national survey of waiting lists took place. In any case, this study showed a very differentiated picture of the country: in a very large part of the country there are either no waiting lists or they do not come close to ten years. In addition, the research shows the difference between standing on the waiting list and searching. Two-thirds of the people on the waiting list aren't looking. The real search time of people in Amsterdam is much shorter than these ten years. I do not want to say that there are no waiting times, but the chance of people living in alternative housing for ten years seems extremely small. Maybe if people make that choice themselves, but fortunately the housing market in the Netherlands is not so that ten years would be the standard term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u61	The latter is absolutely right. I was referring to the regions. The Minister's answer ignores the problem. I have, of course, also studied that report to which he refers. It shows that the actual search time is only a year or four. That's not surprising. In Amsterdam you register on the waiting list when you are 18, knowing that your turn will be on your 28th. He's gonna look about at 24. Quite a weed. But if that asylum seeker is going to be at the bottom of the waiting list and has no more urgency, after all, he is already housed in Amsterdam and he has to wait another ten years before he can continue to flow. It's really not like this guy, if he's gonna start looking right away, is after four years, there's no question of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u62	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u63	Can the Minister endorse this argument, or take back his inappropriate reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u64	I don't do either. I had that research done precisely because the waiting times of ten years play a major role in the debate. Then it makes sense for you, as a responsible minister, to have proper investigation carried out. This shows a much more nuanced image. What made the most of it was that of those who are looking for less than 5% looking for work. If you already have to divide up scarcity, those who really have to live in the neighbourhood for their work can logically claim to live there just as family carers can. The Housing Act allows any municipality to apply it. Also on the Amsterdam housing market there is room for a group of 5% to be able to allocate quickly. I've worked in Amsterdam for years. I did not live there very consciously, because I, like many of my colleagues, made the trade-off between price and quality. There too there is a great difference between demand and waiting times in the centre and beyond. Mr Köhler undoubtedly reads Het Parool as a good Amsterdammer. Last summer there was an interesting article about a house in the Kolenkitbuurt, which was difficult to rent because all viewers thought it was too small and too far from the Westertower. Also in Amsterdam people make trade-offs where they want to live, and of course they choose the most beautiful house a housing corporation wants to offer them. Again, that doesn't change the fact that there are waiting lists. But the ten years as Mr Köhler put it with the necessary emphasis, is really not the standard, and certainly not in the Netherlands. This also requires some nuance in Amsterdam. Mr Köhler specifically asked about that part of the law that deletes the provision that licence holders should no longer be disadvantaged by those seeking housing with an economic or social link. That is precisely the possibility of giving priority to Mr Sietsma, which I have just mentioned. This is an important provision, to which status holders can also appeal. It is not logical, then, to put that important provision at a disadvantage with the status holders. Because the essence of the legislative proposal is that status holders are equal to others, but also, like others, can once again create priority with economic or social links. In their case, this will be mainly economic binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u65	Under the current law, licence holders cannot be disadvantaged by people with an economic or social link and can be disadvantaged by the change in the law. It is not, therefore, a question of pre-empting the licence holders in this area. They now have the same rights as economic and social agents in the municipalities where there is a provision in the Housing Regulation. After the change of law, they are put at a disadvantage. This also means that if that group of economically and socially bound people is large enough, they will not be taken for years and years and years, because they lead the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u66	Under the Housing Act, the group of economically and socially dependent persons may at most be given priority over a quarter of the housing to be allocated. It's not like others don't stand a chance with that at all. As I pointed out, status holders are also entitled to take such a priority position along this route, as are other residents of the Netherlands. Mr Van Hattem asked about the cost of the measures. I have already outlined a large one of these. What has not yet been discussed and what I think is important to him is that the costs, both emotionally and financially, of a long-term stay in an azc are considerable. It is possible to find work from an azc, it is also possible to take language lessons, but that is really more difficult than when you are part of a community and have found living space. The cost of claiming benefits will be higher if people have to stay in an azc for a long time, higher than when they can flow out and look for work and learn the language. Mr Van Hattem asked me what I think about municipalities buying their own homes for the housing of status holders. That's for the city council's assessment. A municipality is allowed to buy its own homes to remodel. Most municipalities do so through housing corporations or private landlords. From the point of view of expertise, this is often also wise. If a city council gives permission to do so, a city council can give housing. That also seems logical to me in view of the way in which we set up the Netherlands. I hope I have answered the questions in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u67	I have another interruption on the last point. The minister says he wants to leave it to the municipal councils. However, these structures involve state subsidies to take these measures. Does the government therefore consider it justified that new homes are being built specifically for status holders with these state subsidies and that rich tax money generated by all Dutch people is being used to build new homes for status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u68	The subsidy scheme focuses on shared housing for status holders, where our urgent recommendation is always: do so in mixed complexes with other residents. The grant focuses on status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u69	The Minister says this focuses on status holders. As far as PVV is concerned, is it acceptable for independent housing units to be built for status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u70	Grant is only available when shared living space is being built. Towns don't build a lot of houses, you know. I really want to fix that image. They are allowed, but almost all municipalities have already transferred their housing companies to housing corporations a long time ago. Anyway, it's not illegal. If they do, they won't get a grant if it's an independent property. Then they'll have to finance it on their own. They can, like a housing corporation or a private builder, get a grant if it is either new construction in the form of shared housing or transformation from another type of building to living space, also in the context of shared housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u71	Then we have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u72	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to echo the words the Minister used to say. He expressed his appreciation towards all those people in the Netherlands who make sure that people who flee can find a safe place to stay. Without all those people who often do so very voluntarily, the reception for refugees in the Netherlands would look very different. That's one. We have nothing against decentralisation to municipalities. What matters to us is that it has consequences if you do that and you maintain the mission. That just means you're gonna need more homes. If you get an extra influx of people in the Netherlands, you also need extra homes. Otherwise, you will be forced into the housing market. So it's going to have to be built. We're all in agreement on that. My only appeal to the Minister is: please try to be good allies with everyone who can help. If at the moment there are perverse incentives in legislation that hinder this, please get them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u73	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. What's the problem? There are too few homes for a vulnerable group of tenants who are dependent on that scarce group of homes. The number of homes has declined further in recent years. Mrs De Vries referred to this too. The scarcity has increased and therefore we need to distribute scarce resources further. We had a certain arrangement for those who have an emergency status, and that is something other than a priority status. Now the minister says that group is getting too big. As far as he is concerned, that system can then be abolished. I'd say, no, we have to build, in different ways. That is also what the Minister has addressed. That's obvious. We have talked about this before, and we have taken measures. The Minister remains extremely general in his reply. I also think that he leaves the suspicion that this is symbolic legislation. I said that at first. The Minister's coalition partner called this symbol law. That's why they could vote for it in the Lower House, because it didn't change anything. I've asked the Minister to go into that. What is the practical result of this, both for people with an emergency status and for those on the other side of the waiting list? I didn't get an answer. If the Minister motivates the bill, he actually says: there are feelings of citizens in society about the distribution of that scarcity and that also has to do with justice; that has been reflected in the House of Representatives and that is also a reality. He is right in his own right, but I think that is something other than legislation. Legislation is designed to solve problems of general interest that exist in society. I still haven't figured out the problem for which this is the solution. That's what the municipalities think. In the interrupting debate, the Minister just said that these citizens have that feeling, so they feel that these measures should be taken. Yes, but the municipalities have to distribute the scarce resources. They clearly state that they do not need these instruments. That is also logical, because the municipalities that are involved are not making any progress at all. Immaterially, it is likely to lead to much more local discussions about a group of vulnerable people with emergency status. I don't think that's the idea. In short, D66 has a strong feeling that the cabinet does not solve anything with this law, but that the law is made for political reasons. I find that extremely disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u74	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his clear answers. The questions I have asked have almost all been answered, except for the one that Mr Pijlman also mentioned. I noticed that, too. I thought: I will not bring it up again, because I find it difficult to hold this VVD minister to account for the statements made by a Member of Parliament of the Labour Party. But if he feels like it, he might feel called. To be honest, it seems difficult to work together in a coalition like this. You carry out the coalition agreement with good intentions and the one party with which you work speaks a little relativizingly about it. If the Minister wants to feel relieved of this, I'm fine with it. I would like to conclude by saying that this draft law places responsibility on municipalities. That is a good starting point in our domestic administration, and it is remarkable that a number of municipalities are now saying: Minister, save us from this and continue to commit us to something we can do ourselves. I think that the reasoning that municipalities are activated when they feel that responsibility and those challenges can be plausible. I also believe that this proposal does not alter the terms of reference which municipalities have and which also controls the government, quantitatively and qualitatively, in order to accommodate the refugees to which we have committed ourselves. The big issue under this methodical and instrumental stuff is, of course, the morality that we must have as a Western society. In this respect, I would like to emphasise what has been said by several people: in this part of the world, we must feel responsible. Besides, it doesn't just have to be through the government. We can do that ourselves. There are all kinds of social institutions that excel in this. When fixing what the government should do in a political sense, I would say: let's take a closer look in society and let's try together to support these forces as a government. A fair policy that is realistic will have our support. I am happy to take the Minister's answers to our group. We will relate to this in our voting behaviour next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u75	Mr. Chairman. I, too, sincerely thank the Minister for the words he started his reply with. Referring to Mr Sietsma, he pointed out the responsibility that is being taken up in many places in the country by people who show commitment and support the reception of refugees and asylum seekers in a variety of ways and who are trying to help them further in society. That's a big good. I am pleased that the cabinet has an eye for that through this Minister. It is also good that the Minister referred to a number of additional measures taken in the past period to resolve a number of problems. He has received our support for some of these measures. Under this law, that's a lot more complicated. We do not believe that this law will contribute to a solution for the housing of asylum seekers or those with status. Over half a million cheap houses have disappeared from stock in the last eight to ten years. We find it difficult to link one group of house seekers in a vulnerable situation, who, from a sense of justice, have to pay a kind of price, even if it is a symbolic price. We do not believe that this is the way in which the sense of justice in society should take hold. We agree with Mr Pijlman's comment. We do not see this legislation as an additional solution to the housing of asylum seekers. I will therefore advise my group not to support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u76	Mr. Chairman. My phone's off. We all agree that we are facing a great challenge of finding accommodation for licence holders; this year alone there are 14,000. We can respond to this by using the existing subsidy scheme, by building houses and by other creative means. It is likely that some of the needs will be met. However, the question is as follows. If that proves to be insufficient, will we give priority? My group believes that we should be very careful in giving priority to this issue. 'Prior' is really the word used by the law, Mr Pijlman, and not 'urgency'. There will soon be a situation in which you give something to one person in this case a home that you take away from another. This is something very important, namely a home. We must bear that in mind. Whether taking something away from one and giving it to another is just, must be judged close to the people, so in the local context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u77	What does the municipality, which has to assess this in the local context, have for an alternative? We agree that some of that group might be able to go to alternative housing. We can do that now, and then we can. What about the rest? It's mandatory for the Empire to house it within so many months. What can the municipality do other than put those people in the social housing system with priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u78	It can review, in consultation with the corporation, whether it makes sufficient use of the temporary incentive measure and if there is a need for additional units, especially in the short term, if there are many licensed single persons. For example, it can be housed in another municipality. This may have to be paid for, but the law offers the possibility that municipalities, which have space, will take on more responsibility. I'm sure there are many other creative ways. At the moment, more private individuals than municipalities are reporting as landlords. There's a lot of creativity there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u79	Those are all possibilities that are already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u80	That's what you asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u81	Yeah, but they're all possibilities that there are now. So if that offers a perspective in a particular municipality, then it does so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u82	I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u83	Why wouldn't they do that now and then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u84	I think so, too. What it's about is that given the range of options that choices should be made as close as possible to the people, in the municipal setting, and not at a rich level. In addition, housing has traditionally been a municipal, local task. Those are the corporations, and the municipalities for the ground, the regulations and the planning. Finally, it concerns a piece of decentralisation, the local authority's own powers. In all these years I have spent in town, I have heard nothing but that decentralisation was a good thing. I'd like to hold on to that belief. We are also talking about a piece of deregulation. Article 12, first and third paragraphs, leaves the municipalities the power, if necessary after a proper consideration of alternatives, to consider the means of priority. That rule is confirmed in the third paragraph. That one piece is being deleted. To change a law, you need a new law. So it is an incorrect idea to say that there is now a law. No, there's gonna be a law to abolish another law. The resultant is zero. Once again, Article 12 continues to exist in the sense that municipalities always have that possibility, but we think that one possibility is enough and we think that two options are too many.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u85	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. Like other speakers, we appreciate his opening words. He spoke about joint responsibility for this task. Of course you have to look at the law itself, but we are assessing the law in particular in relation to the other administrative agreements and arrangements that have been concluded. One doesn't work without the other. You need to see it in conjunction. This also means that a national direction is needed with regard to the levels of government that take responsibility. They should be re-directed when that is the case. This has been done by creating a number of possibilities for subsidies. On the other hand, letters from the VNG and the G32 and the report seem to show that distance has grown in recent months. I do not want to end up in a discussion about the accuracy of the data contained in that report, but it seems advisable to hold constructive discussions again on the analysis of the situation and the question of where to go. I do not mean that there should be a boost in the luxury of the facilities, but rather in the speed, breadth and creativity in which these facilities can be found. We believe that the Minister should undertake to agree with us that the promotion of coordination with the municipalities in this situation is desirable in order not to remain in contrast with each other when it comes to achieving the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u86	Mr. Chairman. In between the detailed replies, the Minister has also made a number of comments which, as far as I am concerned, justify why this bill, which has no material consequences, would be useful. We are talking, among other things, about people's feelings of justice. Then, of course, the SP always pays attention. He began his speech with the explanatory statement, at least that is how I understood that there is a problem with the housing of licence holders in the scarce housing stock in some parts of the country. That problem has increased now that, temporarily, I think, there is a peak of people who get a residence permit. Then the next question must be asked again. How much of this housing need should we now settle nationally, should be imposed on the municipalities nationwide, and how much room is there for local tailor-made work? In the view of the Minister, this would have led to the motion in the Lower House, which would have resulted from this bill. If this is true, we must, of course, see whether this bill meets the idea of more room for local customization and less obligations for the municipalities that are prescribed nationally. I do not think that is true. The obligation for municipalities, the so-called tasks, remains the same. It depends on the number of licence holders to be housed. That's not affected by this amendment of the law. The obligation for municipalities thus remains the same. The possibilities for local customization are already there, in addition to the obligation. There's not gonna be any changes. There are several possibilities for local customisation, but not a new one in this bill, only existing ones. It remains, therefore, even if this legislative proposal is adopted, that the municipalities have to accommodate people with a residence permit in the short term. You can do that sometimes, for a particle, in alternative housing. Furthermore, this must be done in the social rental sector. Where necessary, therefore, in the event of housing scarcity, this should be given priority in the social housing sector. In my view, these are the facts that cannot be resolved unless the Minister does so in the second term. I doubt that, because in two periods of time I have not heard him reply in writing and in an initial period of time I have not heard him question these facts. The Minister mentioned another argument, which, I think, brought him to the heart of the matter. He said that the motion in the Lower House was also a response to the feelings of justice among citizens who had the impression that residence permits were being granted. That impression had to be taken away. That's what I think it's about. This was also apparent from the motivation of the VVD at the motion in the Lower House. The VVD is for this because it will no longer have the responsibility to explain that licence holders should have a house. They do not have any more rights than other urgent ones, but you will have to put those people somewhere with a certain priority. There's no other way. The responsibility for this explanation is now shifted to the municipalities. The blackbird's gonna be played away. That's how the VVD gets on with Black Piet. By doing so, she tries to keep the PVV off the ground. The PVV is falling for that, too. That's the strange thing. Despite the fact that Mr Van Hattem stated clearly and with arguments in his first term that this actually does not have any meaning, because that task, all the other misery and the cost of it all remain, he nevertheless calls it a step in the right direction. Apparently, the PVV also wants to fool its voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u87	It is indeed only a small step in the right direction, but it is an absurd measure. I made that clear. If it is all so insignificant, left-wing parties could very easily abolish it here. However, I hear all the stories about the College of Human Rights and so on. If it were all so serious, Mr Köhler and his colleague from GroenLinks would not have been so concerned about it. It is and remains an unjustly unexplained principle that asylum seekers should be given priority over other Dutch people. That is simply a measure that we want to see deleted. Even if it is only a first step, it is certainly a small step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u88	I have a question for Mr Köhler. I don't have much with the black-and-white debate. In all seriousness, however, I find it difficult for Mr Köhler to dismiss the question of the responsibility for the accommodation of licence holders as a nasty and preferably avoidable issue. It is a huge responsibility which, as a government or as municipal authorities, we can look at with a positive attitude. Isn't it an honor for every city council member to solve this problem? That is not what Mr Köhler is going to describe as a blackie or a hot potato.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u89	I was not concerned with the responsibility for resolving the issue. I didn't say that either. I was concerned that the responsibility involved was to explain that licence holders should have the right and to be offered a home as a matter of priority. There's no alternative either. That will continue to be the case, even after this arrangement. However, this removes the responsibility for national politicians simply to explain it, because it is deleted in name. Another article brings it back along a back door. The municipalities may then explain this to the citizens. Those municipalities don't want that. I'm sure they're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u90	I'm gonna try again anyway. The government takes responsibility for the mission. That is the fundamental constitutional point that the State of the Netherlands is allowing authorisation holders to take care of asylum seekers' centres. Now we are talking about the acceptance of housing at local level. This draft law invites municipalities, placed in a position, to settle this with the city council and their residents. Surely it can't be that it's considered shuffling off or something like that? Isn't it an incredibly important phenomenon in local politics that you take care of your own residents?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u91	Then I'll try again. We're repeating ourselves. The responsibility to arrange this in the municipalities, if possible with local customization, is already there. These debates are therefore already being held in the municipal councils. This draft law does not change that, nor does it change the obligation to house so many people or the possibility of delivering customised local services. There is a responsibility to explain that there is no alternative but to assign these people a home with a certain priority, because they need a home. The only thing the government does with this is to remove this responsibility at the state level and place it with the municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u92	Mr Sietsma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u93	I am not here to help the Minister, but Mr Köhler is not proposing it correctly. It is not about the fact that the municipalities have to decide that these people should be housed, but that they are now free to choose the species, the way and the way in which they are housed. So far they have not been free and now they are free to choose which methodology they use. As far as I am concerned, this is an instrumental equipment of the municipality to fulfil such a responsibility. I find it remarkable that municipalities are hiding behind the government to give substance to their own local housing policies. She might break that up with other files, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u94	I'm afraid there's been a misunderstanding. Until now, municipalities have been free to offer exactly the same local customization as has been listed in this debate, also by the Minister. All these possibilities to place other than in a regular social home, there are already all of them. All the possibilities for trying to build more are now, under the current law, all of them. It is not the case that only then will the municipalities be given the freedom to provide local customization. That's what they're doing now. There is only symbolic deletion of something in national legislation. That's all it is. We stand by our point of view. I've got another minute, I see. I would like to comment on something very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u95	Do that very briefly, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u96	In the paper, the minister said housing corporations are cheap. Now he repeats that, albeit in less crisp terms. He says corporations have money to invest after all. That doesn't change the fact that corporations haven't been allowed to do all that in recent years. They're all kept short. They had to reject ground positions they had acquired for the future, because they took too many risks and so on. They've lost a lot of free space because of the landlord levy and so on. Now there's finally a little money. Those corporations are already investing that. Those plans are all over the country. There could only be much more if that maled landlord's tax was abolished. We continue to conclude that this is symbolic legislation, but it is a bad symbolism. That is why my group will be voting against it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u97	Mr. Chairman. Many groups in this House speak with loud words about justice, but what is justice? This is clear to the PVV: it is just to stand up for our people and to ensure that they are not replaced by asylum seekers in their own country. That is why we must first stop this automatic priority for rentals. But this is only a first, small step, because the real solution is to ensure that the borders close. Some parties are very concerned about the choice that status holders have or do not have, but the question is what choice do residents of Ter Apel, for example, who live next to an azc and suffer a great deal of nuisance from it? I don't know if you've seen the footage on television of asylum seekers walking into people's houses and stealing stuff and stealing money. Such scenes take place there. People don't feel safe in their own homes anymore. How much choice do these people have to find another place? Their choice is limited, because they will no longer be removed from their homes as long as that asylum seekers' centre is there. The same is true of people who have been given unsolicited status holders as neighbours and are affected by this, which is often the case. Too much of that gets looked away. In the first term, I asked the Minister about the bill cost story increased asylum influx. We believe that this is a sword of Damocles over the municipalities, so that they will still, in practice, allocate homes with urgency. How does the Minister view this? To what extent does he expect urgent provisions in the regulations to be used again? Does he have any indication of that? How is that going to develop? Does that mean that this law will have less impact than hoped? I have already asked the following question in the first period, but it is very fundamental. How can the Minister justify that our scarce homes still go to asylum seekers who have often come here via illegal routes across the Balkans and the Mediterranean, when they have already passed many safe countries? How come our scarce rentals still go to these people? Finally. When will a record number of Dutch people get a new home, such as a record number of status holders that has been awarded in the last month, and will the Netherlands be ours again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u98	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. I see he'll be able to answer right away. The Minister for Housing and Reichsdienst has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u99	Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries started by expressing appreciation for the commitment of many in the Netherlands. Others did, including myself. Mr Sietsma added that this commitment not only comes from the government, but also from others in the Netherlands, which I very much agree with him. Luckily, that's what's gonna happen. Mrs De Vries then added that there was a need to build. I very much agree with her, like everyone else in this Chamber. She said: see if perverse incentives can be removed. A number of measures have been taken in this area and some measures are still underway. In the House of Representatives, the draft law on the adjustment of the landlord's tax is before us. There is a substantial discount for building affordable social housing. A number of speakers commented on the decrease in the number of affordable rentals. This has not only to do with the rejection of homes, but also with the addition of very expensive homes. Until recently, a lot of expensive houses were built. Previously, the Housing Act, which has also received broad support in this Chamber, has re-introduced the appropriate allocation for this purpose. This means that you are obliging the housing corporation to assign to people with the lowest incomes, people below the rent surcharge limit, homes with a reasonable rent. Some of these measures, as well as my firm words last week, relate to the fact that the route of trying to conclude agreements in consultation was first chosen. That was the case for the appropriate allocation. Until 2008, it was in the law. That was taken out with the agreement with the corporations and the municipalities that it would be continued by them. Unfortunately, when I found that it didn't happen and there was expensive construction and expensive allocation.... that is bad for the tenants themselves and that led to a high rent payment... I was forced to take legal measures. Something similar is happening on an issue that we will discuss more often, namely energy saving. There's a covenant on that before my time. It's an important subject. Corporations have indicated that they are not going to meet the objectives of the covenant. I note with the supervisor that the investment capacity is well enough. I am sorry, therefore, to note that in this case I have to go back to legal measures, but I agree with Mrs De Vries that you are always starting with the road of 'can we make good agreements in consultation?'. That's always the first choice. I hope that I have answered Mr Pijlman's question in the spirit of 'we have to build'. Mr Pijlman and Mr Sietsma asked me for a response to Mr De Vries' statement in the House of Representatives that this is only symbolic legislation. They asked for it in the first period. Of course, I do not agree with Mr De Vries. I have indicated in detail that Mr Sietsma also mentioned the fact that this bill actually strengthens the municipalities for the whole range of measures and not for the black-and-white choice of 'a hard priority rule or not at all'. I was a little surprised when Mr Pijlman said that it was not intended to have more discussion at local level, but perhaps I did not fully understand him. I know D66 as a great champion of living democracy. Such an essential subject needs to be discussed at local level. If you don't talk about such an important subject, you get suboptimal decision-making and anger. It is therefore important that the whole range of measures be reviewed. Mr Schouwenaar already illustrated this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u100	Of course, that's not the point. We have also just heard from the Minister: no additional tools are provided at local level to find solutions. We don't need this bill for that at all. In our view, the idea behind this legislative proposal is not that people with urgent status should be discussed more and more at local level, or at least that should not be the idea behind it. The aim of this legislation is to solve current social problems. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u101	This does not immediately bring us closer to each other. There is a whole range of additional measures, as has just been outlined. To a large extent, this also has the support of Mr Pijlman. I note, for example, that this subsidy scheme is being properly used, but I think it should be used more. I'd love to have more empty offices and former nursing homes rebuilt. Apparently, that doesn't say that to everyone on the retina. This debate at local level, which I therefore welcome, which I believe is inevitable and which you should take on board, will lead to the whole range of measures being discussed. The question then also arises as to who invests. Is that indeed the housing corporation? That's the most obvious choice. Is that in own buildings, in new buildings or in buildings of others? That is a very important point. It also has to do with spatial planning in such a city or village and the availability of facilities. That must be discussed locally and then resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u102	I hear the Minister say that he would love to see more former care homes rebuilt for the reception of asylum seekers and status holders. This raises the question: wouldn't the Minister find it even more wonderful if we could rebuild these nursing homes and use them for the habitation of our elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u103	Mr Van Hattem has a great capacity to broaden the debate. Then I'll give you a broad answer. There has been less and less interest in living in nursing homes for decades. Long before this cabinet took office, the elderly in large numbers indicated that they would prefer to live at home rather than in nursing homes. They were very sixties and seventies. So these homes are gonna be empty. I come across wonderful examples throughout the country of care homes that are either for the elderly but with modern ideas or what I personally find more beautiful, a very mixed habitation of partly elderly people, partly young people who find a starter's home and partly status holders, a very mixed palette. Anything better than those former nursing homes being empty. Unfortunately, I also come across this in a few places. Then I am happy when there is a local debate that raises the question of whether the status holders' job could be filled in by remodelling the care home with a subsidy scheme, so that some of our young people can live in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u104	Now we come to a rather essential point. Of course, it was this cabinet that had to close the nursing homes, because there was no money left to take care of our elderly. One of the wonderful examples mentioned by the minister and mentioned in all kinds of magazines is Genderhof in Eindhoven. I know that former nursing home very well. All kinds of target groups have now been included. The Minister talks about the local debate. The locals, the people who still live in lean homes next to that nursing home, complain about all the nuisances that occur from that building. At first it was a beautiful nursing home where the elderly had a beautiful old age and now it is one big chaos. Is that the image the minister has for our nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u105	I know that there are enthusiastic reactions at Genderhof on the one hand and complaints and concerns on the other. I have visited many such projects in many places in the country. I was in Spijkenisse last week. It's going well there. There is also a combination with start-ups. I have been to Rotterdam-Zuid for an example, I have been to Voorst for an example. Many places in the Netherlands are working on this. With renewal it is always experimenting and searching. Not everything is going well right away, but I hope we will agree that, if a nursing home is empty again, that movement has been put in place long before this cabinet takes office, it is much better to have a new destination than to have it left empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u106	Let me return to the previous point. Of course, that local debate must take place and that is taking place. The Minister initially replied to the letter from the G32, but he did not comment on the argument that they do not need this legislation because it does not add anything to their instruments. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u107	I have every respect for the G32's position, but every law we deal with here is a matter for the interest groups. It's part of an open democracy. I have never been able to meet all the wishes of all the interest groups. However, I am responsible for extensive consultation. This law is the result of extensive consultations with the VNG on feasibility. I do not need to convince them all and make them all agree, because municipalities have their opinions dependent on the political majority in the municipality. The UNG has clearly stated that the law is enforceable in this way. Before that, the consultation was very valuable. I note that the G32 say: this law should not have been necessary for us. I note that it is also said quite widely in society, at least in the House of Representatives, that this does indeed meet both the need for customisation and the feelings that live among the population. Then I might make the G32 a little less happy, but a lot of other people in society a little happier. This is, of course, very often the case in a democracy. Then I come to Mr Sietsma. I have already said that I very much agree with his description of the responsibility that the government has. I have outlined this as an important task, not only in treaty law but also in human terms. His observation was that this is reflected in the target that remains. In that sense, I also very much agreed with him when he addressed Mr Köhler on the play-by-play of the blackbird. I would like to say to those who do not agree that we are indeed investing a great deal of social money in the reception of recognised refugees. There's inevitable displacement. I'm not trying to deny that. However, I also see it as my responsibility to ensure that these effects are as smooth as possible, both to the population already present in the Netherlands and to the refugees. We must not deny that it is a difficult and painful process. Then we are going to violence the truth and people will feel even more misappreciated. We need to guide it well. This law is trying to make an important contribution to this. In the way in which we set up the Netherlands, it is logical that municipalities ultimately determine the content of the housing needs. They are indeed being imposed on them by me. I take responsibility for that. That can be local customization in this way. Mr Lintmeijer began by commenting on the points on which we agree. I always appreciate that. He then raised the points on which we do not yet agree. He specifically dealt with the disappearance of cheap homes. I have just told Mrs De Vries that I have taken measures. Assigning it is appropriate is one of the subjects on which I cannot make all interest groups happy. At least I assume that you also get angry letters from housing corporations that ask: why did the Minister oblige us to allocate appropriately? I told you this was because the voluntary agreement didn't work out. It is precisely aimed at raising the stock of affordable homes. For the first time in last week's report from the regulator, it is apparent that the number of affordable housing in the corporation stock is rising slightly again. As far as I'm concerned, that has to be much bigger. That is precisely their core task. They're very good at that and they can get even better. Mr Schouwenaar stressed the importance of local government customisation and added that this could relate not only to the use of the grant scheme but also to agreements with other municipalities. He's right about that. A municipality may agree with another municipality that all or part of the tasks are to be fulfilled there. I still owe Mr Sietsma an answer to his question as to what is going to happen with regard to the achievement of the task. Mr Van Hattem had already looked up that 62% had been achieved at the moment. For the second half of 2016, there is a target of 23,000 and a deficit of 5,000. We now see an acceleration in the availability of homes. This is logical because the procedure, planning and financing of housing is time-consuming. The mission for the first half of 2017 is 13,000. This includes the expected family reunification, but this is significantly lower than the target of 23 000 for the current year. That is why I am positive about the possibility of continuing to catch up. Then I come to Mr Verheijen. He has rightly said that this legislation must be seen in conjunction with other legislation and agreements. He said that the reaction of the municipalities showed that we must continue to seek each other out and that we must ensure that it is realized. He called it a tooth, but eventually that comes down to building, building, building. The search for the municipalities is permanent, because there is a national board of directors for the housing of the refugees. That was one of the results of the consultation last year. I hadn't mentioned that yet, but that's still going on and working well, and it also produces those periodic reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u108	From now on, I will only allow one more interruption at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u109	You have a national board of directors that imposes all kinds of measures on municipalities and at the same time you talk about local customization. How's that gonna match? I see from the municipalities that they are subject to all kinds of measures under these administrative agreements and such a national board of directors, and in the meantime they are expected to be able to provide local tailor-made services. How is that consistent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u110	Why not, would be my reaction. Like the other people present in this room, I come to municipalities where housing is not a problem. I was in Twente recently, and there's no housing market cut. The housing of status holders also went smoothly there. In Deventer ditto. Spijkenisse is located on the edge of the Randstad and has an excellent connection to Rotterdam, but there is also a relaxed housing market. That is a very different issue from Amsterdam or Utrecht. I was with Mr Verheijen and the tooth. I already discussed the law that I hope will also be soon in the First Chamber, about the investment incentive in the landlord's tax on cheap housing. In addition, I will work on two measures for medium-cost rentals to improve the flow. There will be a consultation table of municipalities and investors. There will be a change in the legal area for zoning plans, which will also allow for medium-cost rentals. As I note in many regions that the demand for housing is greater than the available planning capacity, in the coming months I will also go round the table with the newly formed housing market regions and I intend to visit them all as well to see how they will fill that gap between the expected demand and the available building land in the near future. This is in the hands of the provinces and the municipalities. I would also like to continue to assume my responsibility in the last few months of this cabinet. I owed Mr Köhler the answer to a first-term question. He asked how much has been invested in the free sector. According to Capital Value research, there's about 6 billion available. I have less precise figures on this than on the corporation sector, because it has to report on account of the state guarantee and the legal framework. This does not apply to pension funds and other investors. I can say that Dutch pension funds invested 1.6 billion in new rental homes in 2015. This is a doubling compared to 2014. The percentage of free sector rentals has doubled in recent years, so there is growth in this. Here too, demand is so great that even stronger growth is needed. That is also one of the reasons why I have spent so much time approaching domestic and foreign investors. Mr Köhler once again referred to his view that the possibilities offered by this law are already there. Once again, the current legislation is very black and white and, as far as I am concerned, does not make sufficient use of the additional instruments available and which we have, to a large extent, created specifically for this issue. That local debate can really help to use the other instruments and thus provide extra living space. I, too, was surprised by the remark about playing the blackbird away. Mr Sietsma rightly addressed Mr Köhler. If that were my aim, I would not have taken this whole palette of measures and letters were not sent every six months under my responsibility to every municipality in the Netherlands about the number of status holders to be housed. Furthermore, Mr Köhler saw me very surprised by his statement that corporations were not allowed to invest. With all due respect, that's bullshit. Corporates should no longer invest in commercial activities, except in an area where urban renewal or shrinkage is at stake and private individuals do not want to do so. A clear lesson from the parliamentary survey was that they should use their investment capacity for social housing. That is widely supported in the First and Second Chambers. There is a lot of financial space for that. This was also the subject of my firm statement last week. Indeed, someone is stingy when he has a lot of money and yet says he doesn't have any money. I am glad that the response to this firm statement was that they were going to invest anyway, because that is what this is about. Whether it is existing housing that needs to be improved or new construction in deficit areas, if Mr Köhler would like it and there would be no landlord tax...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u111	I am giving Mr Köhler the opportunity to respond, because the Minister is now a little filibustering, but he is getting one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did not say that under the new legislation the corporations were no longer allowed to invest in social housing, but I said that the increased supervision requirements, which have been running in parallel for some time, have meant that a lot of corporations have had to pay off planned investments, for example because they had assumed irresponsible ground positions. This was the case with a number of corporations, as the Minister hopefully knows. We have had to reduce or temporize investment or stop preparing for it. In addition, for a long time people had to use the money that they got off to cough up the landlord's tax. In the meantime this is no longer necessary, because they have increased the rents enough to be able to pay them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u113	What is your question, Mr Köhler?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u114	My question was how can you deduce from all this that the corporations have been on their money lately and did not want to invest. What the corporations brought out after that interview was not in response to that interview, but the intention to invest had been there for months, if not years. All these plans are already ready in all the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u116	The regulator has stated that after payment of the landlord's tax there is a result of 5.5 billion and that more can be invested. At the same time, in this Chamber and in almost all municipalities in the Netherlands, it is said: build and isolate. Well, then it makes sense for me as a responsible minister to tell the corporations that the supervisor and I think they have the space. That is what I have been saying to the corporations and also to this Chamber for years, because these reports come every year. If there were no landlord levy, the surplus would not be 5.5 billion but 7 billion. Then there would still be no house attached to the current state of affairs. That is what I said to the housing corporations on Monday, not for the first time. They then started to tap a press release that they brought out on Thursday. I'm happy about that. It is further paper, but the core thing is that we need to invest. Isn't that what everyone here says? Wouldn't it be weird if, as a responsible minister, I said that they were the ones who stole that money, but that we were all the ones who vouched for it? There's an incredible amount of rent payment going their way. We have made sure that the investment capacity has to go all the way back to social housing, and indeed not to commerce. Land positions that are not aimed at social housing should indeed be phased out. That makes sense, too. Housing corporations have been very seriously affected by land positions for free-sector housing. The parliamentary survey was uncomfortable about that. Doesn't that make sense for me to intervene? That is because of the argument that corporations were not allowed to invest. Mr Van Hattem asked about the bill on the cost story. That's in consultation. Mr Plasterk takes stock of the reactions in society. On this basis, the form in which the legislative proposal will be submitted will be examined. Will the introduction of the law lead to a greater choice of housing regulations with an urgent status? That is how I understand Mr Van Hattem's question. To be honest, I do not think so, because at the moment there are a lot of municipalities with a relaxed housing market, which will not therefore opt for that urgency statement either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u117	One question, Mr Van Hattem. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u118	I would like to comment more on the claim that the housing market is relaxed in many municipalities. I just looked up the number of Spijkenisse, municipality of Nissewaard. According to the latest figures on 1 November, there was a deficit of 110 in the targets. The head start the minister might refer to was from January 1st. Over the past year there has been a constant delay in the setting of targets. Other municipalities mentioned by the minister, such as Deventer, are also lagging behind in the mandate. I do not know what figures the Minister has, but there is a significant cut in the housing market in the relevant municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u119	That question about krapping is not the same as whether sufficient housing has been allocated. I was in Spijkenisse to look at a renovated nursing home; I think that in that one nursing home 110 people could already. That a municipality doesn't make that choice is up to that municipality. That is why I consider the local debate to be important. It's really something other than the question of whether there's room. Finally, Mr Van Hattem asked me how I can justify the fact that scarce rentals go to people who have reached the Netherlands through a number of safe countries. Those are two different questions. The application for asylum is assessed by the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers and the IND. If people can rightly claim that they have to fear for their lives or personal persecution, these authorities will conclude that someone in the Netherlands will receive protection, at least for the period necessary for that purpose. It follows that people must be given housing. I am responsible for that second part, and that is what the debate is about. Our human and treaty-based responsibility carries with it that we allow people to be prosecuted, and that we then do so with decent housing. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-11.u120	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose to vote on the bill next Tuesday.
