ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. At Alliander, two top people make four tons. This is not the intention of a company that mainly has a public function. For this we have set a public standard within the framework of the Law standards remuneration top officials public and semi-public sector, the Law standards top incomes. I believe that the Minister has found, after examination, that it is strictly legally possible for Alliander's directors to "scrape" four tonnes, but I suspect that the Minister is not happy with that in his heart. Alliander is a daughter of Liander, or vice versa, but Liander is subject to the Law on Standards Top Incomes. That is why I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that four tonnes for Alliander drivers are disproportionate to the predominantly public tasks;]] [[noting that top executives of Liander are covered by the Top Income Standards Act (WNT);]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Alliander's shareholders, to bring the fees more into line with WNT standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30111-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I've prepared a motion and I have a question for the Minister. The Top Income Standards Act limits salaries in the public and semi-public sector. That is good, because it must be for the government, in education and care, and for example for housing corporations, not for earning. If someone goes over the line, it is generally corrected by the inspection or by parliamentary questions and public opinion doing their job. Sometimes, however, something slips in between, a construction that everyone in society and here considers undesirable, but which is not illegal in the strict sense of the word. Mr Van Raak just mentioned one. That is why I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the evaluation of the Top Income Standards Act shows that the law meets its purpose;]] [[noting, however, that sometimes there are (false) structures which, although not illegal, are undesirable in that they actually lead to a higher income than provided for in the law;]] [[invites the Government to cut off such structures, where appropriate, by making them unlawful if and where necessary, by amending the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30111-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	I have a brief question for the Minister. He writes in the evaluation of the law that he intends to extend the so-called institutional scope of the law. Does he also want to look specifically at decentralised holdings in which municipalities, provinces or water authorities are shareholders? I think they're paid above the norm. I would like to mention once again the striking example of the situation at Alliander. It would be worth a sweet thing to me and many with me if that came to an end. That is why I ask the Minister whether, when he thinks about extending the institutional scope of the law, he would also like to look specifically at these decentralised holdings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	The motion refers to false constructions. I understand that, but I have one more question. For example, is the construction for the new Chief of the National Police who will receive a dismissal allowance in addition to the salary of the coming years, in the eyes of Mr Kerstens, also a sham construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	I said during the general discussion with the Minister when we were talking about this case that, in my opinion, the law should have been followed in this situation, in the sense that the cabinet had been asked for an exception. You can do that in incidental cases. However, we must not work around the law in the way it happened here. So the answer to Mr Koolmees' question is that, in my opinion, this construction should not have been used in this way and that it certainly cannot be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	This construction is now accepted by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	I think it is difficult to take this construction, which is not illegal at the moment, with retroactive effect. My motion shows that, in my opinion, this was never again. This is a construction that is undesirable and which, like all other constructions, has just been called "Alliander" needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Kerstens, we have also approved the Minister's evaluation. Progress has been made on a number of points. The CDA agreed with the WNT1 at the time, but it wants to raise the norming of top income to a higher level and to give the implementation and implementation of the law ample time before follow-up steps are taken in, for example, a WNT3. That's what the CDA wants extra attention for. What does the CDA want? The CDA wants enforcement to take place today if, knowingly and knowingly, we are talking about bogus structures. Mr Kerstens also said it. We do not believe that this is happening enough today. Today, the organisations are getting away with only paying back what has been received too much. Then it's easy for these people to calculate risks. We are therefore tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the evaluation shows that some institutions use structures or at least set up their legal form or presentation in such a way that the WNT is not or only partially applicable or effective;]] [[Whereas effective standardisation of top incomes depends on the extent to which law avoidance and bogus structures are addressed;]] [[Whereas legislation is or falls within the scope of the effective enforcement of the standards of the law;]] [[calls on the Government, in the enforcement of the Standards Act, to make proposals to fine bogus constructions and law avoidance and to inform the Court thereof before 1 June 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30111-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	The Minister can answer directly, I see. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. I hope that the third motion will be presented in this way, so that I can give a precise opinion on this too. Let me begin by answering Mr Kerstens' question. The answer to that is yes. So I'd be happy to agree to include that. Then I will come to an opinion on the three motions. Perhaps I should say a word in advance about the situation in the company Alliander and the network company Liander, because it was referred to by various groups. This has indeed been investigated by the inspection: this situation complies with the current law. This is because the network company Liander is covered by the Standards Act, but not the participation above that, Alliander. That is the law now in force. A number of motions have perhaps been tabled in response to this situation. In the first motion, tabled by Mr Van Raak in part No. 93 is, in any case, explicitly referred to. The motion calls for consultation with the participation, which is therefore not covered by the Top Income Standards Act. Frankly, it is not within the scope of my portfolio to discuss remuneration policy. I think that's exactly what I can't strictly do anymore on the basis of my responsibility. I have some ideas about it. I can very well imagine that, as I say here in public too, the parent company Alliander moderates incomes. I would like to call on the shareholders, provinces and municipalities to take a serious look at this. That's what I do in this place in the open, but that's where my role ends. If I consult with them, it would be assumed that I can deal with them, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	The situation is quite unique, because the House of Representatives has shown itself to be very critical in the discussions. The Minister is also very critical about this and says that he is prepared to say in public here that things have to be different and that he would want it to be different. Is the Minister prepared to contact the shareholders, for example the city of Amsterdam, and I also believe the provinces, and to express those feelings to them? Does he wish to inform them, for example by means of a letter, that these are the feelings that live in the Chamber and with the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	The Top Income Standards Act has as its consideration not to bring participations under the scope of the law. In such cases, it is the governments themselves that determine income policies through the Supervisory Board. That is the legal framework. Indeed, I think that the municipality of Amsterdam, the province of Gelderland and other shareholders of this company Alliander should seriously ask themselves whether it is not reasonable to bring salaries to a level corresponding to the level of the WNT. I say that here and I think that this message will reach those involved, but I think that ends what I can do. I would be happy to send another copy of the stenography report, but that seems to me to be superfluous. I therefore agree with Mr Van Raak's views, but do not allow me to go into consultation, because then I will be just outside my framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	Doesn't this example correctly show that Alliander should have been covered by that law? If we set a public standard for organisations with public tasks that are publicly funded, which Alliander mostly does, should we also consider whether this type of organisation should simply be covered by that standard and by that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u15	That brings me to the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr Amhaouch called for an extension of the scope of the WNT. These two motions, in my view, actually have the same effect, as I do the motion for a resolution on item No. Let 95 get through to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u16	As regards the motion in part No. 93) on which I have heard the arguments but not yet a final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u17	This means that, with all sympathy for the intentions, I must discourage the request for consultation with the authorities. I have made my views very clear here, and I have once again been challenged by Mr Van Raak. The motion in part No. 94 calls on the government to identify bogus structures and to ensure that they are avoided as far as possible by means of further legislation. That seems to me to be the purpose of the law, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion, it says "such false constructions." There is, of course, a whole political debate behind that word'such', because what is a false construction and what is not? There will always be borders. This will be addressed in the legislative process. I'd like to leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. I believe that the motion in part No. That is why it is important for the European Parliament to be able to give its opinion on this matter. I repeat what I just said. When a limit is set to something, you always keep saying that there is strategic behavior around such a border, which will soon be perceived as false constructions again. I do not know if this will solve all the cases, but we are constantly working to ensure that the things that we really regard as undesirable do not occur. I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber on these two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u18	I have the same question to the Minister as to Mr Kerstens just now: about the example of the appointment to the national police. In that case, there was action within the law, so it was allowed by law, but it was a strange construction. So it's not a fake construction, it's a construction. The motion states that such a thing should no longer be possible; Mr Kerstens has just confirmed that. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u19	No. I believe that the motions call for the identification of bogus structures, for example, as a result of marginalities in participations and, in my opinion, especially in regional holdings. In this case, the ARAR has simply acted. A person may receive a dismissal allowance and the ARAR lists precisely the conditions for such compensation. There's been an act in there. The only thing the Top Income Standards Act says about this is that the severance allowance should not exceed €75,000. This falls in there. We have no intention of changing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u20	That's not how I interpret this motion. It says literally: "Does the government ask for such (false) structures (...)." I just asked Mr Kerstens if this includes the national police. His answer was yes. Furthermore: "(... if necessary, to cut off the pass by making it unlawful if and if necessary by amending the law." In other words, the government is being asked to declare such a structure as the national police to be illegal and to make it impossible to do so. If such an example does not fall within the scope of this motion, this is simply an empty motion; then we do nothing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u21	That's the last thing I'd like to contradict. I believe that the debate, from the earlier AO and also from the examples that the authors have just given, has shown that it concerns, for example, regional holdings and their boundaries, and other constructions. That seems real to me. I have already said that I intend to do something about this. That's what I'm being called up for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u22	I explicitly asked Mr Kerstens whether this included the example of the national police. The answer to that was yes. The Minister is now giving a different explanation. I think that is relevant to the assessment of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u23	I would add that I find it a bit annoying to talk about an individual case here. That's what I said in the AO. You're talking about a person and a situation. The operative part of this motion makes it quite wide possible to visualize all kinds of dummy structures. I have already said that there is still a discussion behind the word'such', namely: what situations do you really want and can you really cut off through the law and which do you not? This debate is, of course, fully reflected in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u24	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
