ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u1	I have received written answers from the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u2	We shall begin with the answer of the Secretary of State in the first term, but only after I have warmly welcomed him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a brief introduction and then I'll do the answer in four blocks. At the end of my introduction I will give an overview of those four blocks. We are now starting this debate around half past three and you will hear the same question in almost all Dutch houses in an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u4	How did the Secretary of State succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u5	You are ambitious about the speed of this debate. I don't know if we can live up to that. I think that in many Dutch houses the question sounds: what do we eat today? We rarely consider how luxurious it is that we can choose. That we should not, as in our long human history, look for food ourselves. We rarely consider how this can be done. It can be because this morning farmers rose to milk their cows at 5 p.m. because all summer farmers were harvesting from morning to midnight, because nearby, in the Westland, gardeners set up the most impressive vegetable growing in the world. It can be because there is a food sector in the Netherlands, accounting for about one tenth of jobs and our national income, which has developed an innumerable amount of products. It can be because with super smart logistics all this food is fresh in a grocery store, on the market or in a specialty shop every day. There is an impressive world hiding behind that one question "what are we eating today?'. For a lot of parents, this isn't just a question. They want what's best for their children, but they wonder how to do it. Horendol is the result of the reports about what now turns out to be super healthy or what is against expectations in fact very unhealthy. Whether it's bread or not? Is it or is it not fruit juice? Parents are well aware that they are important choices. It's like Michelle Obama said last year: "With every healthy meal and snack you give your children, not only do you feed them today, but you shape their habits and taste for the rest of their lives." What's at least as important is eating together. Dinner together, all of us at the table. Families who eat together often cook themselves. As a result, they eat healthier and pay more attention to what is on the table. From research we know that their children often do better at school. They are better able to cope with setbacks in life and they are socially stronger in their shoes. All at the table; it's a wonderful metaphor for our society. Attention to each other, to dig into each other, to care about each other, that brings us further. A little less magnifying our differences and better managing to bridge them. This country has come a long way by polding, by understanding each other and by bringing together good ideas and thus bringing out the best in each other. That is how I want to have this debate today. When Mrs Lodder had a cookbook in her hand last Tuesday and offered it to the President, I was reminded of the good example recently set by the sports spokesmen by holding their debate. They did that as a statement. I had the vision of a dining table in this room for a moment. Together at the table, no better place to talk about the future of our food anyway, because as another former resident of the White House said: "All great changes start at the dinner table." That's what Ronald Reagan said in his farewell speech. Today's Thanksgiving Day. A lot of American families are joining us at the table tonight, so there's hope. All the big changes start at the dining table, and they're needed. Within one generation we are possible with 10 billion people on Earth, more than five times as many as 100 years ago and 40% more than today. At the same time, prosperity is increasing. This also changes the demand for food. If all these people are going to consume like us and if we continue to produce all that food like today, we're gonna be two to three planets short. Not for nothing has Ban Ki-moon labeled the sustainable production of food as the biggest challenge of our generation, as well as the sustainable generation of energy. I am by nature an optimist: we can handle that challenge. The Netherlands can be at the forefront of this. The Netherlands produces very efficient and therefore relatively sustainable. We are the world's second exporter, thanks to the combination of knowledge-intensive agricultural production, a large innovative food processing industry and a world-renowned logistics. We can be incredibly proud of that. We do this with a unique business model of relatively small-scale companies run by independent entrepreneurs, often families. It's a model to cherish, because it's good for our economy and our local communities. Globally, we are the frontrunner, but in order to be the frontrunner in the field of sustainability, animal welfare and public health in 20 years' time, we need to continue to innovate. This is what I have been working for over the past year, for innovation, for the development of new sources of plant protein, for the promotion of fruit and vegetables, for a healthy future for dairy farming, for pilots for green crop protection, for less antibiotic use, for a new fund for start-ups in agricultural technology and food innovation. As President of the EU Agriculture Council, I launched a debate on the future of the common agricultural policy. I supported the Rosenthal plan for a vital future for pig farming. I started with Young Learning Food, to teach kids about healthy eating and how it's made. At the beginning of this week, Albert Heijn allowed me to scan the first QR code for pork, which gives pig farmers a face for the consumer. That is a nice step in making the food chain more transparent and strengthening the farmer in the same food chain. Last year I summarized this direction with the terms "fairer, better and more natural." There are great opportunities for the Netherlands, which coincide with major societal challenges. That requires taking the lead in change. I have also noticed over the past year that this is not always a welcome message in a difficult market. I realize that. At the same time, no farmer, no gardener, no fisherman has anything to do with politicians just talking to them. The great thing is that the people I've met over the past year, they all realize that. Each and every one of them said: we want to, but we can't do it alone. Over the past year I have met many people, often at their own kitchen table, who do their work with great pride, with passion I'm jealous of, with fantastic ideas, with beautiful farm entrepreneurship. But they also have concerns, about their income and their power relations with supermarkets and the food industry, about the support for pig farming, about the derogation, about the criticism of animal welfare or about the damage to nature, about children who no longer want to take over the business. Despite the opportunities offered by a free market, many struggle with strict social demands and a vulnerable position in the food chain. For many farmers it is a quest for how they can shape their future. The polarized debate in society affects them. The other day I spoke to a pig farmer, who for years at parties would rather not tell what work he was doing, until one day he started making pâté out of his own pigs and served it at festivals. He received compliments and told me that it had changed his life, because he got appreciation and felt proud of his work again, for the first time in years. In Zwolle and in Veghel I stood in front of a full room with dairy farmers who were very worried about a derogation and wondered out loud whether politics, and I, of course, had a future before them in the Netherlands. I've talked to a lot of people for a long time. One after the other told me how the social debate has also affected mutual solidarity and that farmers have become increasingly opposed to each other. In politics, too, the debate can sometimes be polarized. I noticed that myself, even last Tuesday. According to one, I listen too much to the farmers and too little to the nature organisations. The other is that I do too little for the farmers and I leave my ears hanging too much for the environmental clubs. I hope today we can look beyond this division. There are social boundaries and social wishes on the one hand and there are great opportunities for our farmers and our economy on the other. They can coincide. They have to coincide, too. That gives farmers the chance to continue earning a good income. It gives the Netherlands the chance to be a global leader in healthy and sustainable food. We only have one globe, and we must cherish it. We do the same in the Netherlands. I told the Chamber last year that I wanted to strengthen the pride of our own nature. I don't want to protect nature from society, I want to protect it with society. That is why I also focus on the experience of nature and on combining nature protection with other functions, such as agriculture, water management, culture and recreation. With, among other things, the new system for agricultural nature management, the plan of approach meadow birds, the introduction of the new Nature Protection Act and the programme To National Parks of World Class I have been committed to this. The highlight was, as far as I am concerned, the election of the most beautiful nature reserve in the Netherlands, which has once again unleashed energy and plans in the natural world. It also gave me a lot of energy. The day that I was allowed to visit twelve areas in the Netherlands, as well as virtually an area on Saba, was an enormous effort, but it was unforgettable to see how beautiful and varied the Netherlands is. We're able to leave it more beautiful for our kids than we got our hands on it. I'll work four blocks today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u6	I have the impression that you have completed your general introduction, Secretary of State. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand for an interruption on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u7	The introduction did concern me on a number of points. I'll name the two most important ones. I noticed that the Secretary of State spoke about animal welfare only in terms of "we're leading the way," as if that means that animal welfare is actually guaranteed. It just means that other countries are doing even worse. He spoke very cleverly about this debate in terms of polarization. Of course there is a debate on...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u8	May I interrupt you for a moment, Mrs. Ouwehand? You are now taking a general view of what the Secretary of State has said. That is what we have here a so-called second term for. You're standing there to place an interruption. It's short, clear and powerful. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u9	I'm glad you made that clear to me, Mr. President. I've only been here ten years and I've never understood this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u10	I don't care. I would like to point out, especially at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u11	Fine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State the following. Can he agree that there is quite a gap between the animal welfare standards that apply in the Netherlands and the moral views.... or what you want to call those views.... by a large part of the Dutch on this matter? It doesn't help to say that we're ahead if you don't acknowledge that people would want more for animal welfare. Does he find the naming of these differences and the naming of what is going on with the animals in livestock farming polarizing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mrs. Ouwehand is right. I have spoken about social concerns in relation to agriculture and livestock farming. I am going to deal with this in detail in one of my blocks, as I say to the President. Mrs Ouwehand is right that there are social demands for improving animal welfare. I support it; so does Mrs Ouwehand. I have had this debate more often with both her and Mrs Thieme. At the same time, I do not think it makes much sense for the Chamber to consistently denounce and denounce livestock farming in the Netherlands in a way that... Forgive me for using the word, Mr President, but Tuesday I sometimes got the impression from the contribution of both members of the Party for Animals that we are talking about a criminal sector rather than an economic sector. It is a sector of people who simply work hard to earn their living and who have ended up in a system that many themselves say they would like to do differently, but they do have to earn their living. The change you want in that is one step at a time. Mrs Ouwehand and Mrs Thieme have been saying here for ten years that what they call the bio-industry must end tomorrow. The reality is that very many of the entrepreneurs they are talking about have in recent years had an income at or sometimes below the minimum wage level. If you tell those people "you have to change tomorrow and I'm not reaching out to you to help you," that's not a real message. The real message is: yes, society expects change, but we also realize that you are operating in a difficult market in the Netherlands and in a difficult international market. Many of them produce for export. If we want that change, it will have to go step by step. Look at the action plan of pig farming, which has been endorsed by pig farmers, and in which this change is outlined and indicated that they want that change as well. But it is a change that will take several years. It is about setting up a different kind of pig farming, focusing on a different position in the market: not a price fighter position, but a position in which you distinguish yourself on quality, animal welfare and sustainability. That is a change that takes time. It will not help if we continue to have the debate with each other, as I have seen on Tuesday. I don't think that's gonna help. I think it will help if we say: you want that change; how can we support you in this? At least that's what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mrs. Ouwehand, I don't know if it helps, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u14	Yes, Mr. Chairman, you have a heavy burden today at both the Chamber and the Secretary of State. We're both not short and pointy. The Secretary of State finds it polarizing as parties like mine naming the situation with the animals in the bio-industry. He says that doesn't help. What he means is, it doesn't help me. Because it is very convenient for the Secretary of State to pretend that the Party for Animals, but also other parties such as GroenLinks and the SP, are attacking the livestock farmers. We don't. We address the person responsible, and that is the Secretary of State. That's what my question is about. If you know that people have great difficulty burning down pig tails in livestock farming and you see that it's standard practice, then it's up to the Secretary of State to bring that together. The responsibility lies with you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u15	This is another example. It is a conscious simplification of reality. For the most part, Dutch pig farming does not produce for the Dutch market, but for the foreign market. It is regulated on the basis of European rules. This means that Europe sets a number of minimum limits. Mrs Ouwehand knows that the Netherlands is working together with Germany, Sweden and Denmark to strengthen the rules. There's four of us. The Belgians also participate occasionally. There'll be five of us. The Austrians are sympathetic to it. There'll be six of us. We need another twenty-one. That is how the debate in Europe is going when it comes to tightening the lower limit. That market is largely driven by price. This resulted in pig farming in which the animals are close to each other and thus biting off each other's tails. That is why pig farming chooses to couple those tails at a young age. We want to get rid of that. But you're gonna have to change a lot about the system of pig farming before you can actually get rid of it. If you then consistently tell pig farmers that it is animal cruelty, I believe that the Party for Animals used that word on Tuesday constantly, then you put people in a corner, even though they themselves also want to speak a lot of them to a different system, but must have the economic potential to do so. It's not going to happen overnight. That's not because of changing the rules overnight. You have to make sure there are economic opportunities. And I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u16	I know what kind of example I'm gonna give you. Those pig tails are already banned in Europe. We don't talk to farmers, we talk to the Secretary of State. It is and remains animal cruelty to cut off a body part without anesthesia. Everyone will agree on that. The fact that you're doing that because it's more economically advantageous doesn't make that animal cruelty any less. It's up to the Secretary of State to sort this out. It is already banned at European level, and his outline of the fact that it is very difficult to raise European standards does not apply. That pig farmers are stuck, with all due respect: the Party for Animals is in the Chamber for ten years and before that there was 20, 30 years of conservative agricultural policy. See how that makes the sector stand. We have achieved a great deal, but we have not yet managed to determine what is going on in agriculture. The Secretary of State's up to it. It's as simple as that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u17	At the moment when Mrs Ouwehand says 'that change in pig farming would have been quicker', I fully endorse that. I think that goes for a lot of pig farmers too, because they also see how they stand today. It is not for nothing that pig farming itself says: we expect 60% of entrepreneurs to have no future. Of course, that would have prevented everyone from doing so. Perhaps my predecessors could also have contributed to the fact that we were now in a different position. I do it with the situation as it is today. Mrs Ouwehand is right that pig tails are strictly not allowed to be cut, although it is happening all over Europe. I make agreements with pig farming on what is needed in order to abolish it. If you ban it from today to tomorrow, it will lead to more animal suffering within the current farming system than it is today. So, yeah, I wanna get rid of it. Yeah, I want to make arrangements about it. And no, unfortunately, we can't do that from today to tomorrow. It takes more time, because it requires a lot of adjustments to the system of pig farming as it has developed over the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u18	The introduction of the State Secretary is characterized by a story on the one hand. He sketches the image of a polarized discussion of nature versus agriculture and so on. The Secretary of State chooses the middle position in that discussion very conveniently and strategically. Of course, that is best done with this reasoning. But is it? Is the polarization of the debate not precisely the result of the fact that this Secretary of State, like all his predecessors, Mr Delors, is certainly not the only one I am blaming for it, and it is not the only one I am blaming for taking a real position in this debate? As a result, the debate is polarising and solutions are not getting any closer. Mrs Ouwehand has given a number of examples of this. It is right that she did so, and that is why I am asking: where is the dot on the horizon of this Secretary of State? He didn't mention it. He did not mention it in the field of nature and he did not mention it in the field of agriculture. As long as that dot does not appear on the horizon, we have a polarized but untargeted discussion. And that's not gonna help us. Would the Secretary of State care to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u19	Sure. I therefore said in my introduction that the two worlds should come together. The future of agriculture, not only in the Netherlands but worldwide, can only be a sustainable future. The sector will only have a future if nature is taken into account. At the moment when we would not succeed, we simply lack the globe to provide food for all those world dwellers who will be there within one generation. We're gonna have to change. The Netherlands will have to take the lead in this, firstly because we also need to make improvements in the Netherlands in the area of sustainability and secondly because it gives the Netherlands opportunities to lead the way in a change that is and must take place worldwide. Mr Grashoff tells me that I am not taking up a position. It's the first time in a year I've been blamed for that. In general, I get a different reproach. I think it should go that way. I have talked about this a lot over the past year. I said in my introduction that I noticed that it is not always a welcome message. If you say to an economic sector, which is in a difficult market and in a difficult position, that there must be change in order to still be able to take up this strong position in 20 years' time, it is not always welcome, but it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u20	This is starting to go in the direction of an answer. He's very careful, but we might be able to make it a step further. The Secretary of State says that we must change, but at the same time he makes a warm plea for the extraordinary efficiency of Dutch agriculture. Does he agree with me that part of the fundamental problem lies in the overefficiency of Dutch agriculture? However, this overefficiency has led to 85% of our biodiversity being pushed through the well. It is therefore essential that we do not continue on the path of further efficiency gains and their export. The future of Dutch agriculture lies in changing that development towards a nature-inclusive agriculture. Does the Secretary of State simply want to opt for this explicitly, clearly and without detours?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u21	Yes, only Mr Grashoff pretends that that is a contradiction, as if one cannot have a natural-inclusive agriculture that is also efficient. The big challenge for the world is to produce food in an efficient way. And yes, many countries can take an example of the efficiency of Dutch agriculture and the Dutch food industry. At the same time, the loss of biodiversity is too great in the Netherlands and the burden on climate and sustainability is too great. So we will also have to change that in the Netherlands. This is not just a problem; it also offers an opportunity at the moment when you can lead the way and show that in the Netherlands you can produce food in a very efficient way that is in balance with nature, with climate and with energy consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u22	The discussion should focus on this. On this point, I agree with the Secretary of State but very limited. There will have to be a choice of sustainability in the Netherlands. That also means a choice, hard-on, for a little less efficiency on those excesses. It's not about global efficiency. There are still a number of things to be done. The essence is that in the Netherlands we have lost out on the efficiency of our agriculture and that we are causing the problem. That must be mentioned, even though it sounds polarizing. There are choices to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u23	I count my blessings. Mr Grashoff disagreed with me 100% on Tuesday. Now he says he's very limited in his agreement with me. That is certainly a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u24	But then there's Mr. Geurts from the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u25	I listened with interest to the introduction of the Secretary of State. Dinner together, dinner together, because at that kitchen table there are a lot of worries. An example of pig farming has just been mentioned. A lot of pig farmers have stepped into the star concept. At the moment thousands of pigs are refused in that concept every week, because they are too expensive. How's the Secretary of State handling that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u26	The star concept is one of the great examples of how the market, together with civil society organisations, in this case Animal Protection, has taken steps to improve animal welfare. The Animal Protection has announced to enrich the Better Life label with a number of sustainability requirements. That concept is developing. It has given pig farmers the opportunity to give themselves a stronger position. I have always noticed that pig farmers who produce on the basis of the Better Life label only produce for the national market. However, they receive a price that is related to the international market price. That does not make any sense, nor is it easy to explain. I have been in conversation over and over again with, for example, Vion and the customers. This is a domestic product for a domestic market. It would be appropriate for it to be priced internally. We see in the supermarkets that Dutch consumers are willing to pay an additional price for meat that is bred on the basis of the Beter Leven label. As far as I'm concerned, there's gonna have to be plenty of room for it. An interesting question is whether there would not also be an international market for meat produced on the basis of requirements higher than those in the EU. I'm sure of it. We see the first examples of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u27	There are only a few hundred pig farmers in this system and the prices are just dramatic. The Secretary of State just confirmed that in his response. Is it not wiser and is it not the first priority to get the income of that farmer, that pig farmer, that gardener and that fisherman in order before anything happens again in this Chamber? I just heard the Party for Animals literally say: we decide here in the Chamber. You can't do that if you don't get your income straight first, can you? What are you going to ask of this sector in the future? The Secretary of State has only four months left. How's he gonna put any action on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr Geurts is generally following market developments incredibly well, so he knows that the price on the pig market has recovered. That happened first in the summer, then there was a dip and now the price is at a slightly better level than before. That is still not a big deal, but at least there is a bit more perspective. As far as the recovery of income is concerned, if you, as an entrepreneur in a sector, have focused on a single market position for many years, namely to compete as efficiently as possible on price, then you are incredibly vulnerable to exactly what we have seen over the last two years: fluctuations in the international price level. No government anywhere can protect you from that. The best protection you have is to distinguish yourself in that international market. That is just to be prized to Dutch pig farming, to the Producers Organisation for Pigs Farming (POV). He saw that. Under the leadership of former Minister Rosenthal, he has drawn up a plan for the future of pig farming, focusing on a product that is much more distinctive in terms of animal welfare, sustainability and quality. This makes it no longer a price fighter product, but a product that rises above the standard market. I am convinced that this strategy will lead to more income for pig farmers. And yes, after the sector has focused on a different model for years, this also takes time to implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u29	Financial holes in agriculture and horticulture come with an excavator and are closed with a wheelbarrow. That's one. Two. Now I hear this story from the Secretary of State, but there are going to be motions every week. He is going to embrace them and the cost for the farmer and gardener goes up in the Netherlands. When is he gonna stop raising those demands? This sector is no longer able to cope with it at the moment. The people in the highest segment don't even make their money because of the costs they make. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr Geurts is right to point out that public support is an issue for this sector. If you lose that social support slowly but surely, what, I'm afraid, has happened, people are also getting more and more involved from a political point of view in the way you organise your business. I do not need to explain all this to Mr Geurts. So looking forward is also a matter of listening to the environment in which you do your job. If only this had happened in previous Cabinets with regard to this sector. Secondly, looking ahead also means looking at how the market is developing and that you adjust, innovate and come up with new concepts in time. This is what the POV is doing now through the Rosenthal Action Plan. I support that. I also support this financially fairly, as Mr Geurts knows. Many millions, which we have freed ourselves, including within the EU, are being used to support the Rosenthal plan and to ensure that the development of pig farming can take place. That's the future perspective. You can always say here that I could reduce costs or increase subsidies. I have not seen one specific proposal for this in the past year. Nor do I think that Mr Geurts is giving a real perspective, because no one in this Chamber is putting concrete proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u31	We are still at the general introduction of the Secretary of State. Mr. Van Gerven, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u32	The Secretary of State mentioned polarisation and said we should get out of there, but is it polarizing when people in East Brabant come into the rifle against stench from pig farms, when people come into the rifle against the consequences of Q-fever infections, a 2007 drama, 2008, 2009, and when people come into the rifle against the disrespectful keeping of animals for production? Is that what the Secretary of State means by "unwanted polarization"? Is that the cause of the major problems we have in the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u33	No, it's often the tone that makes the music. I have said that I am convinced that change is necessary, if only because of social support. Especially in the east of Brabant, Mr Van Gerven and I know the region quite well.................................................................................................................................................................................................... The concentration of livestock farming is such that the local population indicates that they can no longer bear it. Something has to change. The province of Brabant is taking steps at that point. As an outsider, I see that she wants to eliminate the excessive concentration by, for example, allowing development in other places. But at the same time she is trying to give livestock a place in Brabant. This approach can be expected from both provincial and national directors. We need to look at how we can shape the change that is needed, and why is asked from society, in such a way that there is still a perspective for the entrepreneurs involved. We have spoken a few times about pig farming. The prospect of pig farming is now such that it is expected that 60% of entrepreneurs will no longer be able to continue, because there is no prospect for them anymore. You should avoid getting into that situation at all times. Perhaps that would have been possible if we had thought earlier about what the future should be like. Nevertheless, I do not think it is too late to offer sustainable pig farming a good future, in which quality, animal welfare and sustainability are competed internationally. That's exactly what the Rosenthal plan is about. I realize I forgot to say something to Mr Geurts. Part of that plan is the development of a quality system from within the sector itself. If you ensure the quality yourself, the NVWA can take a step back. The current method of approval can then be changed, which ultimately also leads to lower costs for pig farming. In this way, because of the development of the sector itself, the government can take a step back, giving the entrepreneurs more space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u34	Society is extremely tolerant to the peasantry, especially in East Brabant, the region where I come from. The people there have a lot of trouble to endure. That tolerance is to be praised, because many people are very well aware of the importance of farming for the production of food. But don't point the finger at the people in society with the accusing finger. These people are putting their finger on the sore spot as regards the relationship between health and livestock farming on the one hand and the respect of animals on the other. A lot of people value that very much. We have left the farmers room and the government has taken a step back in recent decades. What happened? From Brussels, 1 billion grants go to farmers every year. Half of them live in poverty. There is enormous overproduction in dairy farming, because we have liberalised it. What is the answer of the Secretary of State to the developments I have outlined?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr Van Gerven said that we should not point the finger at those who sometimes point to animal welfare. Let me give you one example. I spoke very recently with a number of pig farmers who started producing on the basis of the Better Life label. I talked to them about my initiative to ensure more transparency in the chain, so that pig farmers get a face. Consumers are asking for more and more information on the origin of their food. I think it would be good if farmers could show their faces so that consumers and farmers can become more connected. This is also in line with the shorter chains that Mrs Dik-Faber often talks about. They said: we like it and we want it too, but we also find it scary, because colleagues of ours, who have gone before us, who have shown their faces and who have taken a step further to produce according to the Better Life label, are immediately intimidated by animal rights activists. That is what happens to pig farmers who want to take a step further, who want to comply with the Better Life label and who want to show themselves online. That's what they get over them. That is what I mean by polarisation of the social debate: that people who dare to take responsibility are dealing with this type of practice. I find that unacceptable, and I also think that it doesn't help anyone. Pig farmers who want to take such a step should be proud of their work; they should be proud of what they have achieved, of what they have achieved. It would be wonderful if they would show that to the whole country, so that people also have a real picture of how our food is made. I am convinced that we are moving towards a future that is more sustainable, where animal welfare plays a greater role, and we are also taking a realistic view of the economic situation in which many farmers find themselves. I think that helps to ensure that people do not end up in poverty, but that they have perspective and that there are opportunities for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u36	Mr Van Gerven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u37	It is not right that an extreme group may be intimidating to pig farmers. There's no one here in the Lower House for that. I do not think that is a good example. I want to go to a system where there is no contradiction between keeping animals for production in a respectful way and having a decent earning model. The CDA puts the wrong contradiction, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u38	Now you're starting another argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u39	This is not for the benefit of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u40	That's up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u41	That's what the Chamber matters, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u42	The Rules of Procedure state that an interruption must be brief and concise. You're gonna stand here holding all these speeches. You have a second term for that. There's just rules here, and I'm pointing that out to you. That's all I do. I ask you to keep your interruption brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u43	We want a proper debate on this budget. If you don't mind if I finish. The opposition that the CDA places between rules, for example, for keeping animals decent or for preserving nature and so on, on the one hand, and the earning model, on the other hand, is not a right one. We must move towards keeping animals or making use of the land for production in a sustainable way, and that must be linked to a decent income model. Wouldn't that mean that the government shouldn't resign, but rather provide more regulation in order to make that model of income possible? We've seen what happens now if we don't. Then half the farmers live in poverty. That can't be the answer, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u44	I agree with the perspective outlined by Mr Van Gerven, namely that good animal welfare and the earning of a good farmer's sandwich must go hand in hand. We will discuss the livestock sector in detail later in the debate. However, Mr Van Gerven says that this can only be achieved by regulating. By regulating, we set the social boundaries, the social framework conditions. We have discussed here before that we actually want a movement that goes beyond that. There's that movement right now. However, this requires a different role of the government. This requires a government that supports and helps. The government can't do this on its own, that's what entrepreneurs are for, but the government can support and help. The common agricultural policy (CAP) Mr Van Gerven spoke about the large amount of subsidies granted from Europe.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That does not support or does not support enough in that direction. That should be a lot more. I will deal with this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u45	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u46	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u47	You have already had your turn in the general introduction. The Secretary of State continues his speech. He goes through all kinds of things in substance and on that occasion I would like to give you the opportunity to interrupt. The Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u48	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u49	The Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u50	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u51	The Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u52	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u53	The Secretary of State, go ahead! Oh, you want to make a personal statement, Mrs. Ouwehand? You can always ask for the floor. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u54	Yes, and that would have been quicker if you'd done it right away. Thank you! I do not like the fact that at the beginning of this debate the Secretary of State called the Animal Party 'polarizing' because we have literally named what happens to animals in livestock farming. Moreover, in an interrupting debate with the SP, he has just placed intimidation on pig farmers under the same heading of 'polarisation'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u55	What's your personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u56	My personal fact is that the Secretary of State here, with a clever debate trick, sets serious forms of unacceptable behavior against intimidating other citizens under the same heading as he has just accused the Animal Party of. I'd like to give him the opportunity to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u57	That's not a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u58	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u59	This is not a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u60	If Mrs Ouwehand has lived this way: that was by no means the intention. What I mentioned in my introduction is polarisation in the social debate, which sometimes goes far. She goes as far as I've just described. I said in my introduction that there is sometimes polarisation in politics too. Let it be clear that that is another form of polarization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u61	Then I also need a personal fact. If Mrs Ouwehand is justified in this way, then I support her all the more. I was also very touched by this point. I found it very unjust and intricate and I assume that the Secretary of State made a small mistake with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u62	What's your personal fact? You must make a personal statement!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u63	I hope that I have just made my point to Mrs Ouwehand as to what I meant. That seems to me to be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u64	I would like to mention what is contained in the Rules of Procedure. I don't do anything here but guard the order. The President shall decide whether something constitutes a personal fact. If there is no personal point, it is not a personal fact. I am trying to give you all room; I like debate. The Secretary of State has announced that he is still addressing four substantive issues. I give you the opportunity to respond to those points after the Secretary of State first made a comment on them. I think that's the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you, but I'm glad we were able to clear this up. With this example, I did not mention the participants in this debate. I will work with four blocks to deal with the issues and questions raised by your Chamber. Firstly, the Food Agenda, food education, health, export, transparency in the chain, labels and the future of the common agricultural policy. Secondly, entrepreneurship is about supporting knowledge and innovation, top sectors, start-ups, green education, the role of NVWA and the regulatory burden. Thirdly, sustainability, including the future of livestock farming, dairy farming, nature-inclusive agriculture and so on. Fourthly, all the questions that have been asked in the field of nature. I'll start with the Food Agenda. Many Members of your Chamber have commented on this. Last year, the Scientific Council for Government Policy wrote in an opinion to the Cabinet that it was to come up with a food policy, not an isolated approach to agriculture, sustainability, public health and international cooperation, but an integral one. The cabinet has worked hard on this over the past year and has explored opportunities. On Monday the Chamber received the report and an agenda for the future. In my introduction, I said that there are major societal challenges. We will have to produce more food for the next generation and we will have to do so sustainably. We want to live healthy for as long as possible, and for that a different diet is essential. That also calls for a different offer. Dutch knowledge can be used internationally, both in the form of aid and in the form of trade. There are great opportunities for the Netherlands to take the lead in all these developments and the cabinet wants to seize those opportunities. That is why we have a number of ambitions for the next five to ten years, such as product innovation, more food on the market in which vegetables and plant proteins are processed with little salt, sugar and saturated fat, but also innovation in production, to be the most sustainable country in the world in five to ten years' time and to have the lowest possible energy use, as well as low greenhouse gas emissions, the lowest possible use of plant protection products and antibiotics and higher animal welfare. As I said, many farmers also want to go that way and see what opportunities there are for the Netherlands. But they also say: we can't do this alone. The government cannot achieve these ambitions on its own either. We're gonna have to do it together. We need to get our hands together. A lot's been going on. Many parties are already on the move, but it is important to join forces. That is why, together with Minister Schippers, Minister Ploumen and State Secretary Dijksma, I organise the National Food Summit on 26 January, with farmers, gardeners, agricultural technology companies, fishermen, innovative food entrepreneurs, large producers, small and large supermarkets, knowledge institutions and NGOs (non-governmental organisations). We will then discuss the agenda needed to fulfil these ambitions and to retain the leading role of the Netherlands in the international food world. What's everyone's contribution? How do we ensure that the smaller players in the food chain, such as farmers, start-ups and small businesses, are actually given the chance to lead the way? I say to the Members of the Chamber: put this in your agenda, because as tasters in national politics you should not be missing. So you, too, receive an invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u66	A food summit. Great! But the outcome of such a food summit must also be clear. The outcome, the stakes could be that you have transparency throughout the chain, for that farmer but also for all the other small players in the chain. Is the Minister going to take that as a subject at that food summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u67	He's in the Netherlands and there he is just Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u68	I have already noted that Mrs Koşer Kaya is very European. That mistake is often made in this Chamber. That is certainly one of the issues on the agenda. The goal is to come together to a commitment on the direction we are going in. As I said, farmers, gardeners and fishermen cannot make certain movements only if they do not receive compensation from the rest of the chain. We will therefore have to discuss with each other how to strengthen the earning model of the smaller entrepreneurs in order to make this type of innovation possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u69	Again, it is very questioning: "how we are going to strengthen it." No, it should be on the agenda: we want to have clarity at the end of the day about how we are going to make the chain transparent, how we can strengthen the farmer's position and how we can strengthen the consumer's position, for example by providing real information, etc. So I would very much like to see the agenda with the goals linked to the summit. That would be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u70	I told you, this is definitely one of the themes. Recently, I sent a letter to the Chamber about transparency in the chain. It reads what parties are prepared to do about it. They are taking far-reaching steps right now. The pilot I launched last Monday, with QR codes on pork, is called a pilot for a reason. It is a first step in increasing transparency throughout the food chain. I am convinced that we can make very good agreements on this at the food summit. I am never in favour of saying in advance when organising a summit: this is the outcome, so come and have a party. We are going to organise a conversation and hope to commit together to a number of goals and make agreements on how we will achieve those goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u71	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr Geurts suggested in his speech a little that the food agenda would be separate from problems in agriculture. The opposite is the case. Many farmers have become trapped in the food chain. They have to produce at sometimes extremely low prices. In some sectors, exports are still mainly based on the price fighter model. I just said the same thing. In my opinion, the answer is not: more subsidies and less social demands. I understand that that sounds attractive for the short term, but is that a realistic future scenario? In five, ten or twenty years' time, will the Netherlands still be able to cope with price competition with countries where land and labour are cheaper and which are much less densely populated, thus reducing social demands? Will the social debate on the impact of agriculture on rural areas, on the environment, on nature and on our health in the densely populated Netherlands reduce? Or does agriculture benefit from a future perspective based on our strength, in which knowledge and entrepreneurship lead the way in the questions that the world is going to ask with certainty in a number of years' time? The demand for more sustainability, more animal welfare, more health and more quality is not unique for the Netherlands. We are actually seeing the same trends worldwide; in Europe, in the US and in Asia. The ambition of the Food Agenda is precisely to offer perspective on a future with opportunities for all. For farmers, this requires public support for innovation and for exports, and support for their position in the food chain. After all, the market must want to pay for progress. This also requires a balance in the negotiating positions of players in the chain. The combination of our food agenda, a new common agricultural policy and stronger instruments as proposed in Mr Veerman's opinion to the European Commission can support farmers to get their own hands on their own as entrepreneurs. That is why, as I say to Mr Geurts, my reaction to Mr Veerman's report was a little more extensive than the two words he quoted in his speech. Mr Geurts asked me to support the Veerman report in his contribution. In my full reaction, which I think he read since those two words came from it, it said "I support the direction without a doubt" and "We have to go that way." It can't be much clearer. Mr. Veerman has done an incredibly good job. He gives a number of options to give farmers a stronger position within the existing rules. It advises the Commission to review competition rules. I also explicitly supported him in that in the Agriculture Council. And he makes recommendations for the future of the common agricultural policy. I'll come back to that in a minute. So, as far as I am concerned, this is a direction that could be the basis for future policy. In the short term, the Chamber will receive my full appreciation of Mr Veerman's opinion. Then we can discuss this with each other in the AA prior to the next Agriculture and Fisheries Council. The Slovak Presidency is moving towards Council conclusions in the December Council. That is an important consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u73	This is about the general consultation on 6 December, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u74	Is that December 6th? I think it's another date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u75	We'll look it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u76	Could these competition rules, on which we have just received more information, also include the sustainability component, so that we can compete not only on price but also on sustainability?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u77	The Minister and I have, of course, considered this, partly at the request of the Chamber. We have also indicated what scope we can find within the existing competition rules. There will also be a legislative proposal to give sustainability initiatives general scope. We have stretched the interpretation slightly towards the policy rules of the ACM. We also indicated in the letter that we want to talk to the European Commission about the place of sustainability in the competition rules. So that is already the existing agenda of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u78	It's December 7th, we've been looking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u79	I see. As I thought, on 6 December, I certainly can't, so that can't be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u80	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u81	In order to support the ambitions of the Food Agenda, EUR 20 million has been allocated to the EZ budget. This intensification focuses on the main themes of Jong Leren Eten, strengthening transparency in the food chain, supporting societal initiatives and innovation aimed at the goals of the Food Agenda. Several members of the Chamber have asked questions about this. I'm gonna go on Young Learning Eat first. We have a very nice proverb in the Netherlands: young learned is done old. The same goes for food. Anyone who gets acquainted with vegetables at a young age will develop a healthier taste. That is why we have had taste lessons at school for several years and use the EU School Fruit Scheme, which introduces not only fruit but also vegetables into the classroom. With these two regulations we enter about two thirds of schools in the Netherlands. For example, the ministry of VWS works in a large number of schools with the Healthy School programme. In addition, there are numerous initiatives by municipalities, provinces, NGOs, farmers and gardeners and all kinds of others to introduce children to food and how it is made. It seemed better to join forces, to make it easier for schools to make a good selection out of all this offer. We are going to ensure that we reach as many children as possible with food education. We will help parents grow up healthy and teach children what healthy food is, how to prepare it, but also where it comes from and how and by whom it is produced. A win-win: attention to food and attention to farmers, gardeners, cheese makers or peanut butter manufacturers. That's why I developed the Young Learning Food approach together with Secretary of State Van Rijn. Mrs Lodder asked whether this is actually a task for the parents. Of course, parents raise and that's their responsibility, but children spend more time at school during the week than at home. A lot of parents like the fact that the school also contributes to the healthy development of children. That plays in a lot of schools. This morning the children in my daughter's class from a responsible Piet or Sinterklaas didn't get pepper nuts but turnips in the shoe. Many schools ask for healthy treats and a single school has already banned fruit juices. Raising and teaching children about food do parents and schools together. Part of Jong Leren Eating is also explicitly providing insight into the production of food. That's important. Mrs Lodders was disturbed by some of the initiatives she had seen, but the commitment of this programme is to bring schools into contact with farmers and gardeners who like to receive classes, who want to show their businesses. We encourage companies to do so, for example with vouchers. In the programme we are critical of the range of teaching materials. We're trying to separate the chaff from the corn, because it's about kids getting a really good image. Attention for food, learning to enjoy healthy food, respect for how food is made and for the farmer or gardener who does, your life goes with it. That brings me to the end of this food block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u82	The Food Agenda has three more tracks and questions have all been asked about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u83	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u84	If it's okay with a brief interruption on this point. I am very pleased with the explanation given by the Secretary of State and I hope that the Secretary of State will actively look at the NVV's website and distance itself from it in his programmes. If the Secretary of State can promise that, I think it's very valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u85	Our people working on this programme look critically at the programmes that are being offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u86	I note that Mrs Lodder does not regard this as an answer to her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u87	I do not mean to be critical of the programmes offered. I referred to the website of the Dutch Association of Pigs Farming where all these examples are given. It is not so much the teaching programme that is being offered, but I call on the Secretary of State to take a look at those examples that parents suggest to which they are infinitely annoying. I hope the Secretary of State will include that in the programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u88	Yeah, that's what I meant. Within this programme we do not develop new teaching materials, but use the existing ones. A critical examination of the teaching material is carried out. We will take into account the examples put forward by Mrs Lodders and take a critical look at whether we include them in the package offered to schools. The second track of the Food Agenda is transparency in the food chain. I have just spoken about a pilot and business initiatives to increase transparency. I also support them from the Food Agenda. I should like to say a few words about the label. The third track is to support social initiatives. Together with the fruit and vegetable sector, we try to stimulate the consumption of fruit and vegetables. We join forces and support an ambassador in this programme who will work with a team of experts to bring the various campaigns and initiatives together. Another example is Dutch Cuisine, a wonderful initiative to make the Dutch restaurants healthier with another menu composition, in which a Dutch cuisine is developed that serves as an example internationally. That too we support, because that has enormous potential. On the fourth track I would like to go a little bit longer, because a little more questions have been asked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u89	I shall go first to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u90	In what way does the Ministry of EZ interfere with these labels? I assume that these are partly private initiatives, but the Ministry is very involved. I just want to know how far that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u91	I shall speak about this separately in a moment, because Mrs Koşer Kaya has asked questions about it and I have also sent a letter to the Chamber about it. I think it's best if I get back to it separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u92	Are there any questions about the food component so far? I do not want to deny the interruptions to my esteemed colleagues. No? Then let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u93	The fourth track is to focus on innovation, such as developing new products that are composed of more vegetable proteins or more vegetable proteins. This is an example of innovation on the production side. The letter on the Food Agenda says that I have spent 9 million on knowledge and innovation on this issue. The focus is on strengthening the innovative capacity throughout the food chain, improving the start-up climate and a number of spearheads. An example is the agricultural technology that uses big data and ICT. Another example is the development of products based on new plant proteins. Another example is the strategy for green crop protection and the strengthening of pollinators, especially bees. There is also a track to focus on support for start-ups and on new concepts in the food sector. The fifth track is the potato, I say specifically to Mrs Lodders, and with as much enthusiasm as she had. The Netherlands is indeed a global player. Almost all seed potatoes come from the Netherlands; more than 90%. Potatoes are much more nutritious than rice or corn pap. Its cultivation consumes much less water and generates much more per hectare. Especially in circumstances where the cultivation of crops becomes more complicated due to climate change, the potato provides a solution. I myself have seen in African countries the role that this can play in feeding the rapidly growing population there. The Netherlands is world leader in breeding and is also very well able to adapt potatoes to the local situation. I have seen in Kenya and Tanzania that potatoes are sometimes developed for one side of the valley other than for the other, because because of the specific climatic conditions one species grows better on one side than the other. It is unique that the Netherlands can do this. The Netherlands is also one of the top players in the worldwide processing of potatoes, including the processing of fries, as we have seen in beautiful stories in the media this week. I also reserve a specific budget in the Food Agenda to strengthen that position of the Netherlands in the global potato market, because there are many opportunities to take advantage of it. Mr Dijkgraaf pointed out that knowledge development within the Food Agenda is important so that growers and farmers can work for a sustainable future. He has prepared an amendment on this, but if I see it correctly, it has been tabled before he was able to see the content of the food agenda last Monday. He wanted to make EUR 10 million available for innovation, but the Food Agenda has EUR 9 million in innovation money, just for that purpose. Much of this goes through the top sectors, which, in addition to this budget, are already committed to innovation for the benefit of primary sectors. As an example, the programmes Sustainable Soil, Cows & Opportunities and Sustainable Dairy Chain. The Food Agenda should also contribute to maintaining and, where possible, increasing the strong export position of the Netherlands in the longer term. In the September letter I explained my vision of how we can retain and exploit the power of the Dutch agri-food sector in exports for future growth. The questions that Mr Graus asked me about last year have been an important inspiration for this. He asked me to think again about the possibilities of making "made in Holland" more like a quality label. In my opinion, the Netherlands should have exactly that in the future. Three things are of great importance to our exports. First of all... The basis is the unique combination of a highly productive knowledge-driven agricultural sector, a highly innovative food industry and an internationally excellent logistics. We shall have to cherish them. Second. "Made in Holland" will have to stand for unique, high-quality and distinctive products that have been produced sustainably. That is where we want to be the market leader. We will therefore focus on the products that contribute to that image when supporting exports. Third. There are great opportunities for the export of agricultural knowledge and technology. We're going to try to build it further. Mr Graus also asked this year whether we should stop doing Holland branding on the "made in Holland" label. In any case, this is done under the direction of the Foreign Trade Minister. She is working on this Holland branding in general. As mentioned above, we try to focus specifically on food and ornamental farming on high-quality products that distinguish themselves, for example, in sustainability or in innovation. As I said earlier, we are trying to strengthen its production through the Food Agenda. If the producers and exporters have the desire to develop a common quality mark, as the British, for example, have on many of their packagings, then I would like to support it, but at the moment sectors have taken their own initiatives which are in line with the strategy I have described. I refer, for example, to the 'windmill pork' of the pig sector. Mr Grashoff discussed sustainability in detail in this context. I would like to give some encouragement to this in the Food Agenda, for example through the pollination strategy, the use of green plant protection and the use of plant proteins. Think of seaweed, algae and legumes. In addition, I, along with my colleagues, have expressed the ambition to be the undisputed frontrunner in five to ten years' time on the use of renewable energy and on the lowest possible greenhouse gas emissions in food production. The greenhouse horticulture has been agreed on the reduction of CO emissions by 2020 and there is an integral package of measures that can be implemented. The inclusion of land use and forests in the EU's recent legislative proposals will enable agricultural measures, such as carbon capture in soil, to contribute to the reduction of CO emissions and to be taken into account. The Chamber talks with Secretary of State Dijksma about the implementation of the objectives of Paris by agriculture. The Court will shortly receive an analysis from the PBL and the ECN on the impact of the proposals now on the Netherlands in terms of additional efforts and costs required. The Food Agenda addresses the aim of ecological food production and agriculture. Mrs Thieme asked for that. I would also like to support the organic sector by continuing to fulfil its pre-emptive role through the organic label and broadening it with further sustainability requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u94	I thank the Secretary of State for all the actions in this and for Holland branding. I have one more question. I also mentioned this in my contribution. I would rather mention the Austrians than the British. The Austrians also involve the retail sector. Austrian products are prominently presented in the supermarket. This is also important for the marketing of their own products. I would almost say "own products first," but I have to be careful with that. Can the Secretary of State promise that the retail sector will also be involved or that he will intercede in this? That could save a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u95	I just mentioned the example of the British because I thought that Mr Graus would address that. However, he comes with the Austrians; the heart of Europe. What the Austrians are doing is very interesting. They try to profile their products on the basis of a number of sustainability features, such as animal welfare or the non-use of GMOs. The Austrians make a very conscious choice. If you consciously choose to distinguish yourself on those aspects, then you can also put things on the market in that way. That shows. That's exactly the strategy I have in mind. That is why I also wrote in the export letter that we will have to focus on products that distinguish themselves in quality, sustainability and animal welfare. About the retail the following. Sometimes you can already see on products that they are produced in the Netherlands. Knowing retail a little bit, I expect people to use this themselves if they think it has an added value for the market position. I am more concerned with the question of how we can position ourselves as the Netherlands abroad, so how we can position Dutch products there. We must be selective in this respect; we must therefore mainly support products and put them in the window that meet the quality requirements of sustainability and animal welfare that we have in mind. You should not get rid of your brand value by promoting too many products in this way. So I have this strategy in mind, and it can also be seen in the export letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u96	We're almost there, because we're very close now. Let us be quite honest: farmers have, relatively speaking, been given almost no more for their products in recent decades, but the retailer has. It also benefits from all the animal welfare requirements our farmers meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u97	You mean the shops?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u98	Yes, the shops, chairman, if that's what you want. It's a professional term; you can use professional jargon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u99	I'd like the people at home to understand, too. But continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u100	So the shops... The Chamber has already supported my motion on a better price and a better income model for farmers charged to the retail sector. It would help the retail industry if it presented our own farmers' products better, at eye level, so that they would be better taken away. So: own farmers and own products first. That's a very sympathetic thing. Retailers don't do that on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u101	I think that most of the products in the Dutch supermarkets already come from Dutch agriculture, at least the primary products. The Dutch agricultural sector always has a certain reluctance, precisely because we export so much and we do not always like it as much as other European countries insist too much on the labelling of origin, also because it is sometimes used to protect markets. I leave the way in the Netherlands the Dutch products are promoted to the shops and supermarkets. That is really something for them to discuss together with their suppliers, farmers and the food processing industry. I am particularly concerned with the question of how we position ourselves abroad. That is where the biggest economic opportunities lie for the Netherlands. Actually, the supply of Dutch supermarkets by Dutch agriculture in general is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u102	If we produce sustainably, ecologically and biologically, we are the best in the classroom and they will automatically come and get the products from us. So you don't have to say 'the Netherlands first', but that aside. Something about the organic products. I was at work the other day. I saw spots in jars, without soil, but otherwise very organic, so produced without all kinds of means. However, such a thing should not be called "organic." Can the Secretary of State state state whether something can be done about this? How can that be picked up? I'd be very happy about that. By the way, my compliments to the Secretary of State for my food vision from last year came back so beautifully in his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u103	That's not just last year's story, but also this year's story. Mrs Koşer Kaya refers to the European requirements for organic products. There is a constant discussion about this; now, for example, about the new regulation in which some of these requirements come back. So that conversation is really going on there. The biological sector is not always united in this respect. Mrs Koşer Kaya, for example, raised the question of whether a biological product should always be grown in the open or in the ground, or could it be grown by other means? That discussion goes on and on. So I can't say whether it should be one-on-one or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u104	I'm a European. So I think it is great what is happening in Europe, but this is something that should be shown more commitment. I would like to give it to the Secretary of State to make sure that these products, if possible, can also be referred to as 'organic'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u105	I am already pleased if we in Europe are to reach agreement on the new directive anyway. We have worked hard on this during our presidency. The Slovaks are doing the same now. They still hope to be able to conclude this during their Presidency. This sometimes hangs on complex discussions, and now too, such as the question of how much tolerance can be found on organic products when chemicals are found, which the biological sector itself does not use but which have sometimes just come to blow over. This is one of the main discussions within the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Council. The most important thing is that agreement is reached so that the sector is finally clear. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u106	I suggest you complete the food section now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u107	I still have to deal with food waste, the labels and the future of the common agricultural policy. Mrs Dik-Faber asked me about the effect of her food waste motion. She talked about the possible existence of legal barriers. If that's the case, I'd like to take a look at that, of course. In September 2015, the Court was informed that a comprehensive examination was made of the possibility of extending the deadline for uncooled food presentation. In addition, the Netherlands is currently in favour in Europe of extending the European list of products that do not need a "at least sustainable until" date, so that people do not feel that they should throw away products that are still good. I'm talking to the business community to see if a green deal is possible at this point. This is also what we discussed in last year's budget debate, and that is what I set in motion afterwards. European, in the context of the circular economy, is also involved in this area. Despite all efforts, the results in terms of reducing food waste are still disappointing. Mrs Dik-Faber's suggestion to set up a task force to waste food is therefore an interesting one, as far as I am concerned. I will make that suggestion to the Alliance Sustainability Food, which has been working in recent years to reduce food waste, as well as to the University of Wageningen, which is currently launching a major new research project in this field, REFRESH. I thought Mrs Dik-Faber stood up for an interruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u108	Now, if you'll just keep talking, I'll keep an eye on the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u109	I would like to ask the Secretary of State's further ambition. In the previous political year, a motion by D66 and ChristenUnion was adopted asking how the European targets for reducing food waste are translated into the Dutch situation. The Secretary of State has said a lot of nice things, but I still miss the concrete translation. When I hear and see that the reduction of food waste is not yet successful, I think it needs a tooth. Does the Secretary of State wish to be more specific about the translation of European objectives into Dutch policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u110	We also discussed this last year. I think it's nice to set goals. Last year it was about whether we should go beyond the reduction rates set. My predecessor has already expressed a 20% reduction. Now, if you look at the results I've sent to the Chamber, you can see that we're not gonna make it. The possibilities for influencing this reduction are also rather limited. That is why I was somewhat reluctant last year to pin myself on a reduction rate. I could do it if we were asked to do it earlier, but I am committed to setting targets which we know in advance are realistic. I don't want to just call numbers. We have seen how difficult it is to achieve the proposed 20% reduction. The food waste is hardly reduced. I therefore particularly want to focus on how we can tackle food waste and where improvements are possible. On the business side, the necessary initiatives have been taken to steer as little food waste as possible. What is left is increasingly being donated to food banks. It has also been an initiative of the cabinet to bring these parties together. That's what's gonna happen. However, most of the food waste takes place in people's homes. All kinds of information activities are being set up, but we see that this only leads to a very limited change in behaviour. So I think it would be better to look for what we can come up with to further reduce food waste. That is why I think the suggestion of a task force, a few good-looking heads that are going to see what is still possible, is very good. I would therefore like to put that suggestion to the Alliance Sustainability Food and the University of Wageningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u111	I thank the Secretary of State for this commitment. I know the answer secretly, but I will respond very enthusiastically to it. The first part of the State Secretary's speech was about setting new targets. I see the complexity. We should not set targets for setting targets, but I would very much like us to translate the targets set at European level into concrete measures for the Netherlands. Such a task force can generate ideas, but of course I had hoped that the Secretary of State would start talking and make proposals himself. What else can we do to reduce food waste? For example, the quality requirements, which have been completely exceeded, or the two-hour criterion for uncooled products, which apply in the Netherlands, but not in a warm country such as Spain, for example. For example, there are still a lot of things to be pointed out where, with a certain reluctance, we really do not have opportunities. I'd like to see that list from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u112	I'm willing to take up that challenge, and I'll take it up with the Alliance Sustainability Food. We will discuss this. The example given by Mrs Dik-Faber is, of course, based on the protection of public health. We are certainly strict on this in the Netherlands. However, it is always good to take a critical look at this at times. We have done this, for example, with the "at least sustainable until" dates. This explains our commitment in Europe to expanding the list of products that do not require such a date, because there are still products that you can still use well long after the "at least sustainable until" date. Such a date gives people the feeling that they should actually throw away the product. So I am prepared to talk to the Alliance for Sustainability Food, not only about a task force or an ambassador, but also about concrete opportunities that we have not yet identified and that we could work with. I sent a letter to the Chamber a few months ago with the stand down. That's where the numbers were. I also indicated at the time what we are all still doing. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Koşer Kaya has offered me the plan Know what you eat. Thank you very much for that. I read it with great interest. the points in the plan are partly on my territory and partly on that of my colleague from VWS. The plan aims to increase transparency in and across the food chain. I have said before that I very much support that objective. It is also a spearhead of food policy. However, transparency is not an end in itself but a means for consumers to make an informed choice and to increase safety and sustainability in the food chain. It is also a means of giving farmers a stronger position in the food chain, because because many farmers are often an anonymous producer of either food or raw materials for food, they do not have such a strong position vis-à-vis all the major parties that dominate the food chain. Just by making this more insightful, you can lift the farmers out a bit and get a stronger position. I have already informed the Chamber by letter of my commitment to the organisation of labels. That's what they were just asking about. These labels must represent a sustainable production method. Last year it was said here that there is a forest of labels, so one does not know what one can and cannot trust. I briefed the Chamber on this in October. Together with the Alliance Sustainability Food I have asked Environment Central to organise these labels and to indicate which labels really give reliable information to consumers about sustainability. This is also in line with the recommendations made earlier by the ACM. Environment Central has passed through the forest with labels and has put an order in them. It has compiled a top list of labels that score well on various aspects. So the Environment Central actually says to consumers: if you really want to choose sustainable, you have to use one of these labels. Environment Centraal also says to supermarkets: if you want products to really stand out for sustainability, it is good to demand one of these labels from your suppliers. This must therefore help to make food more sustainable. There may be pressure from two sides and both sides, both consumers and supermarkets, will hopefully steer the use of these top marks. I expect that the labels will improve, but also that the total quantity of labels will decrease. Hopefully this will restore confidence in quality marks. The group of the PvdA has asked if I am willing to work with the Animal Protection, the Nature and Environment Foundation and the dairy sector to extend the Better Life label to the current dairy sector and extend only animal welfare to the impact of a product on the environment. The Animal Protection and the Stichting Natuur en Milieu already work together to extend the Better Life label with environmental requirements. This has now been explored for pork, poultry meat, eggs and dairy products. This project was launched under the Sustainable Cattle Implementing Agenda and is partly financed by an EZ grant scheme. This is the UDV grant scheme that was last opened in 2015. So I've already supported that. It is the strength of such a mark that it is a private mark, not a public mark. So I wouldn't want to interfere in that affair. But what the PvdA Group is asking is actually already going on. Finally, I am talking in this block about the future of the common agricultural policy. In the end, food and agricultural policy is to a large extent also determined at European level. During the Dutch Presidency, I argued in favour of working towards a common agricultural and food policy in the reform of the common agricultural policy. So that's a broadening. It is very important for the Netherlands that we remain at the forefront of the discussion that we have sparked. Among other things, the SP has asked for my commitment in that discussion. As I have said, I am thinking of broadening, of an agricultural and food policy that should answer major societal questions about food, climate, natural resources and biodiversity. Initiatives aimed at risk management and strengthening the farmer's position in the chain fit in with this. This could include guarantees on innovative investments and insurance products that could be worked on. In addition, more emphasis should be placed on innovation. An important focus is also to transform current income support into performance-related support, covering sustainability, environmental performance, protection of natural resources, healthy and varied food, biodiversity and climate that are not rewarded through the market. The SP pointed out that farmers would rather have a cost-covering price than a subsidy. That's what I hear a lot. It is precisely for this reason that I believe that the current system of subsidies, which is now largely made up of income subsidies, direct payments, needs to be reformed. I believe that farmers should primarily get their income from the market and that it would be good if the CAP were to be made up of farmers' allowances for the social contribution they make, for example to the climate, to nature and to keeping our landscape green. Mr Veerman's report, which I have just mentioned, also contains quite a lot of recommendations on the future of the common agricultural policy. Those recommendations are in line with my commitment. I hope that the report also inspires other Member States to develop the common agricultural policy in this direction. The discussion started this year. It will hopefully develop further next year, but it will also move quickly towards a future model for the new common agricultural policy. From a formal point of view, the ball lies with the European Commission to take a position on what that policy should look like. Finally, Mr Graus asked whether I could not put the interests of farmers above that of the EU. He has tabled a motion on this subject, but it has been rejected. He said it sharply, but in a way that is, of course, difficult to realize. I also think he is creating an apparent contradiction, because Dutch farmers can only have the position they now have thanks to the EU. The vast majority of what is produced here is exported to other European countries. This can only be done because we have one market and one standard; the same basic regulation. Farmers benefit greatly from European cooperation. And yes, sometimes there are demands from Brussels, but we are always at the table to influence them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u113	That brings you to the end of this first substantive point. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u114	I've got two short points. To return to the latter, I understand that this is the current situation in the European Union. Of course, I'm not stupid either. But the French often say "boys, take a look at it" and then more often actually take part in their own companies and entrepreneurs than the Netherlands does, as the best boy in the class. That's what I was talking about. I assume the Secretary of State will do something about that. Maybe I will put the motion to the vote again and the Chamber will be able to comment on that. Our farmers don't feel the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u115	The French have a very different agriculture in very large parts of their country than the Netherlands. I dare say that Dutch agriculture has developed much more knowledge-intensively on many fronts than in many areas in France. There are also areas that are very similar. The fact that the French have a different agricultural policy than we do has everything to do with local conditions. The French, too, have been kept to the demands and limits of the common agricultural policy. It is striking that the French are also committed to a common agricultural policy that is more focused on social goals such as climate and landscape. It is not so, as is often expected, that there would be a great contradiction. In the end, the devil is always the devil in the details, I have to say from this chairman, so the discussion will continue over the next one or two years. We will see where we come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u116	What is your second question, Mr Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u117	We're not getting out of this, Mr. President, we're not gonna make it. My second point, why I actually walked to the interrupting microphone, concerns the labels. I understand that subsidies go there, even though they are often private labels. EZ certainly interferes with quality marks. I received an answer from the Secretary of State that the national animal certification certificate is also a private mark and that he is not going to interfere. I think that's a little weird. Food is important, but safety and health are also important. We cannot die of Dutch food, but if animals are not treated properly, they may die. Now that the Secretary of State has said all that he has said, I think he should also get involved in those national animal welfare certificates. I will not be able to return to that later, as a written reply has been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u118	Mr Graus says I'm interfering with labels. That is precisely not what I am doing. They are private, especially the Better Life label, which it was just about. This has been initiated by civil society organisations, such as the Animal Protection Agency. Nature & Environment is involved in this. For further development, sustainable livestock farming has been supported by the UDV scheme under the implementation agenda. Moreover, that subsidy scheme no longer exists. The organisation of labels that we have applied is also something that we have put in place at the heart of our work. It's deliberately not a government initiative. We wanted a social organisation to implement this in order to be able to look at these labels independently. It is not the government that says: this label is good and that mark is not good. It is a social organisation that has tested on the basis of criteria which labels say something and which do not. Also for animal welfare, it is really a private initiative. It's not the government's and it's not good for the government to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u119	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u120	Finally. We may be able to get out of it, because I would prefer the Secretary of State to know that the animal welfare agency has a national animal welfare agency, a professional organisation, with real paraveteurinaries on board, who can stabilize animals on the spot. But there isn't, so we have to row with the belts we have. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State for one more thing. Could he consult with officials from his ministry with the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine to ensure that there is a national quality mark set up by professionals? So I'm not asking for a grant. I'm asking for a certain protocol, and I'm asking for those ambulances: 144 to save an animal. That is a national emergency number that has supported the entire Chamber. That's what we all asked for. That's my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u121	What we can do is to put the question put by Mr Graus here, also to the organisations concerned. I can even invite them to a cup of coffee, but we can't take responsibility for what they end up doing. We can bring them together, even if they can, I think, but I can't say anything about the outcome of such a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u122	One more point, Mr President. I didn't ask for a grant. I just asked him if he wanted to ask the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, because he can direct it, to get a proper national label for die-ramp ambulances. It's not that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u123	I can't control a faculty either, because science is ultimately independent. I have already said that I am quite willing to try to bring those parties together if they could not do so on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u124	I have three questions for the Secretary of State. It's nice that the knife is put in the labels, but it's still a problem that you can't see at a glance whether something is sweet, salt or fat, or that it's produced sustainably. Why don't we switch to a color coding and switch on the dual traffic lights system? That's when we're gonna be really good at informing people. My second question concerns the often misleading information you receive. If you have a bottle of child's lemonade, write "child's fruit" on it and put a lot of sugar in it, you can't talk about child's fruit. Or today, in the Metro, there was an example of crackers sold as "populars," while almost half of them contain white flour. That's misleading information. You shouldn't be. My third question is: if you, as a consumer, become sick of a product that is not well produced and in which everything is involved, can you quickly recover your damage? How could that be? Can that be investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u125	I said with great interest...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u126	That's a little smuggling, three questions in one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u127	I can give you one answer to that. I said that I read Mrs Koşer Kaya's report with great interest, but that some of her points really lie in the hands of the VWS Minister. Those are precisely these points, because labelling, for example, is the subject of the VWS Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u128	There will be other subjects on which I will make it difficult for this Secretary of State today. On this point, I will not be complicated, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he would like to pass these questions on to the Minister of VWS for the debate we are having on the WRR report on food, so that we can have that clear and discuss it in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u129	I am, of course, prepared to pass on the stenogram of this meeting to the Minister. The chairman usually does, but I can do it, of course. I will bring that to the attention of my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u130	The Secretary of State made a comment on the common agricultural policy. Yes, I agree with him that we need to move towards a system that provides social service compensation. That thought isn't entirely new. There's a lot of bets on that in a previous round. In fact, the general view was that it failed for 90%. New rounds, new opportunities, but we now know that it is incredibly difficult to get the noses in one direction in Europe in order to fundamentally change that system. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send us a note in which he explains more clearly how he sees it? So far, he has given only a fairly general notion. What does he want to bet on? Does he also want to add a strategic paragraph? How are we going to achieve this in Europe so that it can succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u131	The first question is quite easy to answer, because I sent it in the preparation of the informal Agriculture Council under our Presidency. Then I wrote a note and distributed it to the members of this Chamber. It said how I saw the future of the CAP in front of me. I can also refer Mr Grashoff with some enthusiasm to both the piece written by Mrs Fresco, the President of the University of Wageningen, together with a colleague, and to the piece recently written by the Agricultural Markets Task Force under the direction of Mr Veerman. That's also public information. It can be read that it is actually all in the same direction. The task force's opinion is an opinion to the European Commission and, of course, to the European Council. As I said, I hope it inspires those Member States which may have some different views on the future of the common agricultural policy. As far as strategy is concerned, this is, of course, the issue number one of the discussion within the Agriculture Council. Secondly, the debate on the Multiennial Financial Framework, the Multiannual Financial Framework, will, of course, also discuss the size of the agricultural budget within the EU budget. In my view, it is also relevant how this budget will be used. So that's where the conversation takes place. I do not miss a chance within the European Council and elsewhere to express my views on this. I share this with colleagues, and I also try to speak informally with colleagues. There is no doubt that some Member States have a different view of this, in particular the newer and the Eastern European Member States, which, in their view, come from a disadvantage because they receive lower direct payments. The circumstances there are also different and therefore all of this can be justified, but I also hear from other Member States that they are looking at how they can get a larger share out of that budget. There are therefore different interests and different views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u132	That's absolutely true. But then the question arises as to what a sensible and what a less sensible strategy is. So in the formal setting, you're not gonna win him. Somehow, it will have to do with some form of diplomacy, in which, for example, the newer and the Eastern European Member States actually feel that they are moving along on a car which is something for them, but that they should say goodbye to flat income support. That is exactly my question to the Secretary of State. It is a difficult matter and I have absolutely no ready answer, but I think that must be the strength. I saw it go wrong the last time, despite all the noble words. I found what we have had so far in terms of studies and material very general and if we do not tighten up this strategy and set it in motion, I am afraid we will get a repeat of the previous round.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u133	I would, of course, like to turn the debate in Europe so much into my own hands that I knew what the outcome would be. The strategy that I have pursued, and which I have shared with the Chamber before, is that I have entered the debate very early. One of the reactions of the other Member States was that we only just had the new round of agricultural policy and that I put it back on the agenda as President. Nevertheless, I do not think it was too early. One of my strategic considerations was to start this debate early, because there is a lot of time to think about and perhaps get used to other insights. Secondly, we have also agreed with the successive Presidents on this, because it would be good if this debate continued. In the last Agriculture Council we had another discussion on the future of the common agricultural policy. Thirdly, of course, I was very pleased with the advice of Mr Veerman's task force. That also helps to get the discussion going. Of course, I also discuss this in my informal contacts with colleagues. But that doesn't mean that you always get your way in the end, no matter how smart the diplomatic strategies you put on them. But I believe that the discussion is going in the direction we want, slowly but surely. I also see other Member States moving in that direction. The extent to which this is achieved will have to be demonstrated in the next one and a half to two years. I'm assuming I can't finish that unless there's a very long cabinet formation. I assume that it will be up to my successor to make sure that things work out on this side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mr Grashoff can respond to this very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u135	All this, however, means that I may need more than I already had on such a strategic note on how to deal with this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u136	That's clear to me. I have tried to outline to Mr Grashoff how this process is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u137	I want to talk about the potato, the pager. That is an important issue in this budget debate. I got a complaint from society. I'd like to present it to the Secretary of State. This concerns possible cartel formation of the fries plants in the Netherlands and in North-West Europe. Those factories would claim all seed potatoes that are licensed and suitable for fries. Then these fries would sell these seed potatoes to farmers, who would be obliged to supply the consumer potatoes grown from those seed potatoes to that industry. So they can't sell the harvest to others. So there's actually been talk of some kind of forced shopping nest. According to the Secretary of State, is that correct? And, if so, how does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u138	It is good practice that complaints about cartel formation do not use the postal address of the government, but that of the Authority Consumer & Market. It is the market supervisor. It may examine such allegations and may take action on that basis if it considers it necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u139	Yes, of course I know this can be placed at the ACM. But I'm curious about what the cabinet thinks about this. I am, of course, asking for this mainly because of the discussion about significant market power and the prices that farmers get for their products. That is why I repeat my question. I haven't been able to trace this message so quickly. But what if this is true? Does the Secretary of State consider this to be a desirable development?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u140	This message has reached Mr Van Gerven a lot earlier than I have. If even he has not been able to check the situation, he cannot expect me to be able to respond to such an example on the spot. He started by saying: there may be cartels here. There's only one address where that can be judged. Mr Van Gerven knows what competition policy is like and what practices are not allowed. The ACM checks that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u141	Would the Secretary of State like to ask his own ministry if they have ever heard this complaint? Does he still want to reflect on that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr Van Gerven has information on a case. If he has any questions about such a case, it seems to me best if he simply asks them in the form of written questions. Every Member of Parliament is free to ask such questions. In this way he can provide all the information that is needed and we can then also assess what it is about from the department. During the first period, it has also been mentioned that there are more complaints about the functioning of the market and about the relatively weak position of the farmer in the food chain. In a general sense, I'll recognize it. The farmer is often a small player and the parties he delivers to or from which he takes raw materials are often very large players. As a result, there is a major imbalance in that market. However, it is really up to the ACM to assess how this imbalance is handled and whether it fits within the scope of competition law. If Mr Van Gerven has a case which he believes is not for the ACM but is about policy, then he can always ask written questions about it. I'll answer that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u143	I will not go into the pager, because of course I am very pleased with the Secretary of State's commitment. I have another question about the labels. I fully understand the position of the Secretary of State, because I share that: a quality mark is something of society, of different parties. But I just heard the Secretary of State say that he does not miss a chance to argue a number of things in Brussels. Can I then ask the Secretary of State not to miss out on the issue of labels, either, in order to argue that sustainability should be looked at more widely? I'm referring to a broadcast of The Monitor more than a week and a half ago about the free-ranges. I recently visited a pig farming company that is not allowed to participate in the Better Life label, while meeting all kinds of sustainability criteria. Does the Secretary of State also wish to raise these issues in the context of transparency? Does he want to argue that sustainability goes far beyond just a number of societal wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u144	If I understand Mrs Lodder correctly, this is in fact a complaint from someone who says: I meet all the requirements, but I do not get the label. Is that what she means? It is obvious, of course, that parties who issue a label simply test everyone who thinks they are eligible, and that if someone meets the criteria, they can use that label. That's what labels are for. They are not intended to protect a part of the market and to say: only these parties are allowed to participate and other companies are not eligible. The content is, of course, always leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u145	It's not a complaint, because I wouldn't put it here, but where he belongs. We have just heard an example of this. I am concerned that in a stable system which is sustainable in a number of aspects but which then emits ten times more fine dust, you can honestly ask the question whether that is sustainable. It is a situation in which someone has more animals in a stable in the context of investment and thus meets all kinds of social needs, but that a club looks at them one-sidedly and says: then you go over the maximum number of animals. I am not asking for interference in this consideration, but I am asking for transparent information to be shared. I ask the Secretary of State not to miss a chance to argue the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u146	Typical of a label is of course that you have to meet a number of requirements. At the Better Life label, one of the most essential criteria is the amount of space an animal has, so how many animals are on a square meter. I'm not surprised you can't use that label if you don't meet it. I am not talking about being the hallmark of a private party, but I am not surprised, because that is exactly what the label is about. Mrs Lodder rightly points out that there is sometimes a tension between animal welfare and sustainability. She says that it can sometimes be attractive to keep animals all in from a sustainability point of view, because then you can capture all the harmful substances well, but that we often do not consider them desirable from a social point of view, from an animal welfare point of view. This means that we need to look for ways in which we can cope with the sustainability damage caused when someone invests in more animal welfare. One of the talks I have with the poultry farmers is also about the spreading of fine dust. The poultry farmers say that this also has to do with the fact that we are giving the animals more space and that we are making greater use of free movement. That is true, but at the same time you need to see how you can cope with it and do something about it without taking steps back in the field of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u147	Finally, Mrs Lodders, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u148	I think it's en-en. You can look at the poultry sector on the one hand, or at the other sectors it may concern. On the other hand, it is about fair external redress, because if consumers were to be able to balance on the basis of all the information, they might make a different choice and not allow the social debate to be influenced in this way. So I think it's en-en. I call on the Secretary of State to do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u149	Forgive me, but I'm not quite clear what Mrs. Lodder is asking of me. Yes, I see the tension that sometimes exists between sustainability and animal welfare. There are labels and certainly the Better Life Trust has a number of criteria in the area of animal life, for example the space that animals have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u150	If you do not fully understand each other, perhaps it would be useful if Mrs Lodder were to return to it briefly in the second term. Or would you like to say one more word about this, Mrs Lodders? But short and clear, if you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u151	The Secretary of State explains the labels, but it is also about bringing out the fair and transparent story. If I get the same answer, I'll be happy to return to it in second term. Otherwise, I will ask written questions about this, including in connection with the broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u152	I always think it is important that, as Mrs Lodder calls it, the fair story is told and that there is transparency about how it is produced and what its consequences are. It is not for nothing that we want to broaden the Better Life label and also tighten the sustainability requirements. This is precisely because it is not just about the living conditions of the animals, but also because of the fact that there is not always a profit on the sustainability side. They want the label to stand not only for animal welfare but also for sustainability. I feel that the issues raised by Mrs Lodders are already being picked up by the organisation. But if there are any more questions, we will certainly come back to them in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks may be able to shed light in the darkness with his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u154	Well, who knows? I feel that the Secretary of State is too much involved in the totally false contradiction between animal welfare and sustainability. The only thing that matters is whether there are simply not too many animals. Shouldn't you look at the number of animals you can handle with your land, your land, your landscape and your emissions? Is it an animal's fault that there's particulate matter? Or is that a mistake of our people, because we want far too many animals on a much too small surface? The solution proposed by Mrs Lodders is: make it a dense box and then we will be rid of the sustainability problem. That is not true at all, because that is not an integral sustainability approach. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that an integrated sustainability approach can be very similar to improving animal welfare and that you need to find the solution within the whole cycle, rather than in one isolated aspect such as particulate matter emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u155	I agree that it can go hand in hand, but it is not so that the tension that Mrs Lodder describes is not there. Of course, if you keep animals inside, you capture all the substances that are harmful to the environment. When they go out, you can't do that anymore, so you have another question, namely: how do you improve your animal welfare while at the same time not reducing your sustainability? I think that is a very understandable question. It is not an apparent contradiction, as Mr Grashoff suggests. It is a real tension, but you must not refrain from investing in more animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u156	We're going to see Mrs. Ouwehand. Or did you have another point, Mr Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u157	I just have an interruption in two installments, don't I? I wasn't ready for the second one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u158	It doesn't necessarily have to be. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u159	No, but I thought it was relevant enough to this. The crux in the discussion about the future of livestock farming is: are you going to continue looking for solutions in the direction of air scrubbers, closed boxes and so on, or are you going to nature-inclusive agriculture and to closing the cycle? You may call that a polarized discussion, but it is a very hard and very important discussion. The false solution to think that sustainability can be solved through further industrialisation of the livestock farming concept is a dead end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u160	We will be discussing nature-intensive agriculture in the near future. I have already said that agriculture is sustainable and in balance with nature, as far as I am concerned, the only possible future. At the same time, improving animal welfare means that you also have to deal with sustainability questions other than the ones you first had. You don't have to close your eyes because they're here. When a pig is in the stable, all ammonia is captured. If he comes out, it won't happen again, so you'll have more ammonia emissions. And so we have a new question on our plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u161	The Secretary of State says that ammonia is captured when pigs are in the stable, but that is done with the help of air scrubbers, which again consume a lot of energy. If you pull that sustainability burden off again, you won't get anywhere on balance. Isn't this right that you're not actually taking steps when you're trying to do something at the edges of this system for animal welfare or for sustainability? It is therefore important to ensure that cross-compliance is well-established and that animal welfare is a prerequisite; sustainability is a prerequisite for sustainability and then to consider how much space there is for livestock farming. If that becomes clear, we can all talk about the intermediate steps that need to be taken and the pace that we can make, but then we know where we are going. Wouldn't it help to tell everyone who works in the sector and everyone who is concerned about animal welfare and sustainability where we are going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u162	The most important thing is that the direction is clear. I believe that the direction we have taken in recent years is irreversible. Society won't accept it if we go back. The consumer will not accept that. The direction is irreversible. It is based on more animal welfare and more sustainability. What you then come out of is, of course, something that develops gradually. The views on this change. When Mrs Ouwehand's party entered the Chamber ten years ago, the views were different from those of today. It has undoubtedly contributed to this. Those views change over time. So I don't think there is a clear endgame, but the movement that has been deployed and which is also shared in society is going incredibly fast at the moment. Think of the significant increase in sales of products produced to consumers in a sustainable way and with respect for animal welfare. This also means that everyone who works in this sector knows what direction to take. I do not dare to predict at this time how far this movement will go and what demands we will ultimately make as a society in twenty years' time. I think you're talking about a transition that's really gonna cover a long time. I daresay it will go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u163	The difference is that the Secretary of State stays on the line where a lot of things happen, but little changes, while the Party for Animals asks for clarity about where it is going. The citizens' initiative, which was the first citizens' initiative to be dealt with here in the Chamber ten years ago, had all these conditions already taken into account: the environment, sustainability, animal welfare, food security. This means that the Dutch livestock must shrink by 50%. It was based on good scientific research. That's the kind of statement the Secretary of State should make. He has to say, "That's where we're going." Then we make it work for everyone, the farmer deserves a good living, there is quality production, we guarantee animal welfare and we serve sustainability. Such a benchmark must be established.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u164	This is a bit of what I meant earlier: it is only good enough when you say that the Dutch livestock sector needs to be halved. I don't think that's gonna help the development we're in the middle of. I do not believe that this will help in the discussion with livestock farming and the sectors. You can see it goes one step at a time. Take developments in chicken meat and pork. At present, the biggest supermarkets have almost nothing but pork products that meet the requirements to get one star on the basis of the Better Life label. Steps have also been taken with regard to chicken meat. In that sector this step has not been taken, but the step towards a race that grows slower than the breed that used to be, which you always call "plofkip." Thus, steps have been taken both in the case of pork and chicken meat. In both cases the meat has become slightly more expensive, but that step has apparently not been so great for consumers that they have emigrated to other shops and bought their meat elsewhere. I believe that this is the way to develop, in steps taken by the consumer as well. If you take very big steps at once, you also create space in the Dutch market for parties that say: we do not participate; we buy meat abroad and bring it to the Dutch market. That's exactly the risk you're facing. You have to let it go in the right direction step by step. I think that is exactly what is happening on the domestic market. Another aspect is that we also produce a lot for the foreign market. The Netherlands is not unique, is not an island in the world and is not the only country that talks about animal welfare and sustainability. This is happening in Germany, in Denmark, almost everywhere in Europe. It is also a great movement in the US. Even in Asian countries you will find it, countries where it was not previously an issue as with us. This trend is international and does not stop. This means that you also need to ensure your exports that you have a market for concepts that meet more animal welfare and more sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u165	It's not that I want to keep you from the discussion, Mrs Ouwehand, but you're not gonna get together. We both know that, don't we? Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u166	The Christian Union strongly supports animal welfare and sustainability. That is why it is good to see that Dutch livestock farming is the world leader in this. The Secretary of State said we're going step by step on the road. I'm kind of wondering who "we" is in that story. When I heard the word "we" a number of times, I wondered whether that was the government, the consumer or the livestock sector. Who's gonna take the lead in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u167	"We" state that this is also my belief about the role of the government for "jointly": livestock farming, but also the food processing industry and supermarkets. Those parties make a very important mark. Look what the supermarkets have done in the areas of pork and chicken meat. In that area, really, relatively large steps have been taken when you see where we come from. Do they go far enough? As far as I am concerned, the answer to that question is no. I think it's gonna go on pretty well. I myself think it's okay if it goes on. Taking that step has already had quite a lot of ground, both in the poultry sector and in the pig sector. A group of 150 pig farmers delivers to Albert Heijn. That is only a very small group if you look at the total pig farming in the Netherlands. If you want these kinds of movements to endure, you will have to make arrangements together and together you will have to put the dot on the horizon a little further. That is exactly what we do together. The private sector takes responsibility for this. It is farmers who change, it is supermarkets who agree to take it down, and it is the government that tries to support it with or with innovation subsidies or broadening competition rules, as we have done, or other forms of support, sometimes also financially. Look at what we're doing in pig farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u168	Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u169	My group believes it is very important that a fair wage model is opposed to a step forward in terms of sustainability and animal welfare. If we impose rules from the government that companies have to comply with, this means that we are increasing costs in, as the Secretary of State has just said, an open market. There is a European market and there is a world market. This puts our farmers and gardeners at a disadvantage. It is fine if steps are taken, but put them first with the sector. Make sure that there are real earning models underneath and that we do not put our farmers at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u170	This is about the same as what I just said. I very much agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. Eventually, entrepreneurs should not only be able to experience it, but also be able to take the lead in these changes. They can only do that if there is also a market for it. In the Netherlands, we can make agreements on this with the domestic parties. That is why we invited all these parties to the Food Summit, including to make agreements on how we proceed. Externally, it is about trying to market these kinds of developments there, allowing us to sell products in countries to which we are now exporting a different concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u171	Good. I suggest we move on to the next topic. I ask both the Secretary of State and the Chamber to say exactly what they want, but a little more compact, from all sides. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u172	Let's try that. The next block is about entrepreneurship, because farmers, gardeners, fishermen and food producers are all entrepreneurs who want to take advantage of opportunities under social conditions. In these sectors too, knowledge, technology and innovation are keys to future success. This is often a major challenge for small entrepreneurs such as many farmers, gardeners and fishermen. It is often not easy for small businesses to adapt to stricter social demands. As I said, the key to success in the future lies in knowledge and innovation, and that is exactly what the Netherlands has become big with. Mrs Lodders spoke about opportunities for precision agriculture in the Netherlands, and Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about opportunities for innovation in fisheries. As far as I am concerned, they hit the nail on the head: that is where the future lies. It is very important to establish a link between the traditional agri-domain and a domain such as high-tech and ICT. That is where the innovation will have to come from in part. The agri-food sector will have to look beyond its own borders, where there are great opportunities. That's why a platform has been set up between different top sectors and different universities to bring those worlds together, the High Tech to Feed the World. There's a lot more to that. Precision agriculture uses big data, data from ICT. There are many opportunities and we are committed to that. Renewal also often comes from start-ups. In a leading country like the Netherlands, you would expect us to know many start-ups in agricultural technology and in food innovation. However, if you compare it internationally and see how much start-up funding is put down, the Netherlands is left behind. Start-up funding is mainly found in other countries. That is why I took the initiative for a seed capital fund, a fund that can help start-ups in the early stages. Accelerators, accelerators, organisations that are going to help start-ups develop also follow. I am convinced that more dynamism is needed, including in this world. Dynamics is also due to meeting of different parties. That's why we combine activities of DLO and TNO at the new Dutch Food Institute in Wageningen. Unilever R&D will also settle on the campus in Wageningen. This is increasingly the place where different players will meet, a place that can become the incubator for developments in Dutch agriculture and food production. They'll benefit from that. The Netherlands is internationally known for its high level of knowledge and its great innovation and that is precisely the appeal of Dutch products and companies. Mrs Lodders rightly said that it is not just about knowledge and innovation. Businesses can also be hampered by regulatory pressure from the government. That is and remains a focus of this cabinet and therefore mine. Ms Lodders mentioned the tailor-made approach to agrocluster and noted that entrepreneurs lack a direct input to report their complaints about regulation. She asked for a special point of contact to be opened. We have good experiences with the customisation process and that is why I started a new inventory round in the autumn. In this context, a window has already been opened where entrepreneurs can report their bottlenecks as a result of regulatory pressure. People can e-mail that and send the things they encounter. This window is supported by the various sector organisations in the agro-food sector. Mrs Lodders said: make a beautiful website where you can go to sign up. I think that is a good suggestion, because that makes the window much easier to find. We're gonna pick that up. I will also take the fisheries sector into account and see whether the current approach is sufficiently in line with the approach put forward by Mrs Lodders. After the inventory round that is now taking place, which I hope I will give a boost with a new website, an analysis of bottlenecks and solutions will take place together with the business community. Then we will come up with a plan of action to clean up or adapt obstacles to rules that have come on the retina. Mrs Lodder's last question on the regulatory burden was about precision farming. Last year she asked me to identify the obstacles to this and, where necessary, to remove them. That exploration is still taking place and has not yet been completed. I am expected to discuss the results with the sector in January, and then come up with a plan of action. I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible afterwards about the findings and the execution of the motion. As I said, I share Mrs Lodder's view on the great importance of precision agriculture for the future of agriculture in the Netherlands. I've been able to see that in several places and I'm very excited about that. I have been on a self-driving tractor myself, because with that they are already a bit further than at the cars on the road. In this block I will also discuss the role of supervision, the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u173	I see that Mrs Dik-Faber has a short question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u174	I understand the hint to keep it short. My question to the Secretary of State is to what extent the innovation initiatives that have now been launched really end up on the farmyard and on the cutter. I can see that a lot is happening in the top sectors and innovation policy, but it is not really landing on the farmyard yet. I've made some suggestions about it. There's an amendment. I am considering tabling an amendment for the fisheries sector. Apart from the assessment of these amendments, I would like to know to what extent fishermen and farmers really benefit from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u175	I don't share the observation that it doesn't end up there. I was just saying what I experienced myself in agriculture and precision farming. Tractors often drive independently over the field nowadays, just like other machines. You still have to sit on it, but they can basically drive themselves. They can drive very precisely and sow, spray, water, fertilize, etc. on the basis of GPS crops. If you see what the technology is already capable of, it has already landed on the farmyard, as Mrs Dik-Faber says. Much more can be done, for example through the use of data and ICT applications. That is not for nothing one of the tracks I finance with the food agenda budget. I think there are a lot of future opportunities there. We are also developing plant proteins, which must be grown by farmers. There is a market for it when you develop new products. I think there are great opportunities there. This innovation ultimately benefits the primary sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u176	That's the idea. I was at work in the fisheries sector the other day. I've also been to that beautiful boat MDV1 Immanuel. As in agriculture, you can see that all of them are hardworking people on their own farms. It's all very small pieces that together provide our food supply. I see, however, that it is complicated to develop the power of action in the sector itself in order to achieve innovation from the bottom up, because they are all individual companies. That is why I am concerned about whether everything that we develop with the top sectors policy is going to end up with all these individual entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u177	I know the ship Mrs Dik-Faber calls. It is not only beautiful because it is very modern, but also because there is much less fuel consumed when fishing. As a result, costs are significantly reduced. It is much more sustainable, but it also helps the fishermen who invest in such a ship. I was at the fishing fair on Urk a month and a half ago, and there you saw that ships inspired by MDV are standard in the offer that shipbuilders present at that fair. Such ships have a much lower fuel consumption, so that the earning model gets much better. As with all innovations, entrepreneurs ultimately decide to invest in them themselves. It is not the government that buys ships; that is obvious. It is the entrepreneurs themselves who do that. Both banks and industry representatives said that there is now plenty of room to invest. There is a willingness to finance, there are plenty of opportunities and the ships are helped by the state subsidies for the development of the MDV. That's actually how it works. The government helps to create and develop innovation that is still remote from the market. At the moment it is on the market, it is up to the market to make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u178	The Secretary of State continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u179	A few questions have been asked about the Dutch Food and Service Authority (NVWA) and the supervision. Cross-compliance and rules can contribute to the positioning of quality products abroad, provided that they are properly maintained. Over the past year we have spoken a number of times about the NVWA. I believe that we will have a general discussion on this again in January. In this we are talking about the whole transition, which is what I call it, from the NVWA to a new kind of supervisor. I think I can call it that. It will monitor much more on the basis of knowledge and work far more risk-oriented. We shall discuss this with each other during that consultation. Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP asked about the transfer of inspection costs to the agricultural sector. He came up with the example of a poultry slaughter. He said she had to pay €300,000 a year for a supervisor. If a slaughterhouse slaughters all year round every full working day, then it may be true that the total cost is about that much. European legislation requires the permanent presence of a veterinarian at the slaughterhouse to monitor the food safety of meat. This form of supervision is uniform throughout Europe and based on European legislation. This ensures the food safety of meat in the Netherlands and in Europe in an equal way. As a result, companies can also market poultry meat in Europe and export to third countries. Like all rates of NVWA, this rate is also based on the integral cost. This means that costs related to inspection and supervision are included in the rate. This involves all kinds of costs such as driving costs, costs for preparatory and support activities, for day-to-day planning, for supervisory development, business management, internal guidance or for technical administration. Those costs are all included in that fare. That's also what PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) investigated. The Court received the results of that investigation. In fact, two things have been looked at. It has been considered whether it is true that the rates are based on actual costs. It is clear that this is true. An international comparison has also been made. It has often been said here that the Dutch regulator's rates are much higher than those of the regulators in other countries. That's what happens when you make a comparison with the neighbouring countries. A good comparison was possible with Belgium and Denmark and it showed that the opposite was the case. The costs of supervision are, in most respects, lower in the Netherlands than in those countries, except for a single component, and I am talking to the business community about this. PwC also said that the competitiveness of Dutch industry should play a stronger role if it is determined which costs are and will not be passed on. That conversation will be held. Mrs Lodders of the VVD has asked whether it is not possible to outsource NVWA's tasks, for example to laboratories, such as the NAK. Previously, it has been considered which tasks belong in the public domain and which tasks can be carried out in the private domain. It has been very consciously said that the laboratory tasks referred to by Mrs Lodder belong in the public domain and thus in the NVWA. In 2013, it was found that the NVWA authority needs to be strengthened, precisely by bringing certain elements of the oversight, such as the KDS, back into the public domain. The preparations for this have been initiated. We've talked about that before. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked a question that she has often asked: is food safety in good hands at NVWA? Food safety is the responsibility of the US Secretary of State. However, as I have said before, food safety is primarily the responsibility of the industry that produces the food. Businesses must ensure that food is safe. The NVWA ensures compliance with legislation, but it is not always everywhere. However, the supervisory role must be so strong that it is clear to everyone that food safety is not something you can rely on; you can count on severe penalties and the chances of getting caught are great. In this way, the NVWA tries to organise supervision. Therefore, the NVWA tries to focus supervision on the right places, namely those where the risks are the greatest. Ms Koşer Kaya also asked whether the NVWA is financially sound again and whether it is carrying out all the supervisory tasks again. In May, I informed the Chamber about this. In recent years, a imbalance had arisen between the tasks of the NVWA on the one hand and the available budget on the other. I also had external investigations carried out, as announced last year in the budget debate. In spring, I announced that I will make available an additional EUR 23 million annually in structural terms to ensure that the NVWA is financially sound and future-proof. This has achieved a sustainable balance between the tasks and the available budget. With the extra budget there is also room to absorb the transition costs for the re-examined plan of approach. That revised plan will be given to the Chamber this year, so at least before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u180	I would like to return to the PwC report to which the Secretary of State also referred. It states that in the Netherlands the average costs of monitoring primary production and transport are highest. In an opinion requested by the Chamber, the Council of State states that "costs not directly related to activities should not be charged in the Section's view." The PwC report does not distinguish between direct and indirect costs. The Council of State advises you to do so. I just heard the Secretary of State say that supervisory development is part of the direct cost list, but that's not true. The Council of State also says that: supervisory development is not part of the direct costs. How can the Secretary of State say that the rates will be met if the PwC report and the Council of State do not confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u181	These are two very different contributions to this debate. The Chamber itself asked the Council of State for advice and information. The Council of State concludes on the NVWA that it is not really possible to properly assess whether the costs that are passed on are correct. The Council of State has, however, made a number of general comments. These are relevant not only for the passing on of the costs of the NVWA, but for the whole government. I have informed the Chamber that the interdepartmental working group will study this and will advise the Cabinet whether the opinion of the Council of State should lead to policy adjustment. I believe that at the moment, on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State as we can now assess it, there should be no policy adjustment. For that we really need the advice of the interdepartmental working group. PwC has checked whether the cost transfer is in order in accordance with existing policies and compared the rates internationally. First, the integral cost includes supporting costs necessary for monitoring, including supervisory development. That is what you need to be able to monitor not only today, but also in six months or a year. After all, the market is changing and so supervision sometimes has to change. PwC concluded that that cost methodology is the correct one and that the good costs are passed on. Secondly, there is the international comparison. Mr Geurts quoted the report. So he has the whole report and can see exactly what PwC has said about it. In fact, PwC has indicated that in most areas the total supervisory costs charged by the NVWA in the Netherlands are often lower compared to the neighbouring countries that can be compared with us, i.e. Belgium and Denmark, but that, for example, they are higher than in France. France is giving this a different form. PwC also said that no good comparison can be made with Germany, as different costs are passed on at all levels. When I look at everything in this way, I think that the Netherlands in general is not out of line; on the contrary, we are doing this in a proper way. PwC illuminates one aspect. It states that specific import and export rates are higher than in neighbouring countries and that the methodology does not take into account the competitive position of industry. In my letter to the Chamber, I indicated that I think I should look at that. So I will discuss this with industry, for example, what this should mean for the further development of tariffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u182	That was such a comprehensive answer, Mr. Geurts, that you can only be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u183	Well, Mr. President, that's not Mr. Geurts, because the Secretary of State's reasoning is no good. When I say that the Council of State indicates that development costs are not direct costs and the Secretary of State says that they are direct costs, you can already see the discussion. Anyway, we'll prosecute him at another time. That point of the average is also nice. If you shoot a hare in front of his head and behind his body, he's on average dead, but in practice he runs on. But aside from that... PwC further states in its report that the Dutch competitive position is not taken into account. The CDA believes that it is necessary to quickly assess which costs will be passed on. I heard the Secretary of State say he set up some interdepartmental policy group. When's he gonna answer? In five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u184	No, the Chamber has already received this; all this is in the letter with which we responded. This interdepartmental working group will need a number of months to be able to study this properly and to come up with an opinion on it. In my view, it should be possible in time for the new cabinet to take steps, if there is any reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u185	I heard a promise: in time for a new cabinet. That means before 15 March. Is this already available on 1 March 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u186	No, I said this is gonna take a few months. I just can't. This really requires a good study, because it has great consequences for supervision and the passing on of costs throughout the state. Mr Geurts had requested this information, so I understand him well if he says he wants something to change immediately. The first question is whether something should change. The Council of State is not at all as clear about the NVWA as Mr Geurts just described. In fact, the Council of State says that it cannot properly assess this with regard to NVWA. It is precisely because of the great consequences that the opinion may have for the passing on of costs for the whole government that it is really necessary to study this very carefully, to look very closely at whether there is a need for adjustment and, if so, what its consequences would be. That really takes a couple of months. So at the earliest it will be a little later in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u187	I'd like to be more specific, Secretary of State. I always ask for that in the case of commitments. So not before March 15th?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u188	It's in the letter I sent. Not until March 15th. This just needs to be properly studied. The election date is not leading. The working group should be able to study this very carefully and should be able to deliver a good opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u189	I was just asking neutrally for a date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u190	Let's get back to food safety. Do I understand the Secretary of State correctly? Is he saying that food safety control is so well designed and organised that it does not come into question? If that's the case, the Secretary of State's answer seems pretty simple to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u191	Although we still organise supervision so well, there are always companies that do not take it closely enough with the regulations. Mrs Koşer Kaya knows that things sometimes go wrong at companies. There is sometimes a scandal in the field of food safety. Sometimes, for example, there's an infection. At the time of such detection, the product is withdrawn directly from the market. That is why I stress every time that food safety is a business responsibility. Monitoring aims to minimise the risk of fraud and to maximise the risk of detection of food safety problems. It is precisely in order to get even better, that we are in the midst of the change of NVWA. Mrs Koşer Kaya knows the whole process of reorganisation and change. That is precisely what is intended to strengthen supervision, to increase the chance of being caught when one is messing around and also to increase the chance of it being discovered if something is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u192	That the companies are primarily responsible, I understand, but we have a NVWA to oversee safety for a reason. After all, once things go wrong, things go wrong. Precisely because the NVWA is in the middle of a reorganisation, I am very concerned about that. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State whether the NVWA is so organized, even during the reorganisation, that food safety is not at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u193	I think we've talked about this three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u194	We are not going to repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u195	I would like to say once again that food safety is the primary responsibility of the US Secretary of State. That is the Minister with whom Mrs Koşer Kaya should be holding the debate. However, as has been said many times, even to Mrs Koşer Kaya, the NVWA continues to function despite all the changes. The NVWA is in the middle of a change process, but she just supervises it, as she always does. This monitoring should be further improved over the coming years. It's got to get even better than it is today. That's the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u196	I would like to respond to the Secretary of State's remark that the sector is primarily responsible for itself. Of course, I share that with the Secretary of State, but in practice this often does not happen. Since the Secretary of State is also a shepherd of the animals, I ask him, together with his colleagues in the Justice Department, to deal with the Public Prosecutor once. The D.A.'s gonna let things go. Then I'm not just talking about the case of the pony crushes and other cases, but also about the cases that the D.A. has messed up, like the case of the dog trade in the south. I believe that the Secretary of State should pay more attention to this. We always talk about our food, but a lot of that food is formed by animals, by living beings of intrinsic value. I would like to see the Secretary of State, like Ben Weyts, who is really doing well in Belgium, go into the books as the Secretary of State for Animal Welfare. He's got a few months before that. Everyone agrees that we should be good for our farmers, growers and fishermen, but we should not just talk about food. It's often animals, too. It doesn't bother me at all. Not because I don't eat animals myself. Those who do should know that, but when I drive along a transport of animals, I'm always glad I'm not guilty of it. The D.A. needs to take these cases a little more seriously. That is why the Socialist Party and more parties, including the PVV, have more often asked for animal prosecutors. That's the point. I have a lot of confidence in NVWA and I am very positive about him in Mr Paul too, but the bastards are not being dealt with. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u197	Where the NVWA has a responsibility and can also take it up, it does so as best as possible, especially in order to deal with the bastards mentioned by Mr Graus. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the NVWA's commitment to the trade in dogs. Mr Graus also spoke about the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor. In any major debate on the budget or on animal welfare, Mr Graus speaks to me about the efforts of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but he knows that he must have the debate on this with the Minister for Security and Justice, Mr Van der Steur. That's the one responsible for the D.A.'s capacity. At the moment when Mr Graus wishes to do so, he must discuss it with him. My responsibility lies in the setting of animal welfare rules, both in the Netherlands and within Europe. I am working hard for the further tightening of the rules, as I have said before, including the rules on the transport of animals. I'm responsible for the NVWA's deployment, but not for the D.A.'s. By the way, the people of my department often speak to the people of justice. The contact between the NVWA and the Public Prosecutor's Office is also good, so that a follow-up is also given when the NVWA encounters certain things. So I have nothing further to complain about this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u198	I just don't agree! We are also the spokesmen for animal welfare; that is the case. This is the shepherd of the sheep. If I were Secretary of State for Animal Welfare, I would have taken the Minister of Justice to his shoelace and said: this can't be done anymore, you have to do something about this! A secretary of state can do that; I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u199	Watch your heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u200	Let me tell you something: the adrenaline is doing me good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u201	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u202	I'm a perfectly healthy person because I throw everything out every day and I don't keep anything up, because it gives you heart sacs. So I say to the Secretary of State: please do so; please check with the Minister of Justice whether these animal matters are being seriously taken up. The same goes for the NVWA and the animal police. Make sure there are animal prosecutors coming in. Isn't that a piece of cake? Those people are already here. You just need people who've had a rabbit in their hands and not people who've only had animals on their plates. There must be some involvement and emotion about animals. Otherwise, those people are in the wrong place; end of practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u203	Mr Graus underestimates his own position as a Member of Parliament. If there is one body that can appeal to any ruler on his responsibility and portfolio, can call to the Chamber to discuss with him what his commitment is, then that is the Chamber. You have that opportunity. You just have to have the conversation with the ruler responsible for that part of the job. It is the case that the Minister of Justice is responsible for the Public Prosecutor's Office and for the use of Justice in animal affairs. I believe that Mr Graus or a fellow member of his group is speaking to the Minister of Justice on this occasion. In the past, for example, he spoke with the Minister of Justice about his initiatives for the animal police. So he really needs to have that debate with that minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u204	There was just an interrupting debate with Mr Geurts on the comparison. The PwC study has been mentioned for a while. We asked for a written round in the proceedings. I think that's good, because there are still a lot of questions. In the end, it is not a comparison of the percentages, but a comparison of the actual costs that an entrepreneur has to pay. The incentive for cost control is currently lacking at NVWA. I will keep my question brief. In the context of outsourcing tasks, the NAC is an example. I do not know what the abbreviation NAK stands for; I said it in full on Tuesday, so I hope you can repeat it, Mr President. I mention outsourcing tasks to the NAC as a positive example, because that is where it works terribly well. Does the Secretary of State not want to see whether, under the responsibility of the NVWA, various laboratories or knowledge institutions can take over certain tasks? They have proved that they can do so at a very low price and with a very good quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u205	NAK stands for the Netherlands General Inspection Service for Seeds and Seeds of Agricultural Plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u206	That's him! Mrs Lodders has often asked about the efficiency of the NVWA: does the NVWA send as low a cost as possible? That's what it's really about. That is precisely why I commissioned last year to have the efficiency checked. That whole report has been available to the Chamber, so it has been able to see exactly where efficiency improvements can be achieved. These efficiency improvements have also been included as an objective in the whole improvement plan and must therefore be achieved. Mrs. Lodders specifically asked about the labs. This concerns the question of what belongs to public responsibility and what should be secured in the public domain. So you can't outsource that to a private organization. This has been the subject of more consideration, particularly with regard to laboratories. It has been deliberately decided to keep the laboratories in public hands, precisely because of the reliability and certainty of the supervision, because you always have to be able to guarantee that yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u207	We are going to discuss the NVWA in detail in another debate. I think there's a way in. I hope that the Secretary of State will reconsider this in the run-up to that debate. The intermediate route is that the NVWA can outsource tasks, while remaining ultimately responsible itself. The NAK also examines whether a number of steps are being carried out properly. Now let's see the benefits of that with each other, so that we get an even more efficient organisation and there might be some room within the NVWA to prioritize on other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u208	Suggestions for improving efficiency and thus reducing the cost level for the NVWA are always very welcome to me. It is not for nothing that I have had externally examined the possibilities in this area. I also included that efficiency gain in the financial mandate to the NVWA. I have said that it must also realise the efficiency gains contained in that report. Mrs Lodders gives a specific example and says: could you not outsource that task? Rather, a very conscious consideration has been made on the basis of the question: what do you really have to do yourself in order to ensure proper supervision? That is, for example, about the laboratory research. Let us just talk about this in January. The Court then has the revised plan of action, which also includes a number of programme lines on the basis of the Court's questions. We are also talking about the way in which this is reported. This is also about the realisation of the financial side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u209	I am informed that there will be a general consultation on this matter on 15 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u210	I think that has been postponed to January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u211	It's still on December 15th.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u212	Then it's still December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u213	That's fast, and that's good. The discussion was just about the opinion of the Council of State and the interpretation of the Secretary of State. We will continue to discuss this on 15 December. I'd like to broaden that discussion a little bit. In administrative law, you also have the basic principles that something should be reasonable and that something should be fair. Does the Secretary of State consider it reasonable and fair that a slaughterhouse should pay €300,000 for a full-time supervisor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u214	Mr Dijkgraaf pretends that this is only the cost to that one supervisor. We are talking about a slaughter which is open all year round, so it has to be slaughtered all year round. There must be a permanent supervisor there. That supervisor costs money. That's a licensed vet. But behind that is a number of overhead costs that are also included, which are also necessary in order to be able to carry out that monitoring. That's exactly what PwC tested. All these tariffs have been kept under review. It is noted that there is indeed an integral cost and that these integral costs are also passed on. So yes, I think that is reasonable and fair in that sense, because it is the costs that are incurred in carrying out that supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u215	How much FTE for the supervisor is the Secretary of State talking about? Now the Secretary of State seems to assume that the company is open six days a week for 24 hours. Of course, it's closed on Sundays. It'll take at least three people. Is that how I'm supposed to see it? Is it actually only €100,000 per FTE? The information I get is that it really is about €300,000 per full-time person present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u216	This is an hourly rate which includes all costs. These are both the direct costs for the on-the-spot supervisor and the costs necessary to carry out that supervision. They've been tested, too. These are simply the result of the integrated cost approach. They were tested by PwC. This is what it costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u217	All the more important is the discussion about what costs you are allowed to pass on. Of course, you can't sell this to a company. The Secretary of State said that there is now a balance between the budget and the tasks. In two years, another 20 million will go off the budget. Why doesn't the Secretary of State at least arrange for that austerity not to be reversed? In my view, the Secretary of State will also have to admit that there is already an enormous tension between the tasks that exist, the available budget and the rates to be charged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u218	On the basis of the surveys I had carried out in the spring, which we discussed with each other, I added 23 million to the NVWA's budget in order to balance the tasks and the budget available. There is a possibility to improve efficiency for the NVWA. It also comes from the investigations. The Court has always said that the NVWA must operate as efficiently as possible, precisely in order to justify to the business community that the costs that are passed on are justified and that the NVWA should do its work as efficiently as possible. Therefore, the booking of efficiency is also included in the series, as the NVWA has to achieve in the long term a number of efficiency improvements that are feasible and possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u219	To continue with the latter: I dare to doubt it. You can book in as much as 20 million and say "we improve ICT systems," but it is of course a fact that over the last fifteen years, one in three staff has disappeared from the Food and War Authority and its predecessors. So it is very much a question of whether this can be taken up. That's what I wanted to say. I would like to continue where Mr Dijkgraaf stopped, namely that company that would pay €300,000 per inspector. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider it a little wider? Of course, there are also people who say: that is actually a wrong way of financing. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at a kind of generic financing of this type of activity, replacing the direct link with the control exercised on one holding, for example that slaughterhouse, with a kind of generic rate, which broadens that rate and not just that one company? So it's about making things more generic, so that the relationship between a company and the Dutch Food and War Authority can become more independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u220	That relationship is independent, because in order to be able to slaughter, you need permanent supervision. That is what European legislation says. That permanent supervision is exercised by NVWA. On the basis of Maatbehoud, we agreed in 2013 that the principle of benefit should apply to permanent supervision and that the costs should be passed on to the party benefiting from it. Let us put it in perspective for a moment. You are talking about the cost of supervision of €300,000 for a slaughterhouse, and I do not know what slaughter is involved, I say to Mr Dijkgraaf, who undoubtedly gets a turnover of many millions, of which an important part is exported. In order to make a good living in exports, there must be certainty about production systems and their safety. That's why you need that surveillance. Those three tons are therefore well-earned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u221	I don't care about the $300,000. I'm a little concerned with the principle. Let me make a bridge to health surveillance. The inspection supervises hospitals, but these hospitals are not taken into account. I actually reason from that thought. I'm going back to food safety. I mention the abattoirs, but it is of course about the whole sector. We have not implemented this principle of profit everywhere, as we have done in those abattoirs. Hence my point. Of course, there's money involved. Is it possible to calculate a scenario where those costs are more generically allocated, so that the money does come in, but is not only brought in by, in this case, those abattoirs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u222	I have to say that for me it is a new sensation that I hear someone from the SP compare a hospital to a commercial company. You compare a place where people will hopefully be made healthy or helped to recover, with a slaughterhouse where chickens are slaughtered. That is, of course, totally incomparable. At a hospital, we're talking about a public task. Here we are simply talking about a commercial activity, which requires supervision. The cabinet has chosen to do so: there is a principle of profit and that benefit goes well beyond the costs involved in that supervision. We are therefore directly charging these costs on the basis of the principle of profit. The generic tax model proposed by Mr Van Gerven actually means that these costs are met by having all these companies pay additional taxes. That can be done, but then you link the costs you have to pay, regardless of the benefits you have, and that means that smaller companies will pay relatively more and larger companies will pay relatively less. I believe that this is the case for a party that has a strong commitment to solidarity, and for Mr Van Gerven it is not the path that should normally be taken. In my opinion, the principle of profit reflects the fact that, as a commercial company, you benefit from the supervision that is being carried out. So you pay a share of the account, namely the costs you actually cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u223	Mr Van Gerven is addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u224	Finally. The question is whether you should always apply the principle of benefit to supervision. That is the essential point I want to make. Hence my question as to whether there could be a scenario with a generic tax. I didn't think that through to the finesses. I was concerned with the principle that supervision in general is a public body, a body which must guarantee independent and sound supervision. That's what I'm thinking. The analyses made are now all thought through and calculated. The question is whether the imposition of a generic tax is a possible scenario, whether it is a passable path and whether scenarios can be passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u225	It is not the case that we finance everything through the principle of profit. The NVWA is very substantially financed from tax resources, but where the principle of profit or the polluter pays principle is applied, costs are passed on. Companies which are subject to re-inspections because of infringements must bear the costs themselves. This cabinet has chosen to pass on the costs in this way and this cabinet does not want to do so in any other way. We believe that the principle of profit should apply. The discussion was about what costs and how much you would charge. I understand that, but the principle is not under discussion, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u226	We have a problem. The Secretary of State has just referred to reports and efficiency. It is true that these reports were for inspection by the Chamber, but that was under secrecy. He's referring to that now, but we can't talk about it. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to make these reports public immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u227	We have often discussed these reports and the conclusions that emerge from them. I made it public in the letter that your Chamber received.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u228	The Secretary of State refers to efficiency. That's what the report says, but I can't talk about it, because I've seen it under secrecy. Hence my request once again to make those reports public, because the conclusion he sent to the Chamber does not say much about efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u229	We've talked about that before. Those reports contain information that goes deeply into the management of the NVWA. Disclosure would disclose information to companies that may not take it as closely as possible to the rules. That has been the reason not to make them public, which has always received the consent of a large majority of this Chamber. I did not refer in any way to the precise content of the report, only to its conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u230	In general terms, I can only say that this dilemma is of course more frequent in the Chamber. A procedure for making information confidential is usually agreed at procedural meetings. I don't know if that's what happened in this case. We'll check it out. I understand that there is a dilemma and a problem, but if the Secretary of State says that there is all kinds of information that is competitive or sensitive to the sector, then of course it has some value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u231	I understand that in itself, and so I would like to suggest to the Secretary of State to leave out those parts that are susceptible to fraud. Moreover, I believe that the Secretary of State means fraud-sensitive and not competition-sensitive. We are not concerned with the detailed procedure; we are concerned with the justification of efficiency. It is certainly important for the general consultation on 15 December to see whether the cuts entered are reasonable or whether they should simply be budgeted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u232	I believe that the Chamber has had all the relevant information. We have also discussed these reports before, and this complaint has not been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u233	No, but that's because the Secretary of State is now so committed to that efficiency and refers to the reports that there are. Then we'll have a need to do that too. The Secretary of State creates a new fact, but then there will also be a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u234	No, I didn't talk about it in any other way than at the time of the general discussion. At that time, it was no problem for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u235	Yeah, but it is now. Here is a very specific request from the Chamber for those parts...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u236	No, no, from two members of the Chamber so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u237	Certainly, Mr President, but we can broaden that if it is desirable and necessary. Here is the CDA's and the SGP's specific request, and I would like to hear others like them to share it with us in order to make those parts that concern efficiency public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u238	The information referred to by Mr Dijkgraaf, which goes into detail about efficiency, for example the costs he mentions, is of course in the parts in which you can see in detail the management of the NVWA. I don't want to make it public. That would give potential fraudsters a huge head start.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u239	I may have a solution and the Members of Parliament who need it may see it without having equipment or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u240	But that's what just happened. Mr Geurts, you have been able to see this confidentially, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u241	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u242	And so you can't do anything with it. Then you can choose not to see it. That is a dilemma that the Chamber often faces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u243	The second option is that some things are blacked out that contain confidential information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u244	I'm sure there's still a black marker somewhere, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u245	Yes. Again, I'm just trying to think along.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u246	I hear three individual members of the Chamber making a request, and I hear the Secretary of State react negatively to it. Does he persist in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u247	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u248	Then let's leave it at that, unless there's still a request for order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u249	I'm trying to think a little bit along. Would the Secretary of State, having heard the discussion, be able to send a further letter in terms of efficiency in order to colour that even more, without helping potential fraudsters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u250	Forgive me, but I really get the impression that Members have forgotten what information they have all been given. They have really had all the information they need to give an assessment of this. In fact, they've already given that assessment. It has already been on the agenda for consultation with the Chamber. We've already talked about it. We have talked about the conclusions and efficiency, in much more specific terms than we are doing here. That general consultation was held and there was no problem for anyone. I like it; a general consultation is scheduled on 15 December and Members can look at all the documents they need in advance. But I would remind the Chamber that she could have already done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u251	For the record, I deliberately did not get to see that report, because I know the dilemma: once you have seen it, you can't really do anything anymore. Of course, I hear others who have seen it. The debate has been held, but they still have a question for information. That is why I made the interim proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u252	The Secretary of State did not respond positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u253	That's my point, too. I'm not going to see that confidential information at all, because I can't do anything with it. So that's bullshit. There is a single exception, and that is when it comes to state security, for example. Then I'm willing to do that. But for this kind of thing, I'm very sorry. Have the Secretary of State make it available to you, but I won't look into it. For this reason, I request that those parts be made public which may be public. It'll make everyone feel better. That's what experts can look at, we can find some of it, and then we can have an open discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u254	You've already made that appeal to the Secretary of State. He didn't respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u255	I have listened to you very carefully, Mr President. We are going to talk about this point again at the procedural meeting. That's the usual place for this. However, I would like to respond to what the Secretary of State says. He says: we have already talked about this and then the Chamber has not made a point of this. He pretends that time has stood still. We didn't have access to the Council of State's opinion at the time. We didn't have access to the PwC report at the time. We have not yet had access to the policy response of the cabinet. The Secretary of State now referred to efficiency. There is therefore every reason to make these documents public, as was initially requested by me and then requested by other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u256	It's been noted. Before 15 December there will be another one or more procedural meetings. That is where the Chamber can take this point further. I propose to the Secretary of State to continue with the topic of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u257	Mr President, you are, of course, speaking about the planning of this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u258	That's right. Would you like me to suspend for a humane break?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u259	I'd like that anyway. But I'm just looking. Sustainability is also an extensive block. Then there's another block. I'm just wondering what kind of planning you have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u260	I'd like you to look into my secret diary. My plan is to let you complete your answer all the way before dinner break...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u261	There.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u262	...so it won't be night work. The experience shows that when it comes to dinner break, it goes a little faster than when you continue after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u263	Mr. Chairman. I just ate a brownie, so I can go on until dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u264	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u265	This is not a good example, but a good one. We were on the subject of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u266	You just finished the whole food story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u267	I've had all the healthy food, so now I got the brownie.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u268	Yeah, the food story's over, so you can sin quietly with your brownies. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u269	Let's move on to the topic of sustainability. Mr. Chairman. Several groups have spoken of speeding up the sustainability of livestock farming. Among others, Mrs Thieme, Mr Van Gerven and Mr Geurts asked about it. I also said a few words about it in the introduction. We face the big challenge of delivering high quality sustainable products. The question is how this sustainability can be accelerated. We can see that, despite previous ambitions, this sustainability does not have the pace we had planned, including in the wake of the Van Doorn Committee. That is why I asked the Economic and Social Committee to give its opinion on how this acceleration can take place. In my letter last Monday on this subject, I informed the Chamber how I see it. I had asked the ESC to put forward concrete proposals for actions and measures for interested parties to contribute to the further sustainability of intensive livestock farming in the ecological, social and social spheres. This further sustainability must lead to a better social embedding of intensive livestock farming and, of course, to a good income for livestock farmers. I also drew attention to this. At the time, I discussed with Mr Nijpels, the chairman of the committee, that the opinion would now be published. Since we are sitting a few months before the elections, there would undoubtedly be recommendations that would be feasible in the short term. I also discussed that it would be highly desirable for the opinion to include longer-term recommendations. As a result, for example, the various parties in this house may discuss with each other the question of which of these should be taken over in a future period. Mrs Thieme asked me to accept the recommendations. Mr Van Gerven asked what it all means for the sectors and what steps are to be taken. I have looked at what recommendations from the ESC opinion I can implement in the short term. The most important thing the ESC advises is a firmer direction on sustainability per chain and a central director, who appeals to parties across the chains for their results. I will therefore appoint a director in the first quarter of 2017. As it is towards the end of this cabinet period, I realise that it must of course be someone who can count on broad support, including in the sectors. This director should set out how far the sectors are on the path of sustainability and should discuss sustainability plans for each sector with all stakeholders, united in a platform that is yet to be established. I have also commissioned the development of a monitor for sustainable livestock farming. It will also be ready in spring 2017. This will monitor the progress of the sustainability steps. The existing ambitions of the Sustainable Cattle Implementing Agenda, the UDV, are used as a guide for this. The result will be a zero measurement per sector, which will form the basis for the further trajectory while allowing benchmarking between different sectors. I will also discuss with the partners of the UDV to include the UDV-program in the direction of the director. In addition, a zero measurement per sector shows the extent to which the different sectors are currently more sustainable. They are then called upon to draw up decisive acceleration agendas. The sustainability plans already drawn up by the sectors are the starting point for this. The ESC also made a number of longer-term recommendations. They were sometimes ambitious, and that was the intention. I think it is a good thing that the director, together with the various sectors, looks at the longer-term ambitions and then advises the next cabinet to tackle any of those long-term ambitions. I also think it is right that the various parties in the Chamber should look at which of the concrete instruments, for example, prioritisation; the Nipples Committee recommended that policy really focus on the 30% leaders and funding options they want to use in the future to make livestock farming more sustainable. For that, the advice gives the Chamber a lot of nutrition, but I think it is really something for another period to discuss further how a new cabinet will pick up this glove. Mr Geurts asked what this opinion means for the farmer's income. As regards the further sustainability of livestock farming, the main challenge I have already mentioned a few times today is to ensure that the yields of more sustainable animal products reach all parties in the chain, especially the primary producer, the farmer. That is the responsibility of all the links in the livestock chain. They will have to realise that quality and sustainability have a price and that all links must receive a reasonable reward for the extra efforts they make to meet changing market demands and demands. This is also one of the main points of interest, including for the director and the platform to be set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u270	I take it you haven't finished the part about the future of livestock farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u271	It's about the Nipples advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u272	The Secretary of State says that the sustainability of livestock farming is not fast enough. The number of megasthals is growing, meadow birds are heating back, phosphate is sky high, CO emissions are growing, targets of the Water Framework Directive and the Birds and Habitats Directives are not going to be reached by far, according to all the studies. What do you mean, sustainability isn't fast enough? We're just burping the wrong way. Mr President, would the Secretary of State like to face that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u273	This is a bit of an example of what we were talking about earlier. It is true that steps are being taken to make livestock farming more sustainable. See the Rosenthal action plan on the future of pig farming, see how the province of Brabant, together with pig farming, intends to steer the development of pig farming in the province. Look what happened in the poultry sector. There the first step has been taken from the traditional chicken breed to a breed that grows slower and that also gets a little more space: tomorrow's chicken that is in all the supermarkets today. So steps are being taken. Are there any setbacks? Yeah, there are. That is why I also said that I would like advice from the ESC and the Nipples Committee on the question of how the sustainability agenda is not going to be fast enough, that it is not going to go through, that it sometimes has some setbacks and what we can do about it to ensure that this agenda is moving forward. We have received an opinion on this. This is an important opinion, including for future policy on the sustainability of livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u274	In all seriousness: I do not want to become a sort of doomed man here, but I wonder what the sense of urgency is with the Dutch Government and this Secretary of State if you see a little progress here and there compared to a massive decline that has continued over the last few years. The pig farm? Plans have been made for years. See Rosenthal opinion. Paper's patient. It's about being executed, but it's not. The reform of pig farming has not yet taken place, although it should have taken place long ago. Dairy farming has grown tremendously, against all wishes and expectations. Isn't it a false representation of reality to say "it's not fast enough; it needs a tooth"? It's just gross modo going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u275	What Mr Grashoff is saying is that the bulk of fashion is going in the wrong direction, I cannot support it. I think it is going in the right direction step by step, but it is going incredibly slowly and there are also setbacks. On a number of points, we have far from achieved the goals. Mr Grashoff spoke about meadow birds. That is what we discussed last week. It is not for nothing that we have taken a whole new direction with agricultural nature management. After all, it must have more effect. Take the emissions from the livestock farm. We send that the highest possible sustainability requirements are applied to new stables. I will say a few words about this through the Sustainable Farming Maatlat. This is also supported. So you see step by step renewal of stables. So it is moving in the right direction, but I fully agree with Mr Grashoff that it is going very slowly. That was precisely the reason for asking for advice: what can the government do to make it go faster? The Nijpels Committee makes proposals on this which, if implemented by a subsequent cabinet, are also a break with the past. Much stronger bets on frontrunners. We're doing that already, including the MDV. The Nijpels Committee also makes recommendations on how to finance this, because in the end there must be investment by farmers and they must be able to earn a living. It's not gonna happen on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u276	Mr Grashoff, do you think there is any point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u277	Yes. The sad thing about this story is that the failure of public intervention in the field of the sustainability of livestock farming and agriculture in the wider sense ultimately makes me realize that I also make a contribution to the fact that farmers themselves are no longer earning a good living and that phosphate rights and trade are also being affected. This cabinet period goes into history as a failed cabinet period in the area of sustainability of agriculture. We will indeed have to put our cards on the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u278	I believe that GroenLinks has also drawn that conclusion from most of the previous Cabinets. I really think that a number of steps have been taken in the right direction by the cabinet. In the year that I have been allowed to do this job, of course, I did not ask the ESC to advise on this for nothing either. I have also given nothing for nothing to support, for example, the Vitalisation Action Plan for Pigs. I think that we need to take steps in this direction. I've asked the poultry sector to write its own future plan. So steps are being taken, and no, they are going as quickly as Mr Grashoff would like and not as quickly as I would like. I think it's necessary to put a few teeth on it. That is why I would like to appoint this director in the coming months who will be working on the opinion of the Nipples Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u279	We all want sustainability, but it is not going to be good in practice, or let us be cautious about it. It is now proposed to appoint a director. A director is someone who has the direction and who also has certain perseverance. Who could or should be? What opportunities does such a director have to make it a real success? Can the Secretary of State elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u280	I informed the Chamber on Monday about my response to the opinion of the ESC. That's pretty fast. I did this because I felt it needed to be clear to the Chamber what I could implement in the short term and to indicate what parties could be important topics for their discussions on the use of a future cabinet for sustainable livestock policy. That director is something I can implement myself in the short term. I have also mentioned a number of other things that I will do in the short term. I sent that to the Chamber on Monday and I do not have a name for Mr Van Gerven today. In fact, that would not be good either, because as I said, I think it should be someone who has broad support. After all, it is primarily the sectors themselves that have to shape the changes. Agriculture sectors, for example, should also try to reach agreements with the retail sector. They must say: this is where we want to go; does that correspond to the direction you see in front of you? It is up to the government to support these kinds of developments. The director must therefore have broad support for the sectors, because he must also survive me in this position, he must also be able to do his job in another cabinet. It's an important part. The Nipples Committee does not advise that for nothing. So it is also someone who must bring the different parties together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u281	I asked not so much about a name as about the profile and the perseverance he or she gets. The Secretary of State says that the Commissioner should have support in the sector, but then it could just be one of us, one of us. Perhaps we should not have that in order to make progress in all these sectors. We have seen how things have been in recent years. On the contrary, it is often pressure or external developments that have triggered certain developments. So I ask again: what possibilities does such a director have? Does this director direct and does he or she have a certain perseverance power or is it more of an oil man or oil woman? If it's that last one, I don't think we're gonna get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u282	The Nijpels Committee also makes a number of recommendations concerning, for example, funding. They are partly about private financing and partly about public funding. As I have said, I can imagine that the director is going to work with the sectors. He must ensure a tailor-made approach by sector. He must also ensure monitoring and zero measurement, so that we know where we stand and which path to follow. However, he will also have to indicate which of the instruments mentioned in the Nijpels report he thinks he needs to actually implement that approach. He'll have to advise us on that. This could lead to an interesting debate in the Chamber on what instruments it is prepared to use in that opinion. These are deliberately long-term measures advised by the ESC. It would not be appropriate for us to discuss the question of 'what is and what is not' with each other just before the elections. This seems to me to be a real consideration that the Chamber, partly on the basis of the advice of that director, will have to make in a number of months. The most important thing the director has to do is bring the parties together, draw up the agenda and advise on the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u283	Isn't that right, Mr. Van Gerven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u284	Yeah, just a little bit longer, Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the profile of the director. That is a crucial issue. I think it's very important that that person is an independent, powerful person. One may not have the support of the others, but I am very much in favour of a powerful, independent person with a clear vision of where we want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u285	It is obvious that it must be someone who wants something, but it must also be someone who can be carried by the sectors that ultimately matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u286	This discussion narrows itself again to "small or large" and "nature or farmer," while the discussion should focus on what is produced sustainably and how sustainable growth can be achieved, which is always in balance with nature. Ecologically, then. I have the following question to the Secretary of State, especially since we have the ambition that the Netherlands has the most sustainable and innovative agriculture and nature sectors. Can the Secretary of State ensure that the director who will be at the helm sets out concrete goals related to ecological growth, regardless of whether it is a small farmer or a large farmer? The other day, with Mr Lodders, I was at a pig farm in Brabant. It was very large, but also very durable. So it's possible. Can the Secretary of State promise that the director, who will be drawing the agenda with the group, will make all kinds of concrete proposals...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u287	But you'd already asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u288	...to do that ecologically?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u289	Sure. He must also work together with the sectors towards tailor-made plans, including transition paths, on what steps to take and what instruments are needed: what instruments are needed, which parties should participate and what agreements are needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u290	Do I understand correctly the Secretary of State that very specific goals with time paths are included so that we do not take small steps forward or even stove backwards, but that we can really take big steps? After all, this agenda for the best product from the Netherlands must be settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u291	That is, of course, the ambition. That is why I have asked for advice from the ESC and why I am also now saying that I want to appoint the director in the short term so that he can start working on these ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, we are constantly on the sidelines, just to stay in the metaphor of this debate. I understand the urgency of my colleagues. In my opinion, a director is not the solution to this problem at all, i.e. not the great solution. It is not for nothing that I asked for the larger plan in the first place and to come forward with it before 1 March, so that we can say something about it in the context of the formation. The plan of the ESC was actually not necessary at all. Mr Nijpels himself says: I have read through cartloads of reports, I have punched through a staple and I have based my opinions on that. This is literally in the report. Actually, it wasn't necessary, because the urgency was already there. That advice was fine, I also welcomed it, but a plan must now be drawn up in the short term, with a sense of urgency. That is why I asked for this to be done by 15 March in the first term. Is that what the Secretary of State is planning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u293	Mr Nijpels has said that there are already many opinions, so we are not writing a new opinion. He did, of course, write a new opinion, but it was not a new opinion on sustainability. I asked him to come up with an opinion on how this sustainability can be accelerated and why all these ambitions and opinions are not realised. One of the most important conclusions is that there is no chain management; there is no owner of this issue. Therefore, he advises to appoint a director who is explicitly given the role of chain director who is on top of it. He has to bring the parties together, make arrangements with them, and they'll stick to their responsibilities. That is not for nothing one of the most important advice I can and will implement in the short term. This chain director then starts working with the different sectors. There must be a tailor-made approach based on the plans already in place to outline the transition paths. He should also provide an opinion on what instruments are needed to achieve it. The Nijpels Committee mentions various instruments that may be necessary. Knowing how this Chamber disagrees, it requires the necessary political debate to decide which instruments we should or should not use. As far as I am concerned, that is not appropriate a month before the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u294	Perhaps I did not put it very carefully, because it was not about the opinion, but about the many reports that formed the basis of Nijpels' opinion. Nijpels' advice was only about livestock farming, about intensive livestock farming. Agriculture, including livestock farming, is a bigger story than just livestock farming. I'm looking for the bigger story of nature-inclusive agriculture. You referred to the food summit in January. Fantastic, because we wholeheartedly support your food line. We also know that there is a nature summit in February. I would like to see a link between these two sectors, a summit on nature and agriculture where the sectors sit together and come to such a beautiful plan. I can imagine that we could take an advance on this and come to such a summit in the spring. Is that an idea the Secretary of State might be able to take over?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u295	That sounds interesting, because nature-inclusive agriculture is ultimately the future perspective. We're gonna have to work on that. This is also about transitions that will take a long time, and that the cabinet will not start on its own in its days. In the letter I recently sent, I indicated how I intend to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u296	The Secretary of State continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u297	In this context, I received questions about the Model Sustainable Cattle Farming, also from the PvdA Group. It is important to make livestock farming systems more sustainable. The size bar is reviewed annually and requirements are tightened. I am currently in consultation with interested parties on the development of a multi-annual strategy to increase the ambition structurally much more firmly each year. We are also looking at the request of the PvdA Group during the previous budget debate, which elements of the Better Life label could be reflected in the size bar and at what rate that could be possible to bring these matters closer together. Mr Van Gerven spoke about the milk quota and asked whether that was not a mistake. This has a lot to do with his view of the role of the public authorities in relation to agriculture. Let me say first of all that I do not believe in a government that plans production from above and shapes the economy. I believe in a government that lays down framework conditions, social conditions, environmental conditions, spatial conditions, animal welfare requirements and so on, but which gives further scope for free entrepreneurship. In 2008 it was decided to abolish milk quotas by 1 April 2015. This abolition is within the vision of my predecessors: more market orientation in the common agricultural policy. Prices were relatively high at the time. After that, there has been a growing supply from New Zealand and the United States and there has also been a decline in demand from China. These factors have contributed to the fall in prices in the dairy sector. It is therefore not one-on-one to lead back to the abolition of the milk quota. I know it sometimes seems like it's one-on-one, but that's not the case. In the meantime, despite the fact that the milk quota has still been abolished, prices show a cautious recovery. For the dairy sector, there is still a long-term outlook for growth. In 2013, an ex ante evaluation was carried out in the Netherlands by the LEI and the PBL. It calculated that milk production in the Netherlands would increase by 20% between 2011 and 2020 by the abolition of the milk quota; that dairy production would increase by 9%, but phosphate production by 0%. On the basis of that scientific knowledge, at the time, at the end of 2013, the cabinet decided that there was no need to introduce a legally secured production limit after the expiry of the milk quota system. Looking back, although I was not in this position at the time, but read the necessary information, I remember that the expiry of milk quotas in dairy farming was experienced as a day of liberation. I believe that at that point in time there was no majority in this Chamber who said to the cabinet that it would be wise to replace that restriction on milk production with a restriction on something else, such as phosphate production, which we will be discussing next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u298	I believe that suddenly there is a very great need for the Chamber to discuss this with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u299	The Secretary of State may not believe this, but he can read it back. The SGP said, "Do you have to do that? We didn't have that milk quota for nothing, but because of butter mountains, cheese heaps and milk ponds?" The Ministry's response was that there was growth in China and India. It pointed to scientific reports, but we said: look at 80 years of agricultural history and don't do it. If you do, make sure you have a plan B in case things go wrong. And what have we done? Nothing. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u300	When I look back, I see that there were several Members in the Chamber, such as Mr Grashoff, who is now coming forward, who said the same thing at the time. There were several members who asked whether it would not be wise to limit production, but several members do not yet make a majority in this Chamber. The majority of the Chamber did not ask that question at the time. My predecessor has shaped her policy on the basis of the estimates of the PBL and the LEI, not the least institutes in this area. These renowned institutes said they expected no problem with phosphate production. At the time, my predecessor warned the sector and said, "Watch out, you can grow production, but you will have to pay attention to environmental limits, and if you do not, I will still take production restrictions. It announced this at the end of 2013. In retrospect, it would have prevented many problems if direct production-limiting measures had been taken, not so much with regard to milk production as with regard to manure production, which is the most important environmental condition. This choice was not made on the basis of support in the sector and in this Chamber and on the basis of scientific insights. On the basis of these scientific findings, it has been assumed that phosphate production would not increase so rapidly. Moreover, the industry itself had provided guarantees that it would take measures to limit that growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u301	That's exactly my point. Anyone who reads a book about 80 years of agricultural history knows this isn't working. With 18,500 dairy farms you're not gonna do that and you can't put that responsibility on their plate. Wouldn't it have testified to leadership if the Ministry had taken the initiative? There was no majority in parliament, that's right, but that had to do with the message from the Ministry that it wasn't a problem, given those analyses. Shouldn't you be using your sane sense of farming? I then started talking to farmers who were working in a traditional way; not growing fast, only when you have money left. They said, guys, this is going wrong, because that's how things always went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u302	If you now see how much milk production and manure production have increased, you can say that it would have been a lot of trouble if it had been decided at the time to take restrictive measures, to set environmental limits. In fact, this has happened quite quickly. In the first instance, this has been done through the compulsory manure treatment system and the system of responsible and land-based growth. All this has not produced enough braking. As a result, the government had to say in the summer of 2015 that the introduction of a system of phosphate rights was inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u303	That's exactly the annoying point. Then it was said: we are going to require manure treatment. After that, it was called ground-based growth. We will then have a report from the PBL which will once again show that the measures taken are sufficient. And then there's got to be a third step over it. Yesterday I was walking around the cattle fair. I don't think it's weird that one farmer after another says to me: "Guys, what are you doing in The Hague? One measure has not yet been implemented, or the next will be on top of it. The margin is under pressure, the price is under pressure and costs are rising. How should I invest? How am I supposed to surrender the company to the new generation? That's impossible to do, isn't it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u304	I think that everyone in this Chamber agrees that, in retrospect, a heavier brake has been applied over and over again. If you'd known that before, you wouldn't want to do it like that. However, it was previously estimated that growth would take place, but that growth could take place within the environmental boundary conditions. Measures were announced by the sector to ensure that these conditions were respected. These measures were also taken, for example with regard to feed. When it turned out that growth was going fast, the brakes were kicked. When it became clear that growth would really go through the ceiling, State Secretary Dijksma immediately indicated that it could only take restrictive measures on production and introduce a system of production rights. It did so in mid-2015, when the figures from 2014 showed that the phosphate ceiling was close and also the current figures showed that growth was continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u305	I see a lot of interruptions. Maybe you can't look the cow too much into a certain body part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u306	I didn't want to quote the proverb.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u307	The Secretary of State started by blaming the SP for having a certain vision that was different from that of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u308	That wasn't a reproach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u309	The Secretary of State says the market has to fix it. The market has done its job. And what happened? All the farmers went after the money. That has been predicted by many. A lot of people have said that would go wrong. It was very simple. The milk price was high and the case was released. What are farmers gonna do, bent on by the Rabobank and other financiers? Produce, produce, produce. That's what happened. Doesn't the Secretary of State think it was a major mistake to let go of the milk quota afterwards? Would it not have testified to leadership and understanding of the functioning of the market in order to maintain that regulation from a double point of view? I am thinking, of course, of the environment, of the phosphate problem and so on, but also of a certain development in the dairy farming sector which we in the Netherlands consider desirable for rural areas. I point out grazing and other things. The bigger the company, the sooner that kind of thing comes under pressure. After all, would it not have been wiser to maintain the milk quota? That was also my first-term question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u310	The President already referred to a proverb which is very common in this sector. Let me say to Mr Van Gerven that I did not blame him for looking at it differently than I did. That is simply a difference in political vision, as we know it in more areas, and that makes the debate interesting. But looking back, I don't think you should have let go of the milk quota. The question was: can you produce in a free market in such a way that you remain within the environmental limits? It is not illogical for a ruler to ask for an assessment of the most important expert we have in this country. In this case, that's what happened. I dare say that the LEI, the Agriculture Economic Institute, has more knowledge of the development of the agricultural economy and of what is happening in markets than we all do here. That is self-evident; it exists for that. The Planning Office for the Environment has a lot of knowledge about environmental boundary conditions. It makes continuous assessments of developments. At the time, they found together that this growth is possible within the environmental boundary conditions. They were expecting growth. International opportunities were also great. The demand for dairy would increase. It is still expected, also from the World Food Organisation, that the demand for dairy will increase worldwide due to the growing world population and the increased level of prosperity. So there were also great opportunities for Dutch dairy. What testifies to leadership of a ruler is that he is looking at whether these opportunities can be grasped within the environmental boundary conditions. The experts' response to this was: yes, that is possible. When it turned out that it couldn't be done, my predecessor immediately stepped on the brakes and took measures. I agree with Mr Dijkgraaf that this has been a accumulation of measures in retrospect. If you had taken action with the knowledge of today, then you wouldn't have signed up to pile up measures like this. Of course not. However, all this has to do with the unfortunately incorrect ex ante assessment that it would not go as fast as it did afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u311	It is incomprehensible that the LEI was able to deliver such an opinion at the time. I also wonder how independent the LEI has been. That is, of course, always a serious accusation towards such an institution, but I can't reach it with my hat. For years there was talk of superlevies, because farmers went over the milk quota because the market was favourable. There is, of course, a direct link between the quantity of animals and the phosphate surplus. The Secretary of State shakes his head a little, but in 2015, I said, there was a growth of 6.8%. Isn't that a percentage that leads to a phosphate surplus and more manure? You can't catch that in other ways, can you? Because I know what other tracks have been tracked. My question is: should that milk quota not have been maintained? The Secretary of State doesn't want to do that and he says that we can't, because we have to let the market go. But we are allowed to regulate along the environmental trail. Isn't that the exact same thing? What difference does it make in principle whether a government regulates the market through environmental measures or through the number of animals? Isn't it the starting point for the government to show leadership and regulate the market where it fails?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u312	We have indeed come to this situation: the government must regulate where the market is failing. Actually, it can be seen how difficult that is for the government, because it intervenes on property. That is always a complicated form of regulation. Mr Van Gerven rightly says that livestock growth leads to more phosphate production. This is partly due to livestock growth, but partly to animal feed. It turns out that this can also influence phosphate production. At the time, the LEI and the PBL estimated that the dairy herd would grow by 9% between 2011 and 2020. This percentage has been reached within two years from 2014. However, it was also estimated that phosphate production would not increase. Thus, there would be an increase in the dairy herd and an even harder growth in milk production, without which they would have to lead to growing phosphate production. Of course, there are possibilities for controlling the individual farm to produce more milk while less phosphate is produced. This is evident from these figures, and it is also apparent from practice. That is precisely why the government decided on 2 July 2015 to introduce phosphate rights and not to work with animal rights, precisely because that would give entrepreneurs the freedom to steer milk production within the environmental boundary conditions. So this is still in line with the vision I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u313	I call Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u314	But Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u315	I've got you three times now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u316	No, twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u317	No way, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u318	Twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u319	I'm not gonna sit on this one millimeter, but you're gonna notice for yourself that you're not getting any closer to each other? But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u320	I want to get a look ahead. We have seen that the farmers have been driven mad by the money and that they have been rushed to produce as much as possible. That will not change, because perhaps the milk price will pick up in a year or so. In view of the mess that it has now become with all these successive measures which have also worked against each other, would it not be wise to go into dairy farming, because let us now talk about creating peace and quiet? Let us have a clear and consistent government policy, for example for the next ten years, so that farmers at least know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u321	I think that such a future perspective would certainly be very attractive. I think we should work on that. I also think that we will discuss this with each other in detail next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u322	I understand that Mrs Lodders now wishes to make a point of order. That always comes first, so the floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u323	Mr President, I would indeed like to make a point of order. Let me make it clear that I do not want to reduce this round of interruptions, but there is now a debate that has also been scheduled for next week's plenary agenda. I would be very sorry if we now had half a debate and next week the whole debate on the same subject. For me, the issue is too important to have half a debate on it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u324	I fully agree with you, but at the beginning of the sitting I said that a number of things would be dealt with here in the short term. The Secretary of State also pointed this out. But I am also accused of keeping the interruptions too short. So it's up to the Chamber to say it yourself. I'll continue with the interruptions, but I heard what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u325	The abandonment of milk quotas was not the problem, but the refusal to take measures. Several amendments have been tabled, including by Mr Schouw, Mr Smaling and Mr Ouwehand. I would just like to read out what was always asked for: 'This amendment aims to ensure that the land-based nature of dairy farming remains' or 'This amendment makes grazing a condition for the expansion of dairy farming'. Why doesn't the Secretary of State acknowledge that he hasn't had the guts to go against the VVD, the coalition colleague who didn't look beyond a year, when it was clear to everyone that conditions had to be imposed on this? Does the Secretary of State recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u326	I am not taking into account the considerations made by the Chamber, nor are I taking into account those of the individual groups in the Chamber. It is up to the Court to consider the amendments tabled. I would point out, however, that the amendments suggest that the whole dairy farming would have developed into soil-based farming and that this would not automatically have increased phosphate production. Phosphorus production has also increased significantly in land-based dairy farming, which has also grown significantly. We are dealing with a phosphate ceiling, i.e. a ceiling on the total production of phosphate in the Netherlands. This is done by any form of dairy farming, land-based or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u327	Both the members of the PvdA Group and the leaders of the PvdA House knew very well that if we did not set conditions on the front we would have problems today. It's now five to twelve. Does the Secretary of State have this problem in hand? Every day there is another message that farmers are extremely angry about this. I do not feel that the Secretary of State has any control over the problem of phosphate rights. Does the Secretary of State have any control over that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u328	What the government can do that my predecessor announced on 2 July 2015 is to keep phosphate production below a certain ceiling with rights. The consequence of that proposal was and is that from 2018 it is not possible to produce more than for which rights have been issued. This means that total production remains below the agreed ceiling. That's what the government can do on its own through regulation. The news is that the excess of the phosphate ceiling and the derogation is now taking place and also next year. The European Commission says that we must ensure that we reduce this production. A number of measures have been taken by industry to this end. We've discussed it with each other. I support it financially and legally. With this there is a package on the basis of which it is possible to reduce phosphate production below the ceiling next year. The implementation of this is also dependent on the measures taken by the industry itself. If the business community does what it has agreed to do, then the business community itself will have a great interest in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u329	Mrs Lodders has once again raised a point of order. That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u330	Mrs Koşer Kaya is challenging me to start the debate. In my first-term contribution, I said that this debate for next week was on the draft schedule. In the meantime, we have received a revised schedule on which this debate is again scheduled for next Thursday at 5 p.m. I am not going to deal with the debate here today. Firstly, I think the debate is far too important, and secondly, the people who are concerned do not take account of the fact that the debate is being held here today. That is why I will not be having the debate here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u331	Are you making an order proposal not to discuss this part today? Or are you merely expressing an opinion that relates to order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u332	It is an opinion that I am putting forward because it relates to order. I'm being challenged. We are now having a debate here which is scheduled for next week. People know that the debate will be held next week. That is why I am not going to go into the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u333	I can only say to the other Members that this is the feeling of Mrs Lodders. You can or do not take that into account; that is up to you. In general, I would ask you to pay attention to the time, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u334	We will indeed be discussing this in substance next week, but I am concerned. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if he's in control. I don't have that feeling, and he doesn't offer that certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u335	Anyway, you need that debate, too, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u336	I think it is very good that we are having the debate on this now. Next week's debate will focus on the actual proposals put forward by the Secretary of State, on the technology behind them and the like, but a budget debate is the perfect time to talk about the general principle and how it came about. It is to the credit of the Secretary of State that, looking back, he admits that there is a serious administrative error here. This means, in my view, I ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with me that we have one thing to discuss evaluatively. I am very curious, for example, what the PBL and the LEI, looking back on their reports from 2013, would say now. Has that really been the only and most crucial signal? I know that I repeatedly warned here in the Chamber in 2011 that this phenomenon would occur. Then I was put away a little bit like a doomthinker. I said at the time that I expected it to go wrong somewhere in 2015 or 2016. I can say that I have never predicted the future as purely as I hope it will remain, because it does not cheer you up, but at least in 2011 I had a lot of signals, including in the form of reports from the PBL, which did warn about the consequences of growing milk production. Then where did that weird switch come from? I'm very curious about that. Would the Secretary of State wish to put a proper question to these research institutes in order to review and review what has happened here and who has made what mistakes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u337	Just because something doesn't work out like you expected three years ago doesn't always mean that mistakes have been made. It may also mean that the market has started to behave differently than the scientists had expected on the basis of all their knowledge and insights. That's, I think, what happened. The LEI and the PBL are independent institutions. They should also be able to advise independently. The fact that they look back at this and wonder how they came to that assessment at the time and why things turned out differently seems to me to be very interesting for their work, but it seems less relevant to the question of what we stand for. We are dealing with the situation as it is today, and on that basis we must act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u338	I do not agree with the Secretary of State, because that means that the ball is, by definition, removed from the political playing field. I'm curious to hear the rebuttal of these institutions. I would not be surprised if there were very different answers, in the sense that we have made very clear about this and that, but if we do not comply with the terms under which we thought we could make something happen, I am thinking, for example, of the lack of regulation on the transport track; that is simply not regulated, then things are going wrong. That is what we had written, and it is now apparent. Who left what business here? For me, it is not certain at all that it has just been a false scientific assessment coming out of nowhere. I think there has indeed been an intensive lobby, from the outset, fed by the agricultural sector itself, by LTO Nederland itself, who once again did not serve its own supporters, in order to achieve this, with the result that after the abolition of milk quotas, three legal regulations were rolled over and we are working on the fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u339	This was more a view of Mr Grashoff than a question to me. He noted that the market had developed differently from what had been estimated at the time. On the basis of this assessment, policy has been made by both the Cabinet and the Chamber, because a majority of the Chamber has, of course, taken decisions on all the proposals that were put forward at the time. The assessment of not only the scientists, but also the different sectors was that they could control it all. The growth of farms is funded by banks and is supported by dairy companies. Everyone saw that market growing. When it became clear that growth would run counter to environmental conditions or could go through them, my predecessor put forward proposals directly to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u340	You've told me that a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u341	I'd still like to make the people's voice heard. All the spokesmen have just received an e-mail from a lady who writes: what strikes me in this debate is that the Secretary of State constantly shields in his answers with committees, authorities, the Economic and Social Council, the Council of State and directors, but what is the government doing? I have been in the States General for ten years now and must honestly say that I get this kind of e-mail very often. The LEI, the Agriculture Economic Institute, has also been mentioned. Just now, in response to my interruption, it was said that I should be with Minister Van der Steur of Security and Justice, while Minister Van der Steur says that I should be with Secretary of State Van Dam. People notice that, too. We can't work like this, can we? I really think the government should be more autonomous to us as a chamber. I think that this lady, who sent an e-mail to all the spokesmen here, is right. I just wanted to say that for the Acts, for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u342	But you don't ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u343	It would be very nice if the Secretary of State would respond to this. This is what lives among people. That lady literally refers to the word "ringelors." Everything gets cut off, everything gets beaten to death. We're not getting anywhere, really. Soon all the motions will be dissuaded again. We're here on behalf of the people. I believe that a Secretary of State or Minister also has a responsibility of his own. It's an autonomous function, in which you can't hide behind everything all the time. I think this lady is absolutely right. I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u344	As chairman of this meeting, I note that the Secretary of State gives answers, that difficult questions are asked and that in some respects he disagrees with the questioners. It's called, I think, a debate. I think we're feeding it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u345	I would like to respond to what Mr Graus says. He is right to say that the cabinet is responsible for its own decisions. That's right. At the time, the cabinet decided not to take any measures to restrict production. I am merely explaining how my predecessor came to that conclusion at the time. I'll answer for that in the Chamber today and next week. It has made that decision on the basis of scientific studies. That decision was simply the responsibility of the cabinet. Let that be clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u346	Mr. Graus, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u347	It's about the whole night. I didn't want to make the final point. That's how the people see how we work here. That's kind of sad. We are fighting bureaucracy like this. People also expect a Secretary of State or a Minister to be more forceful, that when we ask a question, it is said, "Okay, I'm gonna take care of it," or "I'm not gonna take care of it." It should not be said every time: but that is what the committee does, that is what the LEI does, that is what the ESC does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u348	You'd already made that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u349	Yeah, but that's what it's about. It's not the last point the Secretary of State mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u350	As a ruler, you have to make decisions. It's not unusual for you to ask expert advice. That's what this is all about. That is what Mr Graus mentioned in the other examples. The ESC has set up a committee containing a number of experts, a number of outsiders and stakeholders, to advise on the future of livestock farming. It is our responsibility as politicians to decide what to do with such advice. On the one hand, these are the members of the cabinet in this business, and on the other hand, they are the members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u351	I conclude that the predictive gift in the Lower House today is very high. The Secretary of State also shares this view, because a few hours ago he accused previous Cabinets of being under or on the poverty line for pig farmers. So the Secretary of State also has predictive powers. That's why I have a question for him. I asked in the first place whether the Chamber could be better involved in the involvement of the Secretary of State in Brussels in European decision-making on the sector's action plan. This concerns phosphate rights and the introduction of phosphate rights in the Sixth Action Programme. I get an incredibly brief and very reluctant written response from the Secretary of State. Does he realise that the Chamber, but also many dairy farmers, have a strong feeling that they have not done enough to reach an agreement on the phosphate rights system as laid down in Brussels? Does the Secretary of State realize that the Chamber now wants a finger on the wrist?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u352	Mr Geurts says he wants to be involved in that process. I'm just gonna get the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u353	I can help the Secretary of State. He has in that answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u354	The Secretary of State spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u355	The Court will receive this year's commitment to the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme. I will then inform the Chamber before the summer recess about the progress of the process and the discussions on it. I am therefore very aware of your desire to be closely involved and to be able to talk about this commitment to the Sixth Action Programme. So I am also very aware that the Chamber wants to keep a finger on the pulse of these developments. In view of, among other things, the debate on the derogation and its importance, I also understand very well that the Court wants to be able to monitor its progress. I think that's quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u356	The CDA asked for a factual account in the written input on the phosphate rights system. When has the Secretary of State been in Brussels, who has he spoken to, when have the officials been there, who have they spoken to? In order to help Mrs Lodders, I would say that we want to have that story in order to be able to conduct the debate properly next week. I have a very specific question. Can we expect that story before next Thursday?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u357	I answered that question in the note on the basis of the further report. It says exactly when the Commission has been informed and when contact has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u358	We have asked a much broader question in our written contribution, namely: when was the Secretary of State in Brussels? Who did he talk to to get a good look at this whole process? If we want to have confidence in the future next week, we simply need it. So again the question: is the Secretary of State prepared to send a factual account to the Chamber, as is customary in other departments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u359	I believe, to my best knowledge, that I answered that question. I have told you exactly in time when the Commission has been informed about the plans for phosphate rights, when the Commission has been informed about how these plans are developing and when further discussions have been made with the Commission. I also indicated what was exchanged. I therefore believe that I gave you the entire history. If you have any further questions about this, I believe that this debate or next week's debate is the time to simply ask those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u360	I do not want to burden the debate with that next week. I need that information in advance. Very specific: there has been pre-identified and a notification has been made. I can't get anywhere out of the answers when that happened, how it turned out, et cetera. Let me give you an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u361	I fear that Mr Geurts is confusing things here. Notification shall be made on the technical measures. Then it is about the content of the proposal. What Mr Geurts is concerned with, I presume, is the Commission's assessment of the state aid aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u362	I am afraid that we are now entering a plenary debate in something that needs to be discussed in a procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u363	But it is an essential point, also for me. If you go into the country and if you read the documents, you will see that we will get technical information about when Brussels is informed by letter, but anyone who spends a little longer in The Hague and Brussels knows that the involvement of the Secretary of State himself and of his predecessor is essential to negotiate solutions at the highest level. The point is that phosphate is not really the problem at all. It's about groundwater quality. Discussions need to be held on the netting of exports in the phosphate ceiling. The point is to see what space there is in Brussels. Our impression, I am just saying directly, is that a lot has changed at official level, but not or hardly at the level of the Secretary of State. That's what we want to know. What has the Secretary of State himself done at what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u364	These are two different questions. A question is about content. I know Mr Dijkgraaf's views and I can go along with them for a long time. It's about water quality. It should be possible to deduct from the ceiling manure which we can prove to be outside Dutch agriculture. Those are all negotiations that are about to take place. We are talking about the Sixth Action Programme and the future derogation. What matters now is the current derogation. It simply has a production ceiling. The European Commission says that you made that appointment yourself ten years ago and you did not say earlier that you really want to get rid of it, so you have to keep that agreement. This is also important for the European Commission. It is said that we do not assume that the manure that you cannot dispose of on your own country does not actually end up on your own country. That is why we have introduced the compulsory manure treatment system. I have just said to you, on the course of the substantive discussions on the future derogation, that I am sending you the commitment to the next action programme for Christmas. There's gonna be a whole stretch. There are indeed many negotiations at official level. That's how it goes in Brussels. I'm coordinating it, because that's my responsibility. As soon as it is necessary, I will be there myself when it is discussed at political level. The other issue is that of state aid. I also think that what you are asking your questions about should be sharp: the substance or the state aid assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u365	It's the whole story that matters to me. I am concerned about state aid, which has gone wrong. I am concerned about the Sixth Action Programme. Did the Secretary of State once talk to Commissioner Hogan about things like: we are going in the wrong direction; there is a good solution, with which we really solve the environmental problem and the problem with water quality? And what did Hogan say to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u366	I have certainly spoken to Commissioner Hogan about this, but he is not responsible for it. That is Commissioner Vella, the Commissioner for the Environment. I have also spoken with him on several occasions about the manure dossier. As you know, it is not customary for me to tell the House the precise details, but of course I am also speaking to him about this. You must be aware that the substantive negotiations, including those from the Commission, are often conducted at official level. It is also the officials who assess the plans. I naturally try to make use of my contact with Commissioner Vella. You know that we have been President of the European Union for the first half of this year. For example, Mrs Koşer Kaya asked me how often I went to the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. I was in front of him myself, so I was there every month and in between we had several meetings, in which the Commissioners were also present. Of course, at times like that, sometimes informally, I talk to them about these kinds of developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u367	Mr Dijkgraaf, we have a second deadline on this. That's what I'm referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u368	Finally. That is what Mr Geurts is asking and what I insist on: we would need that overview, including for next week's debate. Otherwise, we will discuss it in detail next week. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u369	Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u370	Is the Secretary of State willing to send us that list? When did he talk to who about what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u371	He has already replied: no. I want to prevent us from sitting here repeating incredibly endlessly. I understand that you do not like the answer, Mr Dijkgraaf, but you have received an answer. The Secretary of State. A question has been asked to you. Maybe you can try to answer it after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u372	I told you, we met a lot more often than usual in that half year. It is precisely because of my role as chairman of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council that I came across the Commissioners Hogan, Vella and Andriukaitis on several occasions and sometimes we talked about developments informally. And no, it's not customary for me to inform the Chamber exactly about all these contacts. I'm not gonna do that either. In fact, I can't tell the Chamber any of the contacts when we've had a cup of coffee. What is relevant to the Chamber is the question of how the European Commission's assessment came about that the legislative proposal that was there would not be in line with the State aid frameworks. That, I believe, is what your questions are about. You were, I say to Mr Dijkgraaf, one of the two MPs who also said in the more detailed report: hey, that is actually a strange assessment, because the state aid frameworks are clear and should not apply at all. That is true, and that explains the difference of opinion between the Commission and us. It also explains why we were finally surprised at a late stage by the Commission's view, which does not correspond to the state aid frameworks in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u373	I wanted to close this point. Are there any questions at this point? Well, then I'd like to let it go. Can you agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u374	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u375	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u376	Mr President, it is not to be annoying, but we hear more and more noises that the Secretary of State has been very absent from this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u377	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u378	So it is not surprising that we want to know more precisely at what point in this dossier the Secretary of State himself coordinated, had his own input and who he spoke to. It is not complicated simply to make a timeline out of it and to express its commitment to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u379	Then what Mrs Koşer Kaya wants to know should be sharp. In her first term, she asked when I would be with the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. I'm always there in principle, and she knows it. These kinds of issues are not even discussed there. The question is what exactly does Mrs Koşer Kaya want to know about this state aid assessment? I would be happy to explain to the House today or next week exactly how that went.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u380	Your input, your presence, your coordination role in all of that. Then we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u381	Mrs Koşer Kaya can rest assured that, from the moment it was clear that there were objections to the compatibility with the State aid frameworks of our legislative proposal at the level of the European Commission, I have coordinated almost daily how we would deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u382	Mrs. Koşer Kaya, I am really going to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u383	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u384	Well, Mrs. Koşer Kaya!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u385	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u386	Mrs Koşer Kaya, I'm talking to you! Next week you will have the debate on phosphates and there you can ask all these questions. You have now heard three times from the Secretary of State that, for reasons which you consider reasonable or unreasonable, he is not going to tell you when he has had coffee with whom. That's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u387	Now I would like to make a personal comment, Mr President, a note, as it is called. I don't care who he's been drinking coffee with. I am concerned about this dossier, on this point, since March how he has been involved and what his role has been in it. It's not a complicated question and it's not a complicated situation. An overview of this can be sent with its specific role in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u388	Anyway, I'm responsible for every step of the process, whether I'm there myself or an employee of the department. I explained clearly in the note on the basis of the further report how these contacts have been conducted between the department and the Commission. That is why I ask Mrs Koşer Kaya what exactly she wants to know. In the first term, she wanted to know how often I went to the Agriculture and Fisheries Council and now she is asking a different kind of question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u389	No, Mrs Koşer Kaya, I will not give you the floor. I'm so sorry. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u390	It's the night of the look-back. Next week we will have a more extensive debate. When I look at where the sector is, I see a sector that had to miss the Ministry of Agriculture a few years ago. I see a sector that is out of control of the product, also by parties standing here tonight at the interrupting microphone and shouting out. I see a sector that is faced with stacking legislation, mandatory manure processing, soil-based growth, now phosphate rights again, and eventually, perhaps later, also loss of derogation. I think that is an incredibly worrying situation and I can very well imagine that the sector is asking whether this Secretary of State is running fast enough for this sector. Does he? What will the Secretary of State do to restore that confidence? A list like that is fine. I want to see that too. It helps to convince, but I particularly want to see actions in Brussels, for example that the Secretary of State says he is going to take care of it and that the derogation is going to come to pass in order to leave behind the period I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u391	As far as the derogation is concerned, I have already said twice in front of a Chamber full of dairy farmers, and Mrs Dik-Faber was present at one of those meetings, that I will fight for it with everything I have in mind, because I am more than convinced in substance that this derogation serves not only an economic interest but also an environmental interest. It also serves the importance of our beautiful landscape with green meadows and cows in the meadow. We all risk losing that, as well as the business model of small-scale family businesses. That is all at stake, and that is all linked to the derogation. We have a strong story to get that derogation, because the Commission is assessing the environmental significance and the achievement of the objectives of the Nitrate Directive. Mrs Dik-Faber also knows that nitrate values among derogation companies are fine. We can also show that in the Dutch situation manure is much better absorbed in the grass and that it is therefore also justified to apply more manure to Dutch grassland. The objectives set by the Commission are served by derogation. The environment is deteriorating when we wouldn't have it. I will therefore make every effort in Brussels to ensure that we keep it. We need to take an important step in this direction, and that is to keep the commitments we make with Brussels. We made those arrangements ourselves. These agreements were made not only by the Dutch government with the European Commission, but also by the Dutch sector. The fact that we have grown so hard and gone straight through the ceiling also means that this has created the risk of us being caught by the European Commission. In the extreme case, you can lose that exception position. We're gonna have to do everything we can to prevent that. The sector is now also taking responsibility for this. Let me say here that I find that commendable. I think it is commendable and I think it is extremely sensible. The importance of this for the sector is incredibly great. For my part, I'll do everything I can. The sector has now shown that there is also a willingness to do everything in its power to ensure that we can maintain that derogation. As far as I'm concerned, we're getting our hands together. First of all, we will make every effort in Brussels to ensure that the European Commission is convinced that we are doing enough to keep the agreements. Secondly, I would like to start the discussion on a derogation as soon as possible from 2018. Because our dairy farming, as well as our landscape and our economic model, is incredibly at stake. The Chamber can therefore count on me in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u392	Can I urge Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Ouwehand, who are now at the interrupting microphone, to have the rest of the debate on this in the debate on phosphate next week? I'm really suggesting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u393	As far as I'm concerned, that's fine. I hold on to what the Secretary of State said at the last minute. Indeed, we agree on a whole debate on what has happened and that it is important. But what we need is the conviction that the Secretary of State is really going to fight for the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u394	You bet!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u395	Next week. Can I also make the urgent appeal I have just made to Mrs Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u396	Yes, Mr. Chairman. You'll be surprised, but I support that. Since many Members of Parliament are already having the debate here, I would like to say that I agree with Mrs Lodders on this point; that does not happen very often. We are having the debate on this next week. However, Members of parliament who keep that line are now perhaps a bit missed by the people who are watching. So I would like to say that here. I also say that there are very few parties in this house without manure on their hands. So next week we will be able to discuss this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u397	Excellent. Let's move on to the animal welfare block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u398	I come to animal welfare and soil fertility. Let me stay on the subject and first talk about animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u399	I see a lot of angry faces among the members of the Chamber. I have the impression that it would be very much appreciated if I were to suspend now. Am I getting that right? Yes. Then we're gonna suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u400	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u401	There are some members who want to take the train home tonight. We're gonna try to make those members happy. I've said enough about this. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State, who has made a considerable contribution to his reply and has a few small points to discuss with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u402	The next block is about nature, which I wouldn't call a small point, but I was still in the block that is about sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u403	We were just done with that, but Mr Leenders has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u404	I suspect my question about the Animal Numbers and Public Health Act is still part of the previous block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u405	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u406	You're gonna come up with that? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u407	Animal welfare is coming now, then nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u408	I still have questions about soil fertility, animal welfare and the Animal Numbers Act. Let me just answer the questions in that order. Mr Geurts and Mrs Lodders asked about soil fertility. That is an incredibly important subject. I have been working with industry on a public-private partnership on sustainable soil, aimed at developing knowledge and drawing up measures. In dialogue with the various stakeholders, I will explore how sustainable soil management can be further promoted. Maintaining soil fertility and organic substances is primarily a direct interest for the farmer. The management of the farmer is very important in this respect, for example the construction plan, the reuse of crop residues, the use of green trees, the type of manure used including soil improvers and the amount of fertilisers that can be used. The manure policy laid down in the action programmes of the Nitrates Directive limits the amount of fertilisers that may be used. On the other matters I have just mentioned, the farmer is mostly his own decision. I also see increasing attention being paid to soil fertility, including among farmers. I think that's wise. In the light of the promotion of the circular economy, I am prepared to include the possibilities for the use of soil improvers in the implementation of the Sixth Action Programme in the framework of the Nitrates Directive. This must not be at the expense of water quality and achieving the objectives of the Nitrate Directive and the Water Framework Directive. I have understood Mr Geurts and Mrs Lodders' questions in such a way that they say: find the maximum space to use those soil improvers. I'd be happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u409	I actually made a very concrete proposal. My question was: can we examine the specific point of quality plus compost, without compromising the place for the farmer? That is the problem a farmer has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u410	I see this as part of my recent commitment to consider whether it is possible to include it, including in the next action programme. If compost contains fertilizers, and it generally does, it counts naturally. As I said, it should not ultimately be at the expense of water quality and thus of achieving the objectives of the Nitrate Directive and the Water Framework Directive. As long as it's possible in there, I'm willing to investigate the possibilities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u411	Mr Geurts had a slightly different question, in particular on the Sixth Action Programme. I very much support that, by the way. This concerns soil improvers who actually influence the placement space, because they may include fertilisers or phosphate and nitrogen. My proposal would be to see if, for example, you can allow plus quality compost with an x percentage, which is really minimal, to improve the soil, so that various substances are re-bound in the soil. As far as I am concerned, this is separate from the action programme, because the Netherlands can take this measure itself. It does not affect soil quality, because it is simply limited to a minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u412	I would like to say to Mrs Lodder that I would also like to look at the possibilities for this. I certainly see the importance of that. Mr Van Gerven and Mr Leenders asked about the animal numbers bill. In the past, there has been a lot of discussion about the concept of such a bill that has been published. I am now working on another bill that will look really different. In other words, there are opportunities for provinces to control the size and concentration of livestock farming, precisely because it is accompanied by adverse effects in some areas and the provinces currently have insufficient instruments to deal with them. It is therefore desirable that, in specific situations, those numbers should be used to support emission reduction and other measures. The legislative proposal is therefore substantially amended in relation to the legislative proposal that was previously in consultation. You could say it's actually a new bill. That's why I'm going to submit the bill to internet consultation. I think it is appropriate to do this again. The proposal is also submitted to the relevant authorities, such as the provinces that have to work with it. I'll inform the Chamber about the results. I aim to be able to present the bill to the Chamber after consultation by the Council of State for the summer of 2017. As has already been said, it must provide the provinces with sufficient instruments to be able to actually steer, as at least one province, I think, would like to see more of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u413	What does "soon" mean in the context of starting the internet consultation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u414	The internet consultation is really a matter for the cabinet. The law doesn't go to the Chamber. I hope it works this year. Otherwise, it'll be next year. I think that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u415	If the bill is submitted for consultation, is it with the agreement of the entire cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u416	Everything I do, I do on behalf of the cabinet. I don't quite understand this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u417	Let me explain my question. It's a draft bill. Has such a concept been passed by the cabinet before it is submitted for consultation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u418	A bill like this is always aligned with colleagues anyway. If it goes to the Council of State, it really has to be decided by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u419	Can I conclude, then, that there is broad agreement within the Cabinet on the new principles that you have set out? You say: spring 2017. That probably means a new cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u420	I said, for the summer. I do not know how fast the formation will go after the March elections. Whether there's a new cabinet before the summer, we need to see. There are pessimists who think it's gonna take a long time. I'm always optimistic. It is the strength of Dutch politics to quickly create a new cabinet. How long it takes exactly, we have to wait and see. I have sent a letter earlier, along with my fellow Secretary of State of I and M, also on behalf of the Minister of VWS. In this we respond to the research into livestock farming and the health of local residents. That gave us reason to take back the thread of the bill on animal numbers. The proposal will look different. It is my ambition to ensure that provinces in livestock-proof areas actually get the spatial tools to steer. This is ahead of the Environment Act and the instruments that come into it. We will be able to see for ourselves when the legislative proposal for consultation is made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u421	I ask everyone to be a little more compact, both with the question and with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u422	I'll do it as compact as I can, because I'd like to catch that train. This bill is for the provinces, to give them the opportunity to send. A number of provinces have said through the IPO that they do not like this law at all. The Secretary of State says that this bill also goes through the provinces in the consultation. I suppose it doesn't mean that the bill will not be presented to the House of Representatives if the majority of the provinces say: "Dear Secretary of State, we don't need this law?' After all, there are provinces of the province of North Brabant which I am thinking primarily of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u423	I can agree that the province of North Brabant does, but it is common for you to consult provinces when you introduce instruments that they can use. Mind you, I am not saying that they should use it; I am saying that they can use it. So that's what I'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u424	But if the majority of the provinces now say "we don't need that law," doesn't that have an effect on offering that bill to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u425	There is only one body in the Netherlands that can decide by majority whether it wants a law or not: that is the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u426	If the provinces now state that they do not need that law at all because they have sufficient instruments, why do we make a law on animal numbers? I just heard the case come by of a large stable with many pigs which, however, is convincing in terms of animal welfare. The number of animals does not say so much about the environment at all. It also depends on the way you keep them and so on. So I'm not so sure about that law yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u427	No, but we can't, because Mrs Dik-Faber hasn't seen the bill yet. It is therefore not possible to be convinced. I would like to say to her: look at the bill as soon as it is offered for consultation. I am concerned that provinces should have the opportunity to steer in cattle-proof areas. They don't have them now. They don't get it with the Environment Act as it looks at the moment. There is certainly a great need for such instruments in the province of North Brabant to be able to do so. Of course, not every province has the same problem. So there will also be the necessary provinces which do not have this problem and which say: we do not really need these instruments and we are not going to use them. But yes, I have a hammer in my closet and I don't use it every day either, but sometimes it's handy that it's there when I need it. This bill also serves that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u428	I have a hammer, too. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u429	You use it when you need it; the signal was clear, President. The necessary questions have been asked about animal welfare. We've been through this a little bit. Mrs Thieme thus expressed her doubts about the policy of this cabinet. I dare say here that the Netherlands is really at the forefront compared to many other European countries. It has taken steps that have not been taken elsewhere. This has everything to do with the role of Dutch supermarkets. They have said that by 2020 they have replaced all regular pork and poultry meat produced by more animal-friendly meat. This is already the case in a number of supermarkets this year. The supermarkets are not only switching to, for example, meat with one star of the Better Life label in relation to fresh meat; they are also working on this with regard to meat products. At the end of this year Albert Heijn was completely switched to meat products from pork with one star of the Better Life label. That's unique. It's driven by the market. The market actually goes beyond what the regulation requires. Mr Van der Velde asked about the Model Sustainable Cattle Farming, but I have already gone into that. In addition to the Better Life label, there have been other examples in which there has been cooperation between industry, animal protection and the government. This has been the case with regard to castration, the forthcoming ban on beak treatment in laying hens and the step-by-step plan to avoid the gradual and responsible copping of tails in pigs. The responsible omission of physical interventions leads to strong animal welfare improvements and to an essential adaptation of the keeping of animals. That doesn't change the fact that it doesn't happen on its own. We have just discussed the ESC opinion. In Europe, we are working with Denmark, Germany and Sweden to improve animal welfare in Europe. As I said earlier, Belgium agrees. We have jointly asked the European Commission to establish a platform for animal welfare, in which animal welfare issues can be discussed. Mr Van der Velde asked me to give this priority and to ensure that the EU keeps pace. At the last Agriculture and Fisheries Council, I urged the European Commission to do so. That was not even necessary because the Commission itself said: we are now working on it quickly; the platform will be set up early next year and the issues provided by the Member States will be discussed in it. The Commission is taking steps in this direction, but I also raised this issue in the last Agriculture and Fisheries Council. So much for the block on sustainability. Then I come to the last block: Dutch nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u430	Mr Graus has a pressing question on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u431	I have asked several questions about animal welfare which have only been answered in writing. Well, that's a problem, so if you'll allow me...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u432	Of course I'll let you. It is an integral part of the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u433	First of all, my request for a veterinary forensic team. The Secretary of State replies that it is happening at the NFI, but it is not. They don't even have the veterinary knowledge there. My question is this. We really want a forensic team and I think I can expect a great deal of support from the Chamber after the presentation last week from the veterinary forensic team. These people not only detect animal executioners and not only raise the criminal record, but they have also detected a very serious virus in rats. What the whole NFI didn't do, those two people do. We cannot leave them to their fate and let them mess around in their spare time. Do me a favor, I'll ask through the chairman, and help us with it. I will pass an amendment for €871,000, making it an independent team, but I prefer it to be part of the veterinary section of the NFI and VU, making them somewhat independent from the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u434	The Secretary of State could also answer this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u435	I've got it by hand. I know that Mr Graus finds it annoying that I say it again, but the primary responsibility really lies with the Minister of Security and Justice, who deals with this. I don't know, a veterinary forensic team, independent of the Justice Department. The NFI does its substantive work independently, but that is also the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. That goes for this too. I've assessed the grant application together with the Minister of Justice, but we didn't think it was appropriate to honor it. However, the foundation may receive compensation for a specific investigation at the time when the public prosecutor would like to deploy the foundation. That may be true, but that decision is up to the State at the moment when capacity and expertise may not be available at the NFI. The NFI is indeed the appropriate institution to conduct such an investigation, but if the D.A. concludes that that expertise is not there, then the D.A. can hire this foundation to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u436	The Netherlands Forensic Institute has completely stopped animal research since the disaster with the MH17. Everyone understands that because there was a very high priority, but there is no knowledge and skill. Thank you for the commitment, but the reason for my request to include it in part in the VU and partly in the Ministry of Security and Justice is precisely to guarantee independence. The NVWA, which does indeed belong to you, can also benefit from this. They have already noticed so many other things, such as placing rat traps underwater. Should they be placed horizontally or vertically so that the animals suffer less? That's what they've been investigating. Turns out the rat traps were misplaced. That's how so many extra things have been done. They found a virus that was contagious to humans, and we can't just ignore it. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u437	Mr Graus gives me to talk to the Minister responsible about the capacity and commitment of the NFI. I will also draw attention to the fact that the foundation could be hired in case the expertise itself is not available. But that is something other than the structural financing of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u438	I have two other questions which were also answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u439	But only if you really keep it shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u440	About the Stable Safe system, so the escape routes for animals related to a stable fire, the Secretary of State writes that it is useful for horse stables, but not yet functional in pigs stables. Those escape routes were only tested for pigs. That's what they're designed for. That's why I'm asking you to help with facilitating, together with LTO, the insurance companies and the national fire department. The Secretary of State could just put a little more pressure on a field trial with a test stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u441	I will contact Mr Graus outside the sitting for a moment, because my information is that the system is useful for horse stables, but not yet functional in pig stables and that a field test is indeed being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u442	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u443	If his information is different, we need to put it next to each other. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u444	Maybe in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u445	Yes, or outside this sitting, because it is a point on which Mr Graus often comes back. I took a good look at it. According to my information, it's primarily for horse stables. It's now being examined to see if it can be used for pig stables.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u446	Any last words?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u447	My final point concerns the National Inspection Service for Animal Protection (LID). We have to be honest about it. People from the animal police have been posted, and some of them also go back to the animal police. The animal police handle cases that fall under Security and Justice, including administrative matters. I have heard that the Member is doing tens of percent of the cases, and I have also done research into this which publishes in the we form and then says: give us money, because we have saved so many animals. Of course you can't. With all due respect, if the animal police do the work, they must also be given the credit and then the money must go there. My question is whether, in the longer term, we will not be able to partially accommodate some of the good Member States with the NVWA and let the posted go back to the animal police. Let's stop with that slowing down factor in between, because it really doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u448	I also replied in writing that I do not recognize the picture that the Member is delaying. If I understand correctly, Mr Graus is more concerned with how the Member reports on the work he has done. So far, I am very pleased with the way in which this work has been divided, but this overall division of tasks is being reviewed by the Minister of Justice and myself. I will take this observation of Mr Graus with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u449	Now let's move on to the subject of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u450	Mr. Chairman. Nature. It was wonderful to see how proud the Netherlands is of nature and how much people wanted to share it with each other. The public election of the most beautiful nature reserve in the Netherlands showed the great involvement of the Dutch. We had previously thought with all the experts in such elections that it would be fantastic if we managed to get 50,000 voters, but nearly 90,000 people voted. In the run-up to the public election, I visited twelve of the thirteen nominated beautiful nature parks throughout the country in one day. It's not advisable, but you can. The beauty of it, if you do it in one day, is that you immediately get an idea of how varied Dutch nature is. Where on earth do you find twelve totally different areas in such a small piece of land, all of which can measure themselves with international beautiful nature? It was not feasible to visit Saba in that same day, so I was able to admire that live, digitally. I have been able to see in all those areas with how much dedication and passion nature is being worked on. There are many other areas that have submitted a plan. In the first place, Mr Grashoff and Mrs Ouwehand asked a few critical questions about this election, namely whether it was about increasing nature. Almost all of the bidbooks submitted dealt with increasing areas and zoning of recreational pressures, which, on the contrary, kept vulnerable parts better protected, or. to be better protected. This contributes precisely to making nature more robust. It was not for nothing one of the conditions that was imposed. The jury, led by Professor Pieter van Vollenhoven, also tested this: they would actually ensure that nature would be better protected by the plan in those areas. The election therefore has no losers, as was suggested. The energy that has been released is important for all nature reserves in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u451	Can I ask Members to do so in the hallway if they wish to have a discussion with each other? Mr Leenders, the Secretary of State is responding. Please continue, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u452	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The most important thing is that positive energy has been released into the natural world in recent months. There hasn't been one in a while. New plans have been made. Nature reserves are connected. Nature and landscape are connected. Nature and culture are connected. There has been so much enthusiasm that people see that there are opportunities to develop nature and let it go hand in hand with new economic opportunities. That was precisely the essence of the nature policy that this cabinet has put in place: not to protect nature from society, but to protect nature together with society by letting society experience that nature is not only an obstacle to economic development, but that it can also be used for economic development. In this respect, a new wind has started to blow in the natural world of the Netherlands. I sincerely hope and am convinced that my successor will build on this in another cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u453	Do you have anything else to report on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u454	I have much more to say about nature, because many more questions have been asked. This was about the nature election.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u455	I object to the presentation of cases given by the Secretary of State here. The Secretary of State says that society is once again enthusiastic about nature and that society understands that nature does not have to counteract economic developments. However, society was already enthusiastic about nature. This is evident from the State Secretary's own investigation. 93% say nature must be protected and two thirds say nature is more important than economy. Those who are caught up by the Secretary of State are the people from livestock farming and intensive farming. They are indeed in breach of nature conservation rules. But that does not give the Secretary of State the right to pretend that society suffers from nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u456	I haven't said that at any time. The results that Mrs Ouwehand cites are beautiful, aren't they? Isn't it wonderful to see that there is so much support for nature? It hasn't been so long since there was a cabinet in this class that said nature was just a left-wing hobby. Nature belongs to all of us and to all of us. I am glad that I have been able to contribute to the fact that this has become clear, that there is so much enthusiasm about our nature. What I said was that it also had a positive effect, especially in the natural world itself. Because this was the case under the previous cabinet, of course people have not become much more optimistic about the social anchoring of nature. They have now shown that it is possible to draw up new plans in which you connect the different values. Can I give you one example? In Friesland, a connection has been made between real nature areas, "hard nature," that's what I call it, and the cultural landscape. It was formed partly by the dairy farming in Friesland. Green landscapes, lots of water in between: Mrs Ouwehand knows it. This shows that there are new opportunities, also in Friesland, also in the countryside of Friesland, which are created partly thanks to nature. By connecting the areas together, farmers also have new opportunities to keep the country beautiful and green and invest in nature and meadow birds. That is what is happening very strongly there. In addition, it also leads to a strengthening of tourism. This can also contribute to local communities and to economic income models in rural areas. It shows that there are other options than just the further intensification of livestock farming. It has therefore also had a positive effect on the agenda which Mrs Ouwehand considers important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u457	Sure, but I'm not denying that either. The funny thing is that there are no elephants in the Netherlands, but we do have one. It's right here in this room. Nature can be helped in all kinds of ways, but it gets a little weird if you don't address those great threats to nature. The Secretary of State knows what we're gonna talk about next week. Fertiliser production is a tragedy, as is the use of agricultural poison. These are all such great threats to nature that you are not going to make up for this with the commitment to the nature of the Secretary of State, whom I do appreciate, by the way. If you don't address that, if you don't handle it, there will be a negative balance for nature at the bottom of the line. That is a pity, because I can see that the Secretary of State does have a green heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u458	Certainly, but I also note that some of these threats have been slowed down during this period and that the decline in biodiversity, including in the Netherlands, has come to a halt. That doesn't mean we're already here. In fact, much biodiversity needs to grow again; it needs to get better. We will really have to do what we have to do, including in the years to come. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u459	I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to nature and agricultural activities. I am convinced with him that this can go hand in hand: a farmer works with natural material and needs nature to achieve a good production. Where it doesn't go hand in hand, is in the most beautiful nature reserve in our country. Frisia got a new license to win salt until 2052. Today, the press release came in that the unexplained bottom descent in the Wadden region was caused by gas extraction. Shouldn't we have an intrusive conversation with the secretary of state's office in the Ministry, to see how we can slow down the economic activities that really pose a threat to nature, the production of gas and salt in the Wadden region?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u460	Any economic activity in a nature reserve must be authorised. For this we check whether there is a possible significant deterioration of nature. If the answer is 'yes', no authorisation is granted and no authorisation is given for that activity. This also applies, for example, to gas extraction. At Schiermonnikoog, about which it was mentioned earlier, all this was tested, precisely from the nature department of the department. Only if they say that it is happening in a way that does not lead to a significant deterioration of nature can my colleague, the minister in the department, give his consent. The debate on the desirability of this is being held with the Chamber, but the nature test is being carried out by us, under my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u461	You have another supplementary question, Mrs Dik?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u462	Yes, I have another supplementary question. Review and monitoring shall be carried out. Just today the news came in that there has been an unexplained descent in the Wadden region on the basis of that review. I purposely inform the Secretary of State for Nature, because the Wadden area is the most beautiful nature reserve in our country. I know that this is a matter for the Secretary of State and I believe that there should be one policy from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u463	For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that there is one policy. Nature must not be significantly affected by economic activities in the area. I have not yet seen the message to which Mrs Dik refers. So I can't judge that either. If there are signs that this is related, for example, to the extraction of salt or gas, and the economic activities could have effects in this area, we will, of course, look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u464	There is an agreement between the human world that deals with culture and the human world that deals with nature: they are so powerful and enthusiastic that even if they are in tribulation for years, there is still enthusiasm. That is not the policy of this cabinet. Nor is that due to the policy of the previous cabinet. I will not put this Secretary of State on the spot. It was the nature destruction duo Bleker and Koopmans of CDA-house; that cannot be called often enough. Anyway, according to all reports, we are in bad shape in the Netherlands: 4% of the habitats are in a favourable conservation state, 23% of the species are only in favourable conservation condition. Then where does the Secretary of State get that optimism from? I must also note that this cabinet has only made up for a very small part of Bleker's budget cuts. And when this cabinet settled a billion and a half new policy money in the 2017 budget, zero euros were reserved for nature. Would the Secretary of State care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u465	This was the next question I wanted to answer anyway. Mr Grashoff asked what the results of this cabinet had been. Mrs Koşer Kaya also asked about this. Mr Grashoff says that this cabinet has only invested a little extra in nature. No, this cabinet has invested an additional EUR 200 million in nature compared to the previous cabinet per year. This ensured the management of existing nature reserves and allowed thousands of hectares of new nature to be built. This was demonstrated, for example, by the first progress report of the Natural Pact. I expect to be able to send the House the second progress report this year, with more nature being realized by the provinces. This means a substantial difference for nature organisations and for nature. This progress report will also address the system for calculating the number of hectares of nature, which we spoke about last year. Besides the image of nature in the progress report, the question is how nature itself is doing. In other words, what are the effects of all transactions? The Review of the Environment of September of last year's PBL, the Planning Office for the Environment, shows that there are cautious signs of recovery and that nature is better placed. I certainly agree with Mr Grashoff that there are still vulnerable species and habitats. For this purpose, recovery measures have been agreed with the provinces, including through the additional investment of EUR 200 million per year. Indeed, it will take a few more years for these measures to take effect. In the upcoming review of the Natural Pact, to be published in January 2017, the PBL will report on this. Maybe I can go straight to Mr Van Gerven's question about the main ecological structure and the promised mid-term review for 2016. I have made agreements with the provinces about the realization of what we now call the "Nature Network Netherlands." So we no longer call it "ecological structure," but "Nature Network Netherlands." That must have been fully achieved by 2027. One part of this is the realization of natural connections and an extension of the network by 80,000 hectares. This is the elaboration of the passage in the coalition agreement on the realization of the ecological head structure. Indeed, this is being done a little longer than was previously foreseen, but we are still on course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u466	This picture is a little too optimistic for me. The fact that, after years of severe decline, it is now possible to measure a certain recovery in the decline of some of the natural goals, cannot be presented as the ultimate success? The Netherlands Nature Network has been adjusted downwards by this cabinet in relation to its original ambitions. To put it this way: after Bleker it was slightly adjusted upwards, but actually only half. And it'll take us another seven years. These aren't real ambitions, are they? Isn't it true that those reports with the rather bad figures are right with the reduced ambition and with the non-releasing of really enough extra resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u467	I would like to take Mr Grashoff back to the beginning of this cabinet. That was indeed two years after the Rutte/Wilders/Verhagen cabinet. That cabinet shone nature among the left-wing hobbies, as if nature in the Netherlands is not ours all. That cabinet indeed put the knife in the budgets for nature, far too much. At a time when much more had to be saved because of the economic crisis, the cabinet chose to go against this direction in additional budget for nature. In those circumstances, could we return to the budget as it was before in one period? No. Could we live up to the ambitions we had before, with a more limited budget than in the years before? No. The cabinet wanted to ensure that we would at least get back on track. We added 200 million a year. This means that at the end of this cabinet period about an additional billion will be invested in nature. That would not have happened if the previous cabinet had ruled. This has meant that we have been able to realize more nature and that we have also been able to protect existing nature as well as possible. Is this the nature in the Netherlands at the level that Mr Grashoff wants and that I too would like? No, that takes years of policy. I hope that another cabinet will continue this line and that we will never return to a situation where nature is so politicised as was the case under the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u468	I had to observe that under this cabinet about one third of Bleker's cuts were initially reversed. I must also note that this year's cabinet, while EUR 1.5 billion was available for new policies, wanted to allocate EUR zero extra for nature. That is a question of political priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u469	Politics is sometimes also a matter of boarding when a previous cabinet had taken measures that would have been disastrous for nature. The present cabinet has ensured that this has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u470	This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u471	So was Mr Grashoff's question. I understand that Mr Grashoff would like to present a negative and gloomy picture here, but I do not think that this is the reality. I too have more ambitions than we could achieve in this cabinet period. It's up to another cabinet to do that. I hope that the next cabinet will continue along the lines set out by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u472	For history it is important to go back to the moment when this cabinet took office. At that time, Mr Rutte, our Prime Minister, was presented with what would happen to the main ecological structure or the Dutch Nature Network. His solemn promise was that this network would be built as a whole. But what happened? There is now an area the size of 50,000 football fields less. The target was 728,000 ha and it is now 680,000 ha. Does the Secretary of State recognise that the promise made by the Prime Minister at the beginning of the Rutte II cabinet's reign has not been fulfilled and is not being fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u473	I have said earlier that Mr Van Gerven will be given an explanation of what is being done together with the provinces on the basis of which he can make all the comparisons with hectares. In the next progress report, which Mr Van Gerven will probably receive this year, he can make the comparisons he likes to make in every debate. That progress report shows the exact number of hectares. Relevant is that the Nature Network Netherlands is being realized. This means that necessary links must be established between the "hard" nature reserves, the real natural cores, in order to create ecological zones that further strengthen species and habitat. That's what happens and that's why the cabinet set the route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u474	That is not an answer to my specific question. Does the Secretary of State recognise that Prime Minister Rutte said that the entire Nature Network Netherlands will be realized, namely 728,000 ha, including connecting areas? This has also been confirmed by the then spokesmen, Mrs Jacobi of the PvdA and others. Then it was said that this was the explicit purpose, including the connecting zones. However, it has to be noted that, for example, an important connecting area such as the Oostvaarder's Wold is not being realized, which has even been completely cancelled, and that at least the objective of achieving at least 728,000 ha has been achieved, according to the original plan of 1990, on a smaller number of hectares. Then the cabinet won't keep its promise, will it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u475	This is always about calculating the exact number of hectares and comparing the sum of one moment to the sum of the other. So far Mr Van Gerven has come back to this in every debate on nature. Each time I gave him the answer that we are working with the provinces on a system based on which we can clearly map how many hectares are covered by the Dutch Nature Network, so that Mr Van Gerven can make the comparison sum he has so long wanted to make. Apart from that, I repeat that I do not think that the debate on the exact quantity of hectares is the most relevant. It's about creating connecting zones. This is in the plans for the Dutch Nature Network, which have been agreed with the provinces. The network will be expanded by 80,000 hectares in order to achieve these connecting zones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u476	Mr Van Gerven may think otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u477	I believe that nature development is about quality and not quantity. The Rutte I cabinet is portrayed as a bunch of natural barbarians, but that has been the cabinet that started steering on quality rather than quantity. The attitude of caterpillar-never-satisfied, which shows a number of parties in the Chamber, does not contribute to this. Perhaps the Secretary of State will come to that, but I would now like an answer to my question. Data from the Ecological Monitoring Network show that there is an increase for all species: for waterbirds it is 74%, for amphibians it is 62% and for butterflies it is 28%. Of course some animal or plant species are in a dip, but overall there is an increase. We should be a little bit proud of that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u478	I ask the Secretary of State to reply and then finish his whole block. Then I'll give room for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u479	I myself said that there are cautious signs of recovery. However, this does not mean that all species and all nature reserves are doing just as well. There are still vulnerable species. Last week we talked about the meadow birds. Unfortunately, this does not apply to such rosy percentages as Mrs Lodder just gave. So much remains to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u480	I'm assuming I can finish my interruption. Of course there are species that are in a dip; I also indicated that. A debate has been held on the meadow birds. This showed that the dip in numbers has to do with a number of factors that are not due to the developments that have just been outlined here. Again, for the waterbirds, the increase is 74% and for the amphibians, the increase is 62%, in species. Let us be a little proud of what we are achieving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u481	I suspect it is not about the number of species in the Netherlands, but about the number of animals. Mrs Lodders is happy to give me the figures on which she bases herself. I base myself on the Balance of the Environment of the PBL. It's very recent, from last September. This balance clearly shows that there are cautious signs of recovery, and nature is somewhat better off, but there are still many vulnerable species and habitats, for which a recovery policy will have to be pursued in the coming years. As I said, I hope that the debate on nature will not be politicised as it has been in the past. I am assuming that I understand a little from Mrs Lodder's interruption that nature is widely found and embraced in the Chamber and that we want to take on board the further recovery and development. More has happened in this cabinet period than I just said. I'm going back to the question about the results. We had to identify 160 Natura 2000 sites. In the meantime, 158 have been identified. I expect to be able to put the last two indications into procedure this month: Krammer-Volkerak and Zoommer. That is a very important milestone for nature management, because then all areas are designated. The next step is to complete the management plans. For one third of the 160 areas to be designated, the management plan has now been finally adopted. Most of the rest are now in procedure. So we are also on course in this respect. I continue to work with the provinces to ensure that the other management plans can also be adopted in the short term. Also an important result of this cabinet period is the new Nature Protection Act which will enter into force on 1 January 2017. This gives the provinces all the powers they need to carry out nature management. Questions have been asked about agricultural nature management, meadow birds and nature-inclusive agriculture. A transition is needed to a farm run that integrates the role and careful handling of nature and biodiversity. This is primarily a movement that needs to take shape in society, but the government tries to facilitate that movement as much as possible. It seeks to enable agricultural entrepreneurs and their business environments and to encourage them to start producing including nature. It is my ambition that the Netherlands will take the lead in this development. The challenge is to integrate nature and biodiversity into business management in a cost-effective way. It is a form of corporate social responsibility and, like any entrepreneurship, calls for an underlying earning model. I therefore wholeheartedly support the desire to develop nature-inclusive agriculture as suggested by Mr Leenders and Mr Grashoff in the first term. This development is a long-term issue. The transition will have to be made primarily by the sector, but the Empire will support and stimulate that movement wherever possible. In last Monday's progress letter, I indicated how I would do that. I will inform the Chamber about the summer of 2017 which scenarios can be sketched in the design of this transition and how this transition is related to the different pathways aimed at making agriculture more sustainable. Among other things, I am committed to the management of agriculture and to the greening of the common agricultural policy. The new system for agricultural nature and landscape management started on 1 January this year. This also promotes biodiversity on the farmland through the use of agricultural collectives. Its direction lies with the provinces. Last week we discussed this extensively when it was about the meadow birds, the peasant birds, as they were also mentioned here in the Chamber. The system is a clear improvement on previous agricultural nature management, which is followed not only by the Netherlands but also by the European Commission, for example. We are far from there, and we discussed this last week, but with the introduction of that new system we have hopefully put in place a system that will be much more effective than the previous one. We will support the system with a trajectory called "Manage Learning." With this we also want to support farmers, other administrators and volunteers who do the field in order to do this as well as possible. Mrs Lodders made a number of comments on State forestry management. She made the suggestion to issue shares in name. Mrs Lodder said that it was not a direct share on which to make a big profit, but a share in nature and leisure. This is therefore a share in which the involvement and investment in nature are central. She asked if I am prepared to prepare a plan for this and to start this as a test in some nature reserves. I welcome the fact that her suggestion is about how to further strengthen the social involvement of citizens in the nature of State forestry. I am very much in favour of that. State forest management also gives substance to this. State forestry management has an advisory board in which users of the areas of State forestry are represented. User groups are active in various nature areas. State forestry has also recently created a youth council. I took the first advice. Through the recently established Foreign Fund, individuals can already contribute to projects of State Forest Management for which no regular funding is available. The possibility of financial participation in State forestry projects thus exists. In addition, state forest management became associated with 6,000 volunteers, 5,000 farmers and 800 people with a distance from the labour market. So you can see that State Forestry is trying to involve as many people as possible in the work they do. In my opinion, Mrs Lodders is clearly concerned with this involvement and, in a transferable sense, I hope, with social ownership. What I wouldn't get excited about is if she meant private ownership, which is that you actually become co-owner of a project. That is a bit what the term "share" implies. I think that does not fit in with the public position of State forestry. What I would like to be prepared to do is, together with State Forest Management, to think through the External Fund about what other forms would be conceivable to further increase the involvement, in line with what Mrs Lodders has proposed. I'd be happy to tell her. It may be slightly different from what she has proposed, but I think it is in the same vein. I come to the questions put by Mr Leenders and Mrs Dik-Faber on sheep cattle. The financial position of sheepherds is sometimes poignant, as research also shows. They have a social added value, both for the preservation of biodiversity and for cultural historical values. That is why I took the initiative this year to consult with the provinces, land managers and other interested parties in order to find solutions together. In addition, with a view to a structural solution, I have provided the Guild of Traditional Sheepherders with a grant of €147.525 for the development of heath farms. I believe that this initiative can be a good start. There's a lot of interest in the concept. The conversations I have with provinces, Rijkswaterstaat, Staatsbosbeheer and Natuurmonumenten about an optimal area-oriented solution for shackled sheep cattle have not yet been completed, so I will continue to do so in 2017. It is my ambition to work together with the provinces to create a viable sector, which is well anchored in both nature management and cultural history. However, the primary responsibility for solving the financing problem lies with the provinces. Both Mr Geurts and Mr Leenders have asked questions about nature volunteers. Both Members have asked for their support. This was also the subject of this budget debate last year. As I indicated in the progress letter of 21 November, the Empire, the IPO and nature organisations are working on a joint programme to make green volunteering future-proof. That consultation is progressing constructively. I've informed you of that. The challenge lies in the ability of existing organisations to connect with the green volunteers in a contemporary way. That battle requires the support of the Empire and provinces. Then it is up to the organisations themselves and the provinces to keep the green volunteering vital. I am prepared to make a temporary financial contribution to this programme. This requires more clarity about the content of the programme, as well as the commitment of the nature organisations themselves and the provinces. The outline of the programme is expected to be completed early next year. On this basis, decisions can be taken on the contribution of the Empire, the provinces and the organisations. Mr. Chairman. I've answered all the questions. Then I come with your approval to the amendments. I suspect that it may be relevant for the second period to have a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u482	I ask Members to intervene briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u483	I asked the Secretary of State about the 64 protected natural monuments. He replied to that question in writing. Actually, I conclude that he says: go to sleep quietly, because grosso modo falls everything within protected areas; it will be fine. Is the Secretary of State prepared to report to us on how this is developing? There will of course be some kind of monitoring of nature policy in the Netherlands. I would like to see whether, for example, those 64 areas are still there in five years' time. The point is that we can follow that development.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u484	From my point of view, these 64 areas are, for the most part, within the spatial protection of the nature network of the Netherlands. This is a debate that we have had on several occasions. You ask me every time, but that's okay, of course. This is a protection that provinces offer, but which they have committed themselves to. Indeed, you can see in the monitoring that these areas remain the same. You can see exactly how many hectares are included in the figures I have provided in the written set. A very small part, I believe only a few percent, is excluded, because those areas have no particular natural value that they should be protected from. That is why they do not fall within one of the areas that are spatially protected. They are often still owned by nature organisations and are thus preserved for nature, even though there is no public protection on them, because neither the Empire nor the province considers it necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u485	Finally, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u486	My question was as follows. Those 64 natural monuments were once identified and named as such. The Secretary of State says to society: that's basically all secured, let's not talk about the few percent that is outside. My question was whether the Secretary of State is prepared to continue to monitor whether those 64 natural monuments actually stand up, yes or no. That is my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u487	The question is clear! The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u488	Not specifically. 96% of these areas are covered by the Netherlands Nature Network. 56 out of 64 areas in total, 4 in part and 4 not. A total of 34.022 hectares but 58.7 hectares do not fall within Nature Network The Netherlands and all other hectares do. As agreed, the Chamber receives reports from the provinces about the Dutch Nature Network. The agreement is that the area is expanding and the Chamber can itself monitor whether it is actually getting bigger and not smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u489	The meadowbirds. In June 2015, I tabled a very clear motion to the Chamber together with Mr Leenders. It's accepted. Now it is good practice that the ruler clearly indicates whether that motion is being carried out or not. The Secretary of State said, "I'm going to carry out that motion." A year later there will be a letter from the Secretary of State with some generalities in it, but no plan of action. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that he simply did not carry out this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u490	No, but we had the debate on the meadow birds last week. It's up to you as chairman to decide whether we're going to do that again, Mr. President. There's a plan of action. I indicated that in view of the fact that the new agricultural nature management was launched on 1 January this year, I expect the results to be much better than expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u491	But you discussed all this last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u492	We all discussed that last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u493	Then I understood that correctly. Do you have one more specific question, Mr Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u494	It's not true!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u495	This wasn't discussed last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u496	There's no plan of action! It does not in any way meet any criterion that you could adopt a plan of action. There is a letter which says in particular: with agricultural nature management I expect it to be okay. No resources, no time schedule, no goals, nothing. Nothing at all. And, Mr. Chairman, I'm upset about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u497	But so was you last week, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u498	I believe that if the Chamber adopts a motion, that motion will be carried out. And I think that a budget debate is also the time when I should be able to say that, loud and clear and sharp, and that is what I am doing here. Even if there is no question, I still want to have reported here, if only for the report, that the Secretary of State simply does not carry out that motion! That means I'll come back to that later. It is crystal clear: even with the new agricultural nature management it is not going to be him. Analyses and initial evaluations indicate he's not gonna be, although this Secretary of State insists on doing so. Beautiful words, but no deeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u499	The displeasure of Mr Grashoff during this debate was already clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u500	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u501	I hesitate, but I'm just going to make that remark. I'll be accused of partiality. An interruption is not... Look, the Secretary of State has now spoken for 6 hours and 13 minutes, of which 1 hour and 17 minutes without being interrupted. That's out of the blue, isn't it? You should see that as a committee, too? That is the only reason why I say save your political, independent remarks for your second term, rather than wanting to do it all in interruptions. This debate is completely out of control in this way. Mrs. Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u502	Fortunately, I have two simple, short questions, first of all about nature-inclusive education. If we want to have sustainable agriculture, nature including education is also very important. Would the Secretary of State like to sit down with Higher Agricultural Schools to see if an extra tooth can be achieved? My second question concerns the sheep shepherds we spoke about here last Tuesday. They clearly indicated that the differences between the provinces are very large. If the Secretary of State is going to sit down with the provinces to talk about the sheepherds, he may also be able to take this point with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u503	Mrs Koşer Kaya is concerned with nature inclusiveness in green education. In the development agenda, I agreed with the whole green education sector that our policy goals will be translated more into green education. This also means the commitment to a more sustainable agriculture and nature-inclusive agriculture. That is really the direction in which it must develop. In reply to the question about sheep shepherds, I note that they can set up an entrepreneurial model in each province with which they have a certain future. The fact that this will not be done exactly the same in every province is, of course, the province's competence, but the discussion with the provinces is about how the sheepherds have a secure future in a sustainable way. It is a beautiful profession and it is wonderful to see that the management in our nature areas is carried out with sheep.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u504	Thank you for both commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u505	We asked questions about hunting in the first term. Wild animals are often claimed to cause damage and therefore hunting is allowed, but without verifiable data. The Council of State also stresses that you must have objective and verifiable data to show that there is significant damage and states that there is no satisfactory solution. We tabled a motion in April and the Secretary of State would respond, but it is now almost December. We would like that motion to be put to the vote, because we want the Secretary of State to make it clear how he is going to ensure that these rules are properly observed. Why haven't we received that letter yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u506	The precise answer to that question must remain to Mrs Ouwehand for a moment, because I do not have the motion so sharply on the radar. Damage caused by wildlife is subject to damage control. That's in the new Nature Protection Act. Damage control should only be carried out on the basis of a fauna management plan. A plan for the management of fauna must be drawn up by units of management of fauna, and from the entry into force of the new law, two organisations must be set up which are responsible for the importance of nature. the purpose of animal welfare. I use my own words and not those of the legal text. This means that, from the entry into force of the new law, civil society organisations will also be involved in the fight against damage and that it will also be possible to ask for support for the fight against damage in the fauna management units. It is also up to the provinces to justify the decision to grant the exemption in the manner required by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u507	Yes, but the debate at the time was about the national exemption list. The Council of State also stresses that you must have objective and verifiable data, that there must again be evidence of significant damage and that there is no satisfactory alternative. The Secretary of State has said he will see to it, but we do not know how yet. In our motion we asked to make that clear and to come up with a plan of action to see that, but we are now six months later and we have not seen anything yet. If we put the motion to the vote, can we count on the Secretary of State to embrace the motion, or will he send the plan of action we asked for tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u508	I would suggest that for the second term I find out exactly what motion it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u509	Then we're gonna keep track of whether that's gonna be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u510	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u511	I have two questions. My first question is about green education. The Chamber adopted a motion on this subject, which was also co-signed by the Christian Union. There are too large differences in the funding system. Did the Secretary of State get to work on that? We didn't really have much debate on that today. What's the status?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u512	Sure. The Chamber has also received a report on this. We have set up an official working group on the Van Meenen c.s motion. has mapped out what would have to be done if it were decided, for example at a subsequent formation, to transfer the green education to the Ministry of Education. In the motion at the time, they were asked to do so. It was said at that time that we are identifying the achievements of green education and what is needed in the case of transfer. In that official report, the cabinet did not take a position on this, because we really want to leave this to the next cabinet and to the next formation. However, the report notes that there are indeed differences in funding, especially from green MBO and green scientific education, i.e. Wageningen University.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u513	Your second question, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u514	Well, I don't think the Secretary of State has finished his answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u515	One last sentence, Mr. Chairman. So we've already offered that report to the Chamber. Members have that and can see it. The political groups may, if they so wish, involve it in any discussion for the formation of a subsequent cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u516	What is your second question, Mrs Dik-Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u517	Good. My second question is about the sheep herd. I see that Mr Graus is not present in the Chamber at the moment. He suggested that I also involve the municipalities in the consultation. I'd like to pass this on to the Secretary of State. There are also municipalities with sheep animals on their territory. I know from stories by the shepherds that they are not only facing problems of funding, but also the procurement and VAT problems, because funding is carried out through the organisations involved in the field. So there really is more to it than just a shortage of money. However, the things that are more going on can be solved quickly with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u518	Let me say that in these talks we include all the facets that are important for a healthy future for sheep cattle. If there is a need for municipalities to join, this must of course be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u519	Mr Van Gerven, you've already been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u520	Yes, but I would like to return to the previous point raised by Mrs Dik-Faber, because that has not yet been discussed. In the motion-Van Meenen c.s. I also believe that the aim was to achieve equal rights. The official working group notes that there are indeed differences. Is the Secretary of State prepared to eliminate these differences? It may be said that we are moving it to another cabinet, but the problem is acknowledged and the Chamber is actually asking for a solution now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u521	I did exactly what I promised the Chamber earlier when it came to implementing this motion. At that time I said that the motion called for the transfer of green education. I said at that time: I will have the officials map out what will happen in the event of a decision to transfer this education. What do you have to do to ensure that the achievements of green education are secured, even if that education is covered by OCW? We have indeed mapped that out and an official report has been published on that. It states that there are indeed differences...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u522	You already told me, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u523	... in the calculation method. It is really up to the participants in a next formation to make decisions about this. This also depends on the question where you want to take up green education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u524	He doesn't want it, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u525	No, he doesn't, Mr. Chairman. You're right to conclude that. But it is noted that there is a problem now. For one student, in green education...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u526	We are not going to have the debate on this right now, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u527	Mr. President, may I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u528	No. You're asking the Secretary of State to do this. His answer is no. Then we can repeat that five more times, but he has answered your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u529	No, but the Secretary of State suggests that the transfer could create a problem that you have to solve. No, the problem is already there, and it's acute and real. The majority of the Chamber has said that this equality must now be achieved. For that the Secretary of State would indeed have to look for 25 million or 28 million in the budget, together with OCW. Is he willing to do that? I think that is very real, given that this difference is seen by everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u530	I do not know whether Mr Van Gerven has read the report by now. If he's done that, he's been able to see that it's going a little deeper than he's saying right now. In fact, it has been examined earlier whether there is a difference in the amount of funding. The funding of an average MBO scholar in green education appears to be about equivalent, but there are differences in the way those amounts are calculated, for example the calculation of price factors and the question of which education to compare it with. That's all described in the report. The cabinet has not taken a position on this, as announced in advance, because it really leaves it to a next cabinet and a next House of Representatives. I do not know if Mr Van Gerven is there again, but his party might just be back in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u531	We are going to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u532	I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 56 by Mrs Dik-Faber, on the Convenant Clean and Economical Agrosectors. Like Mrs Dik-Faber, I recognise the urgency of action in the field of primary agriculture and energy and climate, especially in the light of the Paris climate agreement. This requires innovation, knowledge development and dissemination. I think it's a great idea and a good cause. That is why I am already doing a lot about this with the existing instruments; not only me, but also the Minister. Examples include monofertilisation with the budget from the SDE+, the biomass project in calf farming and the adoption of the energy saving list. I would like to say to Mrs Dik-Faber that I will try to make the thrust of this amendment more cooperative between all the players aimed at achieving the objectives of the climate agreement more intertwined with existing policies. I am already talking about this with the various sectors. I do not think that additional budget is necessary in order to achieve that greater intertwinedness. Funds are already available for such projects, for example in the top sectors policy. There are several generic schemes, such as the Wbso, the TKI allowances and the European funds from the CAP and the POP. Finally, the Covenant also includes the deployment of RVO, which can facilitate sectoral working groups. Mrs Dik-Faber covered her amendment from the budget reserve. We discussed this a few times last year. That reserve is intended to cover the European Commission's corrections due to non-EU compliance with the implementation of EU support schemes in the field of the common agricultural policy. The Ministry of Economic Affairs, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, shall determine when drawing up the budget whether this reserve is proportionate in relation to the financial threats arising from ongoing investigations by the European Commission. The reserve apurement is required to cover the risk of possible future corrections according to current insights and cannot therefore be used for other purposes. I cut the reserve in the budget. In the light of last year's debate, I reviewed him and found that he could indeed be lower than what he was in the budget for this year. But I don't think a further reduction is justified. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u533	I promise I won't stand here at all, but I would like to say a few words about this. First of all, the content of the amendment. This indeed has to do with innovation from above or from below, from the farmyard. I'm gonna take this behind the scenes a little bit further. So I'll come back to that. I think it's very necessary. As far as coverage is concerned, the reserve apurement has a balance of 174 million, while 90 million is needed. Those are my records. The cabinet itself used 8 million as cover for the reinforcement of NVWA. I would say that this is a fantastic goal for this modest amount. I have covered my other amendment here too. In the light of what the cabinet itself does, I think that is quite justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u534	With regard to the financing of the NVWA, I have decided to remove the reserve apurement to the level at which it is justified. We talked about this last year. Then the Chamber also asked whether the reserve was not too high and whether it was not too much to feed. In this context, I have also reviewed it again, especially since I needed additional resources for the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u535	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u536	So I have actually already done what Mrs Dik-Faber suggests, namely creaming it and stopping the annual diet. This will also reach the lower limit, which is considered justified, including by the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, I do not think that any further skimming is justified. I think it was good to think about this extensively, because this coverage is being increased more often. I can therefore refer to this discussion. Mr Dijkgraaf has tabled an amendment on 10 million more for innovation and knowledge development. He's covering that from the Food Agenda. I have already said that the Food Agenda includes EUR 9 million for innovation and knowledge development that should benefit the agricultural sector and food production. In the written set, I explained that where Mr Dijkgraaf had the impression that innovation would be cut in the budget, that is not the case. I have included existing budgets in the Food Agenda, precisely to focus them on the objectives of the Food Agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u537	The aim was to leave it mainly to the primary producer, including in the livestock sector. I do not think that is the purpose of the food agenda. We will make that clear in an amendment to the amendment unless the Secretary of State says that an important part is still going there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u538	In this debate, I have addressed in detail the five objectives for which the innovation budget of the Food Agenda is being used: supporting start-ups, plant proteins, green plant protection products, potato and the exploitation of data, ICT, to support primary production. It all ends up in primary production, but not so much directly focused on livestock farming, as Mr Dijkgraaf suggests. There are many other programmes, including for the top sectors, to which these innovation budgets are largely devoted. They will become part of the top sector programmes. Other programmes in these top sectors are aimed primarily at livestock farming, for about the extent to which Mr Dijkgraaf is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u539	I have not yet heard a judicum on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u540	Dissuade me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u541	Dissuade me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u542	We shall take another look at the text of the amendment and the replies of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u543	Yeah, I'll wait and see. I come to Mr Grashoff's amendment to item No. 63. Mr Grashoff wants to pay an additional 2.5 million for meadow birds. This is covered from the EUR 10 million for trade missions. I said earlier that I also think we need to do more to strengthen pasture birds and that I am doing the best I can within the possibilities I have. We have only just begun the new approach to agricultural nature management. That is a step forward. In general, we have also discussed a possible alternative from Mr Grashoff. He suggested transferring funds from the first pillar of the common agricultural policy to the second pillar. This cabinet has previously been instructed by the Chamber not to do so. In general terms, however, I have also said that the new Chamber can make that decision until the summer of next year. This concerns another financing, i.e. 2.5 million from the 10 million for trade promotion. It is currently on an additional item in the state budget. Resources should be used to help achieve jointly defined strategic goals targeting priority countries, top sectors and global societal challenges. The Trade and Investment Board, set up by the public-private Dutch Trade and Investment Board, will issue an opinion on its implementation at the beginning of next year. If the Chamber decided to use these funds for grazing birds, the intended strengthening of public-private economic diplomacy in favour of the internationalisation of Dutch companies would not be possible. That's why I can't support this cover. I therefore advise against this amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 64.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u544	Is it possible to show it a little bit shorter? Or do you really want to continue to make all these arguments? It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u545	I'll try. With this amendment, Mrs Dik-Faber aims to release 0.5 million for multifunctional agriculture. This is an interesting and useful development in agriculture. We have made the task force possible from 2007 to 2012, which has given a great boost to the sector. After supporting multifunctional agriculture in the start-up phase, there is no specific role for the government or for EZ; it is now up to the sector itself. This can be done through, for example, the POP3 schemes of the provinces. Proposals can be submitted to the Top Consortia for Knowledge and Innovation of the Top Sectors. Coverage is apurement; I have just said a few words about this. Because of this cover, I advise against this amendment. I come to the Koşer Kaya amendment to part No. 65. Mrs Koşer Kaya wants to invest EUR 5 million in the Municipal Fund for the greening of the urban environment. Of course, that is a wonderful ambition, but if you put EUR 5 million into the Community Fund, you will in no way have the assurance that the money will be spent on it. Municipalities are free to decide how they spend that money. They make their own decisions. When you divide 5 million between municipalities, the budgets that municipalities get, especially the budgets that small municipalities get, are very limited. Even if they had the desire to use this ambition, that ambition could be achieved only very little. However, municipalities are free to use that budget for paving, for example, because that is also possible if you simply deposit that money into the Municipal Fund. The cover for which Mrs Koşer Kaya chooses is the TKI supplement. This is needed to make payments in 2017 for TKI projects that have started in recent years or will start in 2017. For this reason, I consider coverage from these resources undesirable. I therefore advise against this amendment. The next amendment is the Van Gerven amendment to item No. 68. Mr Van Gerven wants to draw 15 million from the budget reserve for the creation of a revolving fund to promote the development of animal testing-free alternatives. I've advised against this cover before. So that's exactly what I'm doing in this case. With the amendment in part No. 69 Mr Van Gerven aims to free up €120,000 for the Stichting Zorg om Boer en Tuinder. This is a repetition of an amendment that I believe Mr Van Gerven tabled last year. I didn't recommend that last year. I'm doing that now; that won't be a surprise for him. Previously, the Boerenkans project was completed, in which the Stichting ZOB was also present. The conclusion was and is that the various interest groups are very close to each other. They are able to stand by farmers who want to stop together. EZ no longer has a specific role to play. I therefore also reject this amendment this year. With the amendment in part No. 70 Mr Van Gerven wants to ensure that €350,000 goes to the National Animal Protection Inspectorate for a temporary task force illegal puppy trade. I don't think it's necessary. The fight against illegal puppy trade is a primary responsibility of NVWA. It is already working intensively with the Member and the police, and this year it has already made an extra effort to enforce illegal trade in dogs. The proposed coverage is again apurement. I have already said a lot about this. I therefore advise against that amendment. With the amendment in part No. 71 Mr Van Gerven aims to release EUR 5 million for the organic sector. It is a repetition of a previous amendment tabled by Mr Van Gerven in 2012. On this basis, EUR 5 million per year has already been made available for biological research over the last four years. This research has now been assigned its place, for example in the subsidy scheme under the top sectors policy in which it can be used. Think of the MIT scheme, the MKB innovation stimulation Region and Top Sectors, which entrepreneurs already use. I don't think the cover is desirable. Although an amount of almost EUR 17 million within the category of contracts under Article 6 is not yet formally legally mandatory, EUR 13 million is made up of funds earmarked for the Food Agenda. I really need it to carry out that ambition. The remaining EUR 4 million I am committed, among other things, to finding alternatives to animal testing. I believe that this is another amendment by Mr Van Gerven on animal welfare activities and the promotion of food security, and I therefore advise against this amendment. Then there is Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 72: half a million for nature-inclusive agriculture. I support that wish. I have just indicated, in response to questions from Mr Leenders and Mr Grashoff, that I will set out the scenarios for the design of a transition to a nature-inclusive agriculture. In order to fulfil that commitment, this amendment is not now necessary. I think it is premature to make an occasional budget before choices have been made about the scenario that is being followed. You can also make arrangements towards a next cabinet about which scenarios are followed and which need to be converted into future policies. I have already said the necessary things about cover, and I would also advise against this amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 73 by Mr Graus on €871,000 for the Forensic Animal Research Foundation. We have already discussed this and I have referred Mr Graus to the Minister for Security and Justice. I said that the foundation could receive a fee for specific research when the D.A. wants to deploy the foundation. This may also apply to the NVWA. The amendment in part No. 73 also finds coverage from the legally non-compulsory budget of Article 6, which I am largely committed to the ambitions of the Food Agenda. I have just spoken about the remaining 4 million. I don't recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u546	Mr Graus (COM). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 73 and the State Secretary's opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u547	In the meantime, the Secretary of State has promised that he will see how it can be placed elsewhere, but I would like to keep the amendment as a stick behind the door. It will not be voted on until later. If you prevent one or two killers from getting involved in animal abuse but then committing murders, something that that veterinary forensic team can do, it's worth it. What's a human life worth? For me, animal life is worth something. It's a couple of tons, and you're already throwing away so many millions. It's a couple of tons to keep animal executioners out of society and to prevent potential killers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u548	You're asking the Secretary of State to reconsider his judgment, basically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u549	He's not gonna do that, but I just want to give you an explanation. If the Secretary of State puts it elsewhere, I am satisfied with it, and I may be able to withdraw the amendment. There is not yet a direct vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u550	I know and respect Mr Graus' passionate commitment to this subject. The initiators he is talking about have submitted a grant application and we have not honoured the structural subsidy. It is up to the OM or possibly the NVWA to hire the specific expertise of this foundation for specific research. That is something we can do, and that does not mean that it is put in place in a structural way. The D.A. may decide to hire them for expertise that they do not have at the time at the NFI.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u551	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u552	The Secretary of State also wants to talk bilaterally about Stable Safe systems, possibly one of his officials. Let us speak bilaterally here, because we cannot talk about everything in time alone. There are just solutions, including with those involved people, to put it somewhere. That saves the taxpayer a few tons and then we don't need those laws of €871,000. I have to ask here because it's not neat to do that bilaterally, but let's get our heads together with that veterinary forensic team. That's gonna work, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u553	That's your question to the Secretary of State. By the way, if you're talking about anything for 6 hours and 40 minutes, you're not going to be very busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u554	As I said, I know that Mr Graus finds it annoying that I refer him to the Minister of Justice, but he is primarily responsible. I really advise him to have that conversation with the Minister of Justice, if he's not satisfied with what I'm putting on the table. It really falls under his main responsibility, I say on his behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u555	Then we go to the Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u556	In the amendment to item No. 74 is asked for 7.5 million for more staff at NVWA. That is very friendly for the NVWA, because with more budget the NVWA can exercise more supervision. In the spring I brought the multiannual budgets of the NVWA to the level by adding 23 million. The NVWA thus has sufficient resources to carry out its tasks, including in the field of animal welfare. Mrs Thieme is seeking cover in the 10 million for trade promotion. In Mr Grashoff's amendment, I have already said why I cannot support it, so I would also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u557	And with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u558	That is what I think I have come to the end of my reply in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u559	But Mr Leenders does not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u560	Yeah, that's because I'm missing something. The Secretary of State has not responded to my Green and Water Note in the city. He also did not answer the questions I had asked. The chairman had just left on Tuesday, when I offered the Secretary of State that fine note. Maybe he can still do that, but otherwise I'll use the second term for that. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u561	I hope I can leave that until the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u562	You may. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. Is there a need for a suspension prior to the second deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u563	A brief suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u564	Then I'll suspend the meeting for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u565	We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber. I would ask Members to limit the interruptions to what is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u566	Mr. Chairman. Given the time, I'd better start filing the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that farmers have been compensated for the effects of the Q-fever epidemic but not the victims;]] [[considers that a form of compensation to the victims in the event of such damage is desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to have different options developed to set up a compensation fund for Q-fever victims;]] [[calls on the Government to send this to the Chamber before the summer of 2017 so that the new Chamber can decide,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to Rabobank's forecast, the number of dairy farmers will have fallen by 5,000 to 12,000 in 2020 and the prospects for pig farming and poultry farming are no better;]] [[Whereas almost half of pig and chicken farmers have been living below the poverty line for an average of 15 years;]] [[Whereas more than half of farmers over 55 years of age have no successor;]] [[Considers that the threat of decimation of the peasantry is undesirable and that continued scaling-up is assuming undesirable proportions;]] [[calls on the Government to base its policy for the future of the agricultural sector on the following principles:]] [[future prospects for (young) entrepreneurs and facilitating the transfer of farms from quitting farmers to new farmers;]] [[cost-covering price by improving the bargaining position for farmers, by relaxing competition rules and addressing purchasing power;]] [[regulation of production to prevent over-production and to promote adequate pricing;]] [[limiting the size of farms and reducing the number of farms so as to preserve a viable countryside and family farming;]] [[a good earning model for the family business as an alternative to unwanted scaling;]] [[produce within sustainable environmental boundary conditions and with respect for animals and their natural behaviour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-75]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u567	The final motion is an attempt to radically change the helm. This is necessary if we want a sustainable sector that is also acceptable to all as a carrier of rural areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u568	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to tabling two motions. I will also briefly address a number of words to the Secretary of State. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the first-term response. It is good to note that the Secretary of State is also under the spell of the pager and that a number of commitments have been made in response to the letter Netherlands Pieperland of the VVD. I would mention, among other things, the agri-business for farmers, gardeners and fishermen and the launch of a study to use soil improvers without negative effects on fertilization, or the placement area, I have to say formally. I ask the Secretary of State if it is possible to submit the inventory of precision agriculture to the Chamber before 15 February. I think it would have been completed in January and discussed with the sector. I hope that we will be able to learn about this by then. Mr President, I would like to make two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u569	Depends on your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u570	Yeah, but I've got a small run in the min. The first motion concerns a new processing technique. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas new processing techniques are becoming increasingly available and development is accelerating;]] [[Whereas new processing techniques can contribute to the resilience of the crop to diseases and pests, and to a sustainable future of agriculture, our food safety and food security;]] [[Whereas the use of new processing techniques is crucial for our processing sector;]] [[Whereas CRISPR/Cas9 is a new technique which does not require the use of external genes;]] [[calls on the Government to promote an exemption from European GM legislation from CRISPR/Cas9;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the European Commission to take an early decision on new processing techniques in relation to GM legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u571	Then I'll file a motion on the social involvement of State Forestry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for managing hundreds of thousands of hectares of nature and landscape in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that the Ministry of Forestry is accountable for objectives and budget;]] [[Whereas public involvement in State Forest Management can be enhanced by, for example, the system of shares in nature;]] [[calls on the Government to examine this system of shares in nature and to start as a pilot project in a number of nature reserves;]] [[also invites the Government to inform the Chamber of progress before 1 February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u572	This brings me to the end of my second term. I apologize for the abbreviations in the motion, but there is no other explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u573	That too will be something of the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u574	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I have heard him say a number of times today 'in the next cabinet' and a few other words that go with it. So I would also like to thank him for this last budget of his hand. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no successor on most farms with a farmer aged 55 or over;]] [[Whereas this means that over 15,000 farms will disappear over the next 10 years;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether existing company follow-up arrangements are sufficient and to make proposals to improve them and to inform the Court in the first quarter of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the Working Group on Agricultural Markets has made valuable recommendations, such as extending competition law for agriculture, supporting cooperation between farmers and gardeners and supporting risk mitigation instruments;]] [[calls on the Government to pro-actively promote clarification and broadening of the competition rules and to make the recommendations of the working group Dutch engagement in the negotiations for the forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a high content of organic matter in soil has a positive effect on soil fertility, water quality and carbon storage and results in more efficient use of manure and plant protection products;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage farmers to improve soil management, for example through the use of soil improvers, in the Sixth Action Programme of the Nitrates Directive;]] [[calls on the Government to launch an investigation into organic substances that can be used as soil improvers, with no negative impact on the manure placement area, such as plus-quality compost, and thus be deployed outside the Nitrates Directive action programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-79]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-80]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u575	I want to end with the following sentences. The CDA has confidence in the people, trust in society and therefore trust in the future. Moreover, the CDA does its work in the conviction that God's creation was given to us to manage her well and better leave her behind for our children and grandchildren. Above all, I wish the Chamber, the Government and the officials God's blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u576	Thank you very much. Mr Graus has a comment on the blessing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u577	Those last words are very appealing to me as a believing boy. But I hope that the CDA keeps the creatures of God created before man, even better in the future. For whether you believe in the story of creation or in the theory of evolution, the animals were there before the humans and we just have to deal with it properly. I hope that Mr Geurts will continue that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u578	It is the first time that Mr Graus has responded to this. I do this with every budget. As long as I'm in politics, I'm used to doing it this way, including in the city council. As far as Mr Graus's words are concerned, I believe that we have always done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u579	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I have a motion on the Better Life label. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas animal welfare represents an important intrinsic value;]] [[Whereas the Better Life label contributes to a transparent food chain and thus provides an important opportunity for agricultural businesses;]] [[Whereas the Better Life label is recognizable by consumers;]] [[considers that there is a need to broaden and deepen the Better Life label to other products and characteristics;]] [[calls on the government to contribute to the broadening of the Better Life label to dairy products and to deepen it to environmental aspects, and to engage in discussions with the Animal Protection and Nature & Environment, as part of the Cabinet's Food Agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Velde and Mr Van Dekken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u580	Mr. Chairman. This motion might not have been necessary, but I'm still using my second term for it. It is about the note that Mr Jacobi and I are very proud of. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas green and water in the immediate living environment is good for health and well-being, and gives children the opportunity to develop in a healthy environment;]] [[Whereas the urban environment can make an important contribution to biodiversity;]] [[Whereas climate change forces us to take appropriate measures against water pollution and heat stress;]] [[noting that there are many initiatives in society that contribute to health, biodiversity and climate adaptation;]] [[calls on the government to ask the provinces to include the beautiful social initiatives mentioned in the Green and Water Paper in the city in the Nature Summit to be organised in spring;]] [[calls on the government to give the above-mentioned social initiatives as an example to education, including green education and education for urban planners and planners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas nature in the Netherlands is not doing well, to a large extent caused by common agriculture;]] [[having regard to the many opinions, including the opinions of the Planning Office for the Environment and the ESC, on current agriculture, which state that it must be changed;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a detailed plan for the transition from common to natural-inclusive agriculture and to inform the Chamber before 1 March,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leenders and Mr Jacobi. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-83]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leenders and Mr Van Dekken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u581	I would like to make the following point in this motion. If the Secretary of State explains this motion in such a way that he prefers not to make a plan of action but rather a starting document for a nature and agricultural summit in the later spring, then I would like to give him such an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u582	I do insist that the Labour Party writes down in its motion what it wants to have a ruling on from the Chamber. I find it a little complicated when a motion is tabled and an interpretation is anticipated by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u583	You're actually right. Let us stick to the original motion, with the ruling I am asking for. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas volunteers in nature and the landscape make an indispensable contribution to the achievement of nature objectives;]] [[considers that through the decentralisation of nature policy, support for volunteering is the responsibility of the provinces;]] [[considers that continuity should be maintained in the process of decentralisation;]] [[invites the Government, within three months, to make clear agreements with the provinces and social parties on the financing of activities for nature volunteers, and to inform the Chamber before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leenders and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u584	I do not, of course, have the text of this motion in front of me yet, but I think I heard Mr Leenders from the Labour Party asking for consultation. Should I explain this motion in such a way that the Secretary of State has some sort of coordinating role and that the other parties have to get out of it with each other? If that's not the case, I'd like to have a cover of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u585	Provinces are primarily responsible for nature volunteers. This is the result of decentralisation. Last year we held back many initiatives by colleagues to bring back parts of the Nature Protection Act, because we thought those parts were so important. We said at the time that we should not do that. We have not done that either, but we do want to change things that do not seem to go well in practice, here and there. That is the purpose of this motion, and so is my next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u586	Then it is unclear to me how this motion will be financed, so I would like to hear Mr Leenders' coverage. At the time when the Secretary of State is asked to sit down with those parties at the table, but I do not yet have the exact text of the motion for a resolution before me, it is clear, because then it will be at the expense of those parties. If Mr Leender says that he is asking the Secretary of State when they do not come out, I would like to have a cover on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u587	First of all, what Mrs Lodder says is the intention. The parties must come together and we expect the Secretary of State to coordinate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u588	So primary and secondary coverage with the other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u589	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the structural financing of the sheep herd has still not been regulated;]] [[having regard to the importance of sheep herds for the conservation of particular breeds, cultural heritage, biodiversity and knowledge;]] [[calls on the government, with provinces and civil society organisations, to regulate structural funding and thereby to give the sheep-skuddes a future, before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leenders, Mr Jacobi and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u590	I believe that Mr Leenders has now tabled all his motions. All the matters he has put forward in his motions are more or less promised by the Secretary of State. What's new in all the motions he's just filed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u591	The subject of the first motion has not even been discussed. As far as we are concerned, the request made in the second motion is not sufficiently committed. The third and fourth motions are motions which were also raised here last year. We believe that the requested solution must now really be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u592	The first motion has been discussed elsewhere. In my view, what the Secretary of State has just said, both on sheep shepherds and on the subjects in the other two motions, is entirely in line with what has been said in the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u593	Mrs Koşer Kaya, I think I am dealing with my own motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u594	I was about to say something political. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u595	Actually, I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u596	Oh, I'm just doing it. Perhaps Mrs Koşer Kaya, when it comes to unnecessary motions, can also discuss this once in her own group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u597	Mr President, you did a good prediction, because I have exactly the same question to Mr Leenders. Does he give the same answer, namely that it is primary and secondary to the parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u598	Yeah, same answer. These are two motions which are motivated by decentralisations which are not too flexible. We believe that the Secretary of State has a responsibility to regulate them properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u599	Exactly, but the funding is borne by the external parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u600	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u601	Mr. Chairman. I have only three motions to make, because the Secretary of State has promised me a few cases which will make it impossible for me to table a few more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to put the importance of our farmers, growers and fishermen above that of the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to step up its efforts to tackle dog fighting and other animal-related crime, including illegal dog trafficking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, to provide training for veterinary forensic research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-87]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-88]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u602	On that last motion, the Secretary of State will say that he has made a commitment. He did that last year, at my request. He will say that veterinary forensic research is already facilitated for veterinarians and animal police people by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, but that concerns only the recognition of haematomas, of bruising, i.e. animal cruelty. I have asked for it myself. This motion is really about training as a veterinary forensic doctor. The investigation of wildlife crimes as poaching activities is also included. So that goes much further. It's about the kind of training our first veterinary forensic doctor, Monique Verkerk, had to take in America. I don't know if I'm gonna be here for the last time. That's always exciting. Maybe it is. In that case, I would like to say that for ten years, but in fact since 1986, I have advocated an emergency number for animals. Well, that's lucky. I have also long argued for the animal police, for prison sentences for animal executioners, for a life-long restraining ban and for veterinary forensics. That would be the cherry on the cake for me. I would like to mention this, however, and I would like to thank Mrs Ouwehand for these words, because her story is just right that the animal police have been killed for party political reasons. That's very clear. Every journalist knows that, and every citizen knows that. Whether I stay in the Chamber or not, my battle for animals continues. My fight is international. In January I go to China because they abuse dogs and eat. I'm going to Taiwan. I went to Bulgaria to set up an animal police. Worldwide, I will be the ambassador for 144, the animal police, prison sentences for animal executioners, the life-long restraining order and veterinary forensics. No one's stopping me. The sad thing is that I have been laughed at and ridiculed many times in this country, while in other countries I am received as a hero. That's a lot of acid, I have to say, because I know I'm right. Since 1986 I have walked with all the investigation services: the then AID (General Inspection Service), the Animal Protection Agency, the Member (National Inspection Service for Animal Protection). No one has as much expertise in detecting animal executioners and animal abuse as I do. Nobody. Remember that, Mr President. Thank you and a blessed evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u603	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. For the sake of time, I submit my motions immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas causality between eating unsafe food and disease is difficult to prove;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce evidence that the occurrence (sickness) damage is the result of the food taken into account if a consumer can prove that he has eaten food for which a safety warning has been issued by the NVWA which concerns him and has subsequently become ill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NVWA does not properly implement the Reuse of Public Sector Information Act;]] [[Whereas the policy is to promote open data as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that NVWA correctly implement the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act as soon as possible and resolve any technical problems that may arise from it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that farmers have to deal with successive and constantly changing systems of agricultural, environmental and nature regulation;]] [[calls on the government, for the benefit of farmers and nature, to come forward with an analysis and improvement proposals for current legislation, e.g. a design approach such as in use with the municipality of Eindhoven,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of agricultural subsidies is not sufficiently understood;]] [[Considers that greater transparency on this can increase confidence in the use of subsidies and, in the long term, contribute to a better image of the agricultural sector and a reduction in control burdens for the State and the farmer;]] [[invites the Government to examine how, within existing information flows, more insight can be provided into the use of grants and the social contribution that this produces for the accountability of grants and the legal framework for the protection of personal data, and to provide such data in a way that they are reusable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-90]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-91]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-92]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u604	Mr. Chairman. I hope that you will also say later that these motions were great, and very new in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u605	I'll read them very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u606	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. Because of the time, I'll start the motions immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Covenant International Corporate Social Responsibility (IMVO) was recently signed on the farmyard by LTO Netherlands, civil society organisations and the Cabinet;]] [[Whereas the position of the primary producer should be strengthened, inter alia by improving the position of farmers and gardeners in the production chain and by promoting civic investment and the connection between farmers and citizens;]] [[Whereas it is important to support the agricultural sector in societal transitions and innovation, for example the "4 pour 1000" initiative in France, which lays down soil carbon dioxide and maintains long-term sustainability of agricultural productivity;]] [[calls on the government, to strengthen the position of the primary producer and regional food systems by supporting voluntary agreements on the farmyard, co-financing of civil investment on the model of the top sectors of horticulture and source materials and to enable Agri & food and to create policy space and budgetary space through regional embedding of food policy and strengthening the earning model of farmers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u607	I apologize for the long sentences in the previous motion. My next motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Agricultural Youth Contact (NAJK) carried out an evaluation on the young farmer scheme (JOLA);]] [[whereas the JOLA is not sufficiently in line with the daily practice of young farmers, for example because the number of investment options on the list is too limited, and that the minimum amount to be invested per investment is too high for small-scale investments in, inter alia, meadow boxes, cow mattresses and machinery;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the NAYK closely in the evaluation of the JOLA and, in consultation with the provinces, to better adapt this scheme to the needs of young farmers in practice, including by lowering the investment threshold and adding options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by Alterra shows that the current measures are insufficient to reverse the national trend in the decline of farmland birds;]] [[Whereas farmers need more budget for agricultural nature management in order to reverse the negative trend and maintain farmland birds, such as the field lark;]] [[Considering that in 2015 the funds for the Rural Development Programme (POP3 funds) were under-spent;]] [[calls on the government to agree, together with the provinces, on the use of POP3 funds for agricultural nature management aimed at the conservation of farmland birds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-95]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u608	My last motion concerns an issue on which I have also tabled an amendment. However, that is not recommended. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas multifunctional agriculture is of great importance for the connection between farmers and citizens, the viability of rural areas and shrinking regions and for the further sustainability of agriculture as a whole;]] [[Whereas multifunctional agriculture can make an important contribution to the government's ambitions as defined in the Food Agenda;]] [[Whereas multifunctional agriculture is still a relatively small and fragmented sector with a limited budget and a low level of organisation;]] [[calls on the Government to re-establish the Multifunctional Agriculture Task Force, which can further develop multifunctional agriculture as a sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u609	Mr. Chairman. In view of the time and speaking time, I shall confine myself to reading out three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the previous Grashoff/Leenders motions adopted call for a plan of approach for meadow birds;]] [[Whereas the proposals of the Secretary of State have set out no objectives, no actions, no time limits, no division of responsibilities between partners and no financial basis;]] [[whereas civil society organisations such as Vogelbescherming, BoerenNatuur.nl and LTO Nederland, as well as the ex-ante evaluation of the ANLb 2016 of the WUR indicate that the current measures are not sufficient to stop the decline in meadow birds;]] [[Whereas the Green Left initiative paper "Birds of the World in the meadow" contains valuable elements to stop this decline;]] [[Calls on the Government to draw up a national approach plan by 1 February 2017 at the latest, containing at least the following elements:]] [[national targets for the different species of meadow birds;]] [[a timetable for achieving these objectives;]] [[concrete policy intensification with financial exploration;]] [[clear responsibilities for the necessary measures;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the heavily managed area of meadow bird management is declining, whereas we need more heavily managed area of meadow bird management to prevent further decline in the grazing bird population;]] [[noting that more efficient completion of the common agricultural policy resources can provide a solution while at the same time providing more money for farmers;]] [[Calls on the Government to prepare a proposal to transfer limited resources from the first pillar of the CAP to the second pillar of the CAP in 2018 with the funds benefiting from grazing bird management;]] [[invites the Government to send this proposal to the Chamber by 1 April at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, at the request of the Government and Chamber, several reports have been published, inter alia, by the Planning Office for the Environment and the Agriculture Economic Institute on the abolition of the milk quota and the impact on the dairy herd and its phosphate production;]] [[having noted that following the release of the milk quota there has been a large increase in the number of cows in the Netherlands and that the phosphate ceiling has been exceeded;]] [[Calls on the Government to ask the Planning Office for the Environment and the Agriculture Economic Institute to carry out a further review of the policy-making and analysis of the release of the milk quota from 2005 to 2015;]] [[invites the Government to send this investigation to the Chamber before the summer of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Leenders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-98]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-99]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u610	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Economic Affairs budget for 2017 announces the abolition of the VAT agricultural scheme as of 2018, without any form of refund, and does not, however, mention it in the Tax Plan;]] [[Whereas a large group of small farmers is likely to be burdened with VAT accounts;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the proposed abolition of the VAT agricultural regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that few fruit growers switch to organic farming;]] [[Whereas organic fruit production is at risk because fruit growers do not have sufficient biological plant protection products due to insufficient linking of authorisation practice to organic fruit farming practice;]] [[Whereas in neighbouring countries much more organic plant protection products are allowed and conversion takes place there, including fruit exports to the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the fruit-growing sector, to come forward with a short-term approach to ensure that the availability of organic plant protection products for fruit production improves significantly, including through structural exemption for relevant biological plant protection products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-101]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Geurts, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Graus, Mr Grashoff, Mr Koşer Kaya, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Leenders, Mr Lodders and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u611	Since the Secretary of State said "the Chamber is so diverse," this motion was co-signed by Mr Geurts, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Graus, Mr Grashoff, Mrs Koşer Kaya, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Leenders, Mrs Lodders and Mrs Ouwehand, hoping that the motion will be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u612	We had just agreed that we would not make any prior announcements about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u613	I'm withdrawing my words. Finally, Mr President, in view of the time, there are serious concerns in the sector, which has become clear in this debate. I think we should work harder on lower burdens. A larger part of the price should go to the farmyard. Because then you have a margin to invest in animal welfare and nature and the environment. Then you have a decent sandwich. I would like to give it to those young farmers who are ready to take over those farms that they are not going abroad but are investing here in this country. The Secretary of State said I'm going to fight for the sector. I'm gonna charge him for those words and hope he does. Mr President, I hope that you will be able to be President again next Thursday at 5 p.m. because then we will very much continue the debate we have started here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u614	I was wondering if Mrs Ouwehand would still make use of her second term. I see that this is the case. Then I'd be happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u615	Mr. Chairman. Animals are living beings with consciousness and feeling. If the Animal Party here describes what is happening to animals in livestock farming, it is unfortunately, in many cases, no different than animal cruelty. If you cut off an animal's tail without anesthesia, you're punishable if it's your dog, but if it's a piggy in intensive livestock farming, you get away with it. The same applies to castration. If you're thinking, "God, I'm gonna do that to my puppy myself," you're a criminal, and rightly so. Cattle farmers, pig farmers, on the other hand, are allowed to apply this to defenseless animals day in and day out without anesthesia. The problem of the animal species and the difference between the Secretary of State and the Animal Party is that he continues to allow animals to be adapted to the system, while the Animal Party says: if you keep animals, then you will have to adapt the system to the animals. An example. We asked questions about calves in our first term. Newborn calves are placed in a loner box immediately after birth. After that, these animals show disturbed behavior. To counteract that and to suppress natural behavior, some of those calves are now wearing a nose ring with sharp protrusions. And what does the Secretary of State say about that? "In current livestock farming, calves are separated from their mothers." That's where it goes wrong. "Calves then sometimes go sucking on other animals, including to meet their sucking needs. To prevent this from happening, sometimes an anti-drinking bracket or nasal flap is used temporarily, which prevents a calf from sucking another cow." The best preventive measure against this behaviour in calves is to give the animal the opportunity to just drink with its own mother. That's what the Secretary of State should be working on. We have previously tabled several motions which have been unable to vote, because the Secretary of State called for statements such as: we are going to investigate this further; it is still too early; this is coming too soon. We shall now put these motions to the vote. There are no less than 15 motions on livestock farming. In addition, we have tabled an amendment to make an additional 7.5 million available for monitoring and enforcement in the bio-industry, among others. This would double the number of FTEs, i.e. the number of full-time jobs available for animal welfare controls. The Secretary of State has just rejected that amendment, but it is up to the Chamber to adopt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u616	Just so we're clear, these 15 motions will be on next week's voting list?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u617	Yes, Mr. Chairman. We will pass all this on formally to the Registry, but I must have handed out a package to colleagues...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u618	That's the package you were just walking around with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u619	... so they can see what motions it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u620	Then we'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u621	Fine. Then I'll come on the hunt. At the moment the Crown Domain at Apeldoorn is closed. Why? Because that's where the royal family hunts. Both the Secretary of State and the VVD say: we are committed to ensuring good access to nature areas for everyone. Then I would say: let us be consistent and not make an exception. Hence the next motion, which is a new motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the broad shared desire to make nature in the Netherlands more attractive and accessible;]] [[noting that the so-called actual Crown Domain Het Loo is not accessible to Dutch citizens for more than three months a year;]] [[calls on the government to open the Kroondomain Het Loo to the public throughout the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u622	The subject of Kroondomain was discussed in the first term. I was interrupted by Mrs Thieme. We will not support this motion. We have looked at the website and as far as we can see, the Kroondomain is open to visitors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u623	That's right, except during the hunting season of the Royal House. So we say it should be open to visitors all year round. It would be nice if the VVD would back that up. Mr President, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of swans are shot with hail patterns each year;]] [[noting that swans are too large to be killed directly by a shot of hail and often fall from the air and die on the ground with flaky wings shattered by hail;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the firing of hail-shaped swans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u624	I shall return to the previous motion. Does Mrs Ouwehand think that during the bronze age the area should also be open?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u625	In principle, yes, but it's about protecting nature. The interests of the animals then go for possible opening up to visitors. Of course, that's quite different from hunting. Mr Geurts knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u626	I heard Mrs Ouwehand that the area should be open all year round. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u627	Well, we'll see about that, but I can't imagine that Mr Geurts would actually be about protecting either the nature reserve or the animals in the bronze. I just happened to come to nature. I'm glad the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u628	Mr Geurts took the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u629	Sure, and I'll make it a personal fact. Mr Geurts did not consider himself et cetera, et cetera. What kind of bullshit is that? You're not gonna disturb animals in the bronze age, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u630	That's right. We certainly won't. If certain parts are to remain closed in the interests of animals, Mr Geurts knows that he can always count on the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u631	I expect an apology, because Mrs Ouwehand blamed me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u632	Yes, Mr Geurts is not about protecting the animals. If you mean that, you're against hunting, and so far the CDA hasn't found one second in its existence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u633	I'm gonna end this discussion. Mrs. Ouwehand just doesn't want to apologize, but she just insulted me deeply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u634	You can have long toes or short toes, but these are very touchy. On the one hand, anyone who claims to want to record it for wild animals but on the other hand simply supports the hunt is unbelievable. Mr Geurts knows that too. I was talking about nature. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has the ambition to make the Netherlands the frontrunner in nature-inclusive agriculture. I am a little sad that he has just advised against our amendment to actually give that ambition. I wonder what his ambitions are worth. Biodiversity in the Netherlands is not doing well. Only 15% of the species that the Netherlands was once rich are left. What is needed in addition to the national programme already proposed by the State Secretary is underlined by scientific advisory councils of the Planning Bureau for the Environment and the SER. The PvdA has also expressed it on several occasions: abandoning the usual agriculture and completely switching to nature-inclusive agriculture. I have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that adequate protection of biodiversity combined with common agriculture has proved impossible, including a drastic reduction in farmland birds;]] [[Considering that, according to the Planning Office for the Environment (PBL) and the Economic and Social Council, a radical change of direction in agriculture is needed;]] [[believes that, in the long term, we should say goodbye to the common agricultural policy as a whole;]] [[calls on the government to commit to a transition to a fully nature-inclusive agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u635	I come to the welfare of fish. At the request of the Party for Animals, the predecessor of the Secretary of State has studied the hidden suffering of fish during farming and catching. She pressed us to the heart that the suffering of fish has her attention. The motion in which we asked her to update the fish welfare note from 2003 - 13 years old - was not necessary, the Secretary of State said. That's nice, but then it stayed quiet. Why is that? We're still filing the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many fishing methods cause serious injury to fish;]] [[not immediately stunning or killing wild fish, but suffering a prolonged agony;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has made it clear that fish welfare is important;]] [[Whereas the well-being of fish should be reflected in the government's policy of making fisheries more sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government to update the 2003 fish welfare note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u636	There has been a great victory for the environment and biodiversity this week. That victory has been won over the poison manufacturers. The BASF and Monsanto of this world should no longer keep the studies on the effects of their poison on bees, on other animals and on water quality secret. That is what the European Court of Justice has decided this week. That statement was urgently needed and we are very pleased with it, because independent scientists have been calling the bell for years and pointing to the great risks of certain types of agricultural poison, such as the toxic neonix for bees and the hormone-distorting and carcinogenic carcinogenicity. Now, in environmental issues within the EU, poison manufacturers can no longer rely on their own business interests to keep information in chambers. Many companies in the EU made great use of this opportunity. And governments went along with it; so did ours. So this statement this week is really good news. I ask the Secretary of State how he is going to make these studies public, including with retroactive effect, so that independent scientists can examine whether the agricultural poisons now available on the Dutch market do not pose unacceptable risks to biodiversity, the environment and our health. I'd like to hear a response. The Secretary of State may also give it in writing, but as soon as possible. In my first term, I also talked extensively about pet animals, including rashes that suffer from serious birth defects because they are bred on an extreme appearance. There must be an end to this consciously created dog suffering. That is why I am going to put to the vote a motion that has been held, in which I ask for a timetable for the cessation of breeding on extreme external characteristics. And I'm rethinking the illegal puppy trade. Already in 2008, the Chamber supported a motion by the Party for Animals to put an end to this, but the implementation of that motion by the Secretary of State does not show sufficient results. That is why I have tabled two supplementary motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the illicit trade in dogs is large-scale organised crime;]] [[noting that organised crime is the responsibility of the Ministry of Security and Justice;]] [[calls on the Government to place primary responsibility for dealing with illegal dog trafficking in the Ministry of Security and Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that illegal puppy trade is still taking place on a large scale;]] [[noting that compulsory registration of puppies makes little sense if it is not known where the puppies come from;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and in particular to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection,]] [[calls on the Government to allow the registration of puppies to take place in the presence of the dam,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-107]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u637	Before the Secretary of State starts to dissuade this motion, I would like to inform him that former Secretary of State Bleker, who was not known as the one who fought hardest for animal welfare, agreed with the Animal Party that having a puppy chipped in front of the mother by the veterinarian, would provide the best guarantee for animal welfare control and for a successful fight against bread breeding. Preventing impulse purchases prevents much animal suffering, such as dumping, negligible and protruding asylums. I ask the Secretary of State to come up with a plan of action to actually reduce the impulse purchases of animals. I also ask him to restrict the sale of animals to animal specialty stores. As a result, we can prevent a family that is going to buy a few flowers in a garden center on Saturday afternoon from facing cute bunnies that the daughter is interested in, and that family goes home with an animal so unintentionally. I have held a number of motions on this subject, which I would now like to put to the vote. They are about reducing impulse purchases and ending the sale of demonstrably unsuitable housing for pets. Many cases of neglect or poor care are the result of a lack of knowledge. So it's not meant to be, but it's still affecting the animals. The keepers of animal welfare ask politics to give them the opportunity to impose an educational measure as punishment. If someone has neglected his animal because of ignorance, they can't really do that much now. If you're obliging someone to read into what the animals need, then we can help both those people and those animals. I shall therefore put that motion to the vote. Conscious animal abuse must, of course, be tackled vigorously. Structural animal abuse must be combated. The number of reports of neglect and abuse of horses and ponies remains high. We therefore want an end to the horse markets. We shall also put to the vote a motion which has been held. The sector has made a guide to good practice for ensuring the well-being of horses. The enforcers there also ask: make sure that what the sector itself has written is anchored in the law, so that we can maintain when we see that there is neglect. We shall also put to the vote a motion to secure those rules in the law. With regard to the problem of stray cats, the Secretary of State ignores two important bodies, namely the House of Representatives, which adopted a motion for a chip duty for cats, and the Animal Affairs Council, which also recommended this precisely to keep the litter problem under control. The Secretary of State rejects both an opinion and an adopted motion. We really don't understand why he chooses to shoot stray cats instead of having them chipped. We have also held a motion to lower the VAT rate on castration and sterilisation of cats and we will put it to the vote on Tuesday. I have two final points. First of all, climate expenditure in EU funds. Combating climate change is the most important challenge for our generation. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, all policies are geared to this. The agreement was to spend one fifth of the European budget on climate change measures between 2014 and 2020. We are far from achieving this goal, as warned the European Court of Auditors last Tuesday in a special report. Agriculture and fisheries policy and rural development, in particular, are still under way. The European Commission and the Member States are making progress, but for the largest items of expenditure everything remains the same, said Phil Wynn Owen of the European Court of Auditors. It recommends increasing climate policy spending to 22% of the EU budget over the next four years. That's only right. And besides, a deal is a deal. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas combating climate change is urgent;]] [[having noted the EU's commitment to devote at least 20% of its 2014-2020 budget to climate-related action;]] [[noting that the European Court of Auditors concludes that this objective will not be achieved in the near future and that, especially in the field of agricultural and fisheries policy and rural development, the helm is not over;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to make a significant shift towards climate action in the budgets in the areas of agriculture, rural development and fisheries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u638	Finally. The Secretary of State made quite a point that the Animal Party actually wants the bio-industry to be abolished tomorrow. That's not right. We wanted it to be abolished yesterday, or actually 20 years ago. But our proposals are always aimed at the end of the bio-industry and we call on those responsible to do so. No, it's not the farmers themselves, it's politics. Politics determines the scope for livestock farmers to keep their animals, how they can do it and how much development they have for their own farm. Seven farmers a week put into this rat race of scaling up and getting more for less. Our proposals are always aimed at that goal. That is the appeal to the Secretary of State: make it clear that the usual livestock farming, the intensive livestock farming, is unsustainable. Put a point down and then we're all gonna make sure that we do that too, in the interests of animals, in the interests of people, in the interests of nature and especially in the interests of farmers themselves. I'd like to pass that on to the Secretary of State. What the caterpillar calls "the end" is a butterfly for the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u639	Thank you very much. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u640	I see the messenger is taking a picture of all the spokesmen behind the interrupting microphone. The members want the Secretary of State to get a picture, too, but we don't. I would ask Members to take their seats. A joke in time is fun, but we are a serious parliament, even though we have been working for a long time. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the second-term reply and for an opinion on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u641	Mr. Chairman. This is certainly a serious parliament, but I hope that I will hold the group roll back at the end of this debate. That would be a nice joint conclusion to what was for me a nice debate on the future of our agriculture, our food production and our nature. Mr. Chairman. 35 motions have been tabled. I do not think that this is a record, but with the fifteen motions of the Party for Animals that I have heard coming along, it might be a record in the votes. Mr Van Gerven's motion for a resolution 75 on Q fever is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of VWS. I will respond on her behalf after all. As the cabinet has often said, the cabinet is very sympathetic to the victims of Q fever, including chronic Q fever and QVS. The cabinet is also very aware of the great and profound consequences this disease has for the people affected. The cabinet, in consultation with the Chamber, decided to set up and finance the Q-support foundation because of the exceptional and intrusive consequences of the epidemic. 10 million has been earmarked for this purpose. Over the past seven years, it has been discussed more often with the Chamber that the State does not recognise liability for the damage suffered. The government's considerations of not making an individual financial contribution are still valid. We therefore do not need to develop options. The matter of liability is before the judge. He will deliver his verdict on December 14th. I must therefore advise against this motion. Mr Van Gerven, in the motion for a resolution on item No. 1, tabled by Mr Van Gerven, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the There are quite a few good points in that, but also a few points which he knows we have a different view of. Let me mention the regulation of production. That's what we've been talking about. I advise against this motion, and that will not surprise Mr Van Gerven. Mrs Lodders' motion for a resolution 77 is about CRISPR/Cas9. Mrs Lodders asks me to commit myself to an overall exemption from CRISPR/Cas9. I cannot support that request. The motion is based on the false assumption that external genes are not used. That is not always the case. It's not that clear. The Chamber will soon receive my answer to the written questions that have been put. It is not possible to regulate an exemption from European legislation in the Netherlands. This is really something on which the European Commission must take a position. That is why I can accept the second part of the motion. That is also support for policy. However, because of the first part of the request as it appears to be intended, I cannot take over the motion and advise against it. The Lodders motion in part No. 78 is about shares in nature. I said in the debate that I consider social involvement to be of great importance and that I am prepared to consider, through the External Fund, what forms might be conceivable for this. However, I have indicated that the term "shares" suggests a kind of private ownership of State forestry or State forestry projects. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that Mrs Lodders asks me to examine, together with the External Fund, whether there are any forms of social involvement and personal involvement of people and any donors in projects of State Forest Management, then I would like to take over the motion. However, if Mrs Lodder has that different interpretation of'shares', then we are slightly different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u642	On top of the motion, I put "Social Engagement State Forest Management." So we're talking about the same thing. I think it's gonna be wider if I turn it into "shares/vouchers." I may be able to change the motion in that way, but if the Secretary of State wants to see it that way, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u643	Then I'll stick to the last sentence, with the explanation as I gave it. I would like to make it quite clear here, in my view, that I have also done so in the debate: State forestry is simply a public entity. It doesn't fit in with something that's surrounded by private law. The idea that you could become a kind of shareholder of State forest management smells a bit like a kind of privatisation of State forest management. As far as I'm concerned, we shouldn't go that way. So I would also like to avoid any hint of that. If Mrs Lodders is concerned with shaping social engagement, I think that is why she is concerned with giving or inviting people special benefits for special occasions if she is also giving donors to projects, I am prepared to look at them. I'd be happy to investigate those kinds of forms. With that interpretation...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u644	Something's wrong here. This can't be happening. If you take over a motion, you take over the text as it is. In the motion in part No. 78 says "this system of shares." You have made it clear that you do not want it because it can be read otherwise. So, or the petitioner changes the motion so that it becomes clear that it would be shares/vouchers, whatever that may be, and then it can and will just be put to the vote. Or the Secretary of State takes over the motion and then he takes over what's here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u645	May I make it easy for the Secretary of State, Mr. Chairman? Then I turn "shares" into "vouchers." The word "shares" is then out of the text. The word "vouchers" can be used in such a way that it reflects social engagement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u646	If the Secretary of State says he wants to take over amended motion, then we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u647	In this case, I think it is the most purest thing that I leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber, but on a positive basis. The Chamber can then vote on that. I've given my interpretation. I have also made it clear how I will deal with the motion if it is adopted. But once again, I think we share a positive intention, but I have given my interpretation to it. It seems to me that it is only right that the Court should give its opinion on this matter to the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u648	Yes, we can, but the fact is that when we adopt a motion, we simply have to take the text as it stands and not all kinds of interpretations. We're gonna do it differently now. The motion is being changed. You have given an appreciation, which means that you leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u649	The Lodders motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for managing hundreds of thousands of hectares of nature and landscape in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that the Ministry of Forestry is accountable for objectives and budget;]] [[Whereas public involvement in State Forest Management can be enhanced by, for example, the system of vouchers in nature;]] [[calls on the government to investigate this system of vouchers in nature and to start as a test in a number of nature reserves;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of progress before 1 February 2017 and]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 78 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u650	I do this because I want to be able to look at other forms than, for example, just vouchers or whatever. The motion in part No. 79 by Mr Geurts and Mrs Dik-Faber, on company succession. I'd like to take over that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u651	Does any of the Members object to this? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u652	The Geurts/Dik-Faber motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u653	The motion-Geurts c.s. in piece No. 80 I've already done. It calls on the government to make a proactive plea for clarification and possible extension of the competition rules. It is up to the Commission to assess the opinion of Mr Veerman's working group. I have already done so in the last Agriculture Council, in response to the opinion of the working group. I have called on the Commission to look at the tension that the working party signals between competition law on the one hand and the possibilities that the working group would have for farmers to organise themselves and to make all kinds of arrangements on the other. In addition, the motion calls on the government to make the recommendations of the working group Dutch in the negotiations for the forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy. The chapter on the future of the common agricultural policy, as I have said before, fits seamlessly into the commitment I myself have expressed earlier and sent to the Chamber. I therefore consider this motion to be a policy support. I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion-Geurts c.s. in piece No. 81 the government is invited to launch an investigation into organic substances that can be used as soil improvers, with no negative impact on the manure placement area, such as plus quality compost. I'm willing to do that investigation. It's too early to count that plus quality compost at all in the manure accounts, but I'm willing to look into that. I am also happy to comply with the first request in the motion. I would like to make a brief comment on the motion for a resolution before the Chamber, but I see it as a support for the commitment I am very happy to make. In the motion-Van der Velde/Van Dekken on piece No. 82 the government is invited to contribute to the broadening of the Better Life label. I said in the debate that the project for the broadening of this label, both to dairy products and to environmental criteria, was launched under the Sustainable Farming Implementing Agenda (UDV) and was partly financed by the UDV Grants Scheme, which was last opened in 2015. So I've already contributed to that. In that sense, I could say that I have already carried out the motion in the past; in this case, my predecessor has done so. The follow-up step of the project is to run the number of pilots. In substance, the request is best in line with the philosophy of the Food Agenda. I have made it clear in the debate that I am committed to repeating here that the better life mark is the animal protection mark. Together with Nature & Environment, we are working on broadening. The label isn't from the government. I'm always willing to talk about that. I have regular conversations with the Animal Protection and with Nature & Environment, but I cannot in any way take responsibility for the further development of the Better Life label. With those remarks, first of all that I have already contributed and secondly that I am always willing to discuss, I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I would like to point out, however, that at least in 2017 I no longer have any free means to support this issue. The Leenders/Jacobi motion in part No. 83 is about the beautiful note Green and Water in the city. I read that note with great interest and enthusiasm, as I say to Mr Leenders. That's the answer I owed him. There are many fine points in it that are not all in my area, but also in other rulers or other levels of government. I go in consultation with IPO and VNG to give this theme a separate place at the nature summit. I am happy to draw attention to the fine social initiatives mentioned in the note. In that sense, I see the motion as supporting policy. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. In the Leenders/Van Dekken motion in part No. 84 the government is invited to draw up a detailed plan for the transition from common to natural-inclusive agriculture. I said in the debate that I am prepared to work out a number of scenarios and to ensure that the Chamber receives them in the spring. That is not, strictly speaking, a plan of action. Mr Leenders gave a small opening, but swallowed it again by saying that it could also be a starting document. I see this promised distribution of scenarios as actually a starting document that you can use to further shape the policy in a subsequent period. If I may interpret it that way, I'm prepared to take over the motion. I'm not allowed to interpret, so I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u654	Mr Leenders must say whether he shares this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u655	As far as I'm concerned, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u656	If the Secretary of State wishes to take over the motion, I'd like to object.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u657	He didn't say that: he left it to the judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u658	Okay, first time he wanted to take over. If the judgment is Chamber, then it is good, because the first consideration is not in line with the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u659	Judgement of Chamber, but I have focused mainly on the operative part. I am concerned about what the Chamber is asking the government to do. What considerations do you have to consider yourself in this case? The motion in part No. 85 of Mr Leenders and Mr Geurts are concerned with nature volunteers, and are asked to make clear agreements on funding within three months and to inform them before 1 March 2017. I have also indicated in the progress letter that there is a joint programme for work on nature by the province and nature organisations. As soon as there is more clarity about the content of the programme, there must be a willingness to make a financial contribution to this catch-up. This also requires commitment to the nature organisations and the provinces. I expect the contours to be ready early next year. On this basis, decisions can be taken on the contributions of the Empire, the twelve provinces and the nature organisations. Many parties are involved, and that takes time. To realize it, a three-month deadline is very tight. I will call on all the organisations involved to reach concrete agreements as soon as possible, but I fear that the date of 1 March 2017 will not be realistic. On that note, I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u660	That's good. A little more time isn't such a problem, as long as it comes to fruition in spring. It was also a motion from us last year, so with this interpretation that is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u661	I have to object to this from the custody of the trial. It says 'March 1, 2017' and we're going to vote on that later. If you are now saying that it is actually going to be a different date, you must amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u662	Then I'll edit her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u663	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u664	My question is the same to the Secretary of State for the primary purpose of funding from the provinces and the social parties. Otherwise, it is an uncovered motion and should therefore be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u665	The fact that I have said in my contribution that I am willing to contribute indicates that I myself have cover within my budget to support such a project. I have just said this in response. Yes, it is up to the provinces and nature organisations, but the Empire can also contribute to this, and I will accept it within my budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u666	In the debate with Mr Leenders a different interpretation was given. That'll make it complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u667	Not quite, because you asked first and then you asked second. You never asked for tertiary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u668	I do not interpret the motion in the sense that an adjustment is needed in my budget, let that be clear. It's not about extra money. Then the motion to part No. 86 to give the sheepfolds a future for March 1, 2017. I'm gonna suggest to the petitioners that they hold the motion. As I said, I am in consultation with provinces, land managers and other stakeholders to look for solutions, including for funding. I support the development of heather farms, with which the position of sheepherds is structurally anchored. I want a structural solution to be found. With the Nature Pact, the primary responsibility for solving the financing problem of the sheep herd has been laid with the provinces. As the motion has now been formulated, it is not in line with that division of roles between the Empire and the provinces. I like the motion and I have worked for it, as we know, but structural support is really a responsibility of the provinces. I'm in agreement with the parties and I'll inform the Chamber about the outcome. Before March 1st, I will be able to inform the Chamber if it has succeeded. I cannot carry out the motion because it calls for structural funding, so I must discourage it. Hence my suggestion to hold the motion until the Chamber has received more information on how the consultation ends and where it leads.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u669	Can I ask you a question? What are scavenged sheepfolds? What's scooping? I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u670	Mr. Chairman. You're asking me over, too. That is the term used for sheep herding accompanied by a shepherd in the nature reserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u671	I'll look it up later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u672	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Graus/Dijkgraaf motion in part No. 87. That is what we discussed in the debate. Mr Graus suggested that there was a discrepancy between the interests of farmers, growers and fishermen over that of the European Union. I have argued that this goes hand in hand and that precisely our farmers, growers and fishermen have a great interest in European cooperation, because they make a lot of money thanks to this European cooperation, so I would advise against this motion. Then I come to the Graus motion on part No. 88, in which he asks the government to step up its efforts to tackle dog fighting and other animal-related crime, including illegal dog trafficking. That has all the attention of police, NVWA and LID, who work closely together. They do so with the available capacity and as smart as possible. In recent months, two major traders, among others, have been dealt with. If Mr Graus means that the government must make the best possible effort, I see the motion as supporting policy. If he means more capacity for it, so more budget, then I have to discourage the motion, because the motion does not provide for more budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u673	No, I was referring to that first one, so the Secretary of State calls that policy support. Here too, the problem is often in the Public Prosecutor's Office. I do know that the Secretary of State is now going to refer to Security and Justice. That's where we'll bring it in. But the Secretary of State can also exert pressure, so that more happens in the public prosecutor's office in the field of animals. With all due respect, I'm calling the pony crushes; those are those fat chicks that literally crush pony's. It's sad to laugh about that. Those people's case has expired because they have a statute of limitations. A lot of cases of serious animal abuse are time-barred because the D.A. doesn't give it a priority at all. I meant the Secretary of State has to do everything he can. I've asked several files to put pressure on the D.A.'s office. The Secretary of State for Animal Welfare can do that, because the Minister for Security and Justice is not doing enough about it, and he is responsible for animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u674	Sometimes there are images you'd rather not see. Mr Graus started the last time in general discussions on pony-pults. Then I thought, "I want to know what that is." I had set it on Google, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. If the chairman thinks I'm gonna look it up, I'm gonna say don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u675	It's like two to twelve. I've just found out that scavenged sheep are being led by a shepherd and dogs. We've looked everything up. Then we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u676	Yes. "Ponypatterts" was the following. If I show the Minister of Security and Justice the same footage, he will be convinced that a full commitment is needed. It is good that Mr Graus is discussing these matters with the Minister for Security and Justice. As a result of this debate, I will draw this Minister's attention to the importance of tackling animal-related crime, and hence pony crushes. I shall refer to the Graus motion in part No. 89, in which the Government is invited to provide training for veterinary forensic research in cooperation with the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. An elective course of forensic veterinary medicine already exists at the Faculty of Utrecht University. The NFI is working on that, too. Also the task holders of animal welfare of the police share knowledge with students there. In this sense, it is therefore a policy support. If Mr Graus refers to something that goes further, namely a whole new training, then I must advise against the motion, because we cannot achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u677	What do you mean, Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u678	The Secretary of State has already responded to that first in a letter. I read it this morning. I asked for it myself last year. I made a request last year regarding the recognition of animal cruelty by veterinarians. To what do you recognize a hematoma that caused two dogs, and to what do you recognize a hematoma caused by humans, by kicking or beating? That's what I asked myself. The first veterinary forensic pathologist is Monique Verkerk. She's a Dutch vet. She studied four to five years in America.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u679	Can you cut to the chase?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u680	I have to explain that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u681	Mr. Graus, it's noon. Can you ask your question specifically and briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u682	Mr President, this is a budget debate! We don't work here at the grocery store on the corner, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u683	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u684	We are members of the States General. I'll be very brief. If you hadn't interrupted me, I'd be done by now. That's the kind of training that should be here. The Netherlands is an example country. All countries follow us, including the animal police and immediately in the field of veterinary forensics. The Netherlands must remain an example country. I am simply asking for veterinary and forensic veterinarians to be trained in the Netherlands as well. That's just my question. The Faculty of Veterinary Medicine would like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u685	My answer was that there is already an elective in forensic veterinary medicine. That is what Utrecht University is currently offering. If that does not go far enough for Mr Graus and he really wants a new education, then I must discourage the motion. By the way, this is not my responsibility. It also requires additional resources, which are not provided for. I have the impression that Mr Graus is referring to a very new and very specific training. If that's the case, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to discourage the motion. I shall now turn to Mrs Koşer Kaya's motion on part No. 90. The request made therein falls primarily under the policy responsibility of the Minister of the United States of America. It is about food safety. The legal framework for the liability statement referred to by Mrs Koşer Kaya exists. Anyone can use that already. I advise against this motion because it is unnecessary. I would advise Mrs Koşer Kaya to discuss this subject with the person responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u686	We're on half the motions. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u687	The Koşer Kaya motion in part No. 91 is about implementing the Reuse of Public Sector Information Act by NVWA. That's policy support. In the written reply I indicated that the technical problems must be resolved as quickly as possible and that, as far as possible, the NVWA will make information available within the framework of the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act and the Personal Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u688	What about judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u689	Sorry. I said support policy. I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide whether it will accept this motion after all. In the motion in part No. 92 is called for a design approach. We have previously invited people from Agri meets Design to the department and also looked at design in that way. I also know from a certain party member who is active in Eindhoven that such an approach can work very refreshingly. So I think it is an interesting idea, but that does not apply to the objective that Mrs Koşer Kaya wants to achieve, namely to analyse current legislation and to propose improvements. We just got a new law on both fronts. In the field of nature, that is the Nature Protection Act. Legislation in the field of agriculture will be discussed again next week; there will also be a new law. I would not want to leave the suggestion of amending new laws hanging over the market. That is why I advise against this motion, although I find the approach very interesting and I would also like to see how we can benefit more from it within the department. Then I come to the motion in part No. 93) on transparency in agricultural subsidies. We discussed this with each other last year. I have indicated to Mrs Koşer Kaya, as well as to the Chamber, that it is already being made public, which can be made public. Grants in the field of the common agricultural policy, as well as evaluations of social contributions, shall be made public. In the case of evaluations, this is done both by the person responsible and by the General Court. Anything that can be made public will therefore be made public. In that sense, the motion supports policy. I leave it to the Court to decide whether it intends to adopt the motion, but that seems to me to be somewhat superfluous in this case. The motion in part No. 94 of the Christian Union is about the imvo-convenant, international corporate social responsibility on the farmyard. The cabinet has indeed signed the declaration of intent. We are closely involved in the elaboration of this and we have promised procedural money. I think it is too early to make concrete commitments on instruments, because the trajectory has just started. The farmers' inheritance process is intended to come up with plans and initiatives together. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I see it as a support for policy and leave it to the Chamber to judge. I come to the motion in part No. 95 on the evaluation of the Young Farmer's Scheme. I have just taken over Mr Geurts' motion on succession. This is also very relevant for young farmers. In this case, I am asked to do a number of things in the context of the evaluation. However, the implementation of the Young Farmer Scheme is the responsibility of the provinces. The fact that we have opened up this scheme nationally was actually a kind of service, a service, to the provinces. However, the provinces are responsible for this scheme, so they have to do the evaluation. I'm assuming NAJK will be involved. I urge the provinces to do so, but I don't think this is necessary. Party mates in the States can also insist on this with Deputy States of the various provinces. As regards lowering the investment threshold, this should fit in with the EU regulation. As regards adding options: that is a choice of the provinces themselves. That really needs to be discussed there. I must therefore discourage this motion because I cannot and should not carry it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u690	As a former Member of the European Parliament, I fully understand what the Secretary of State is saying here. However, I also see the importance of young farmers. It concerns the difference in implementation practice in the different provinces. The predecessor of this State Secretary has called on the provinces to improve the uniformity of the regime. That's what worked. As a follow-up, this motion was drafted: not to take over responsibilities, but to check, from a piece of direction or coordination, whether the JOLA is being implemented in such a way that it is more in line with farming practice, and whether provinces also coordinate it. So, not to get it back, but to follow up on what the minister's predecessor has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u691	What do you expect from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u692	That he's crazy and he's getting to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u693	I understand Mrs Dik-Faber's question very well. I myself consulted with the provinces a little less than a year ago on opening up the young farmer scheme, also because the provinces themselves were actually opposed to it. That was really a service to the provinces. The advantage was that there was one uniform arrangement. I imagine it's attractive for the provinces to do it that way again. We can talk about this with each other, as long as it is clear that the responsibility lies with the provinces. That is why I have a little difficulty with the motion as it has now been formulated. The motion calls on the government to do something that is really the competence of the provinces. I don't want to go in there. In her motion in part No. 96 Ms Dik-Faber asked the government to agree with the provinces on the POP3 funds, i.e. the excess resources for agricultural nature management, aimed at the conservation of farmland birds. In fact, I said in the debate that this was under-utilisation. This does not necessarily mean that money is left, because not all of the funds needed to be spent in 2015. In the coming years these can still be spent on the planned schemes. So this motion is a little premature. I have promised the Chamber in my written answers that I would like to discuss whether there is room for an additional commitment to agricultural nature management, such as for farmland birds. If Mrs Dik-Faber agrees that I interpret the 'agreements' in her motion in such a way that I am discussing them, the motion could support the policy and I can leave it to the Chamber. However, if she insists on making agreements, then the same argument actually applies as before. But I'd be happy to talk to the provinces about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u694	As a member of the state, I always found it very complicated when the government came along. I understand very well what the Secretary of State says. I will amend the motion and hope that there will be nice arrangements from the discussion that will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u695	We both have that hope. With that amendment, I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 97 calls on the Government to re-establish the Multifunctional Agriculture Task Force. It's been there five years and it was funded. He has produced very good results, but support from the government seems no longer necessary, especially since LTO itself has taken over the work of the task force. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 98 is about the meadow birds. I have just said that I want to develop a number of scenarios for nature-inclusive agriculture. I am prepared to include the state of the meadow birds in those scenarios. I hope that the proposers will find that commitment a proper implementation of what they are asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u696	Unfortunately, the motion is very clear about what the proposers would like to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u697	When it comes to the proposers' new approach, that is something I recently sent to the Chamber. They are talking about a national plan of action and want the Empire to pull this all the way towards it, and therefore does not work in good coordination with the provinces, which is the case now. In that case, I can't take over this motion, so I have to advise her not to. After all, I have just sent the Chamber a plan of action. The motion in part No. 99 is the proposal to transfer the funds from the first pillar of the common agricultural policy to the second. I have said in general consultation that, given the European rules, this is an option. This could be done before August 2017, but the Chamber has previously indicated that it wants to maintain the current distribution. I said earlier that if the Chamber has a different view on this now, the cabinet should follow that view. This is where I fit only to await the judgment of the Chamber. The Chamber has previously adopted a motion stating that the budget would not be taken over. If the Chamber doesn't feel that way, I'll hear it and do it properly. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 99 to the Chamber. In the motion Grashoff/Dijkgraaf in part No. 100 the government is asked to ask the Planning Office for the Environment and the Agriculture Economic Institute to look back at the analyses on releasing the milk quota. At the moment, my priority is the future and the maintenance of the derogation. In that respect, it's all hands on deck. If we have succeeded, I have no objection to an evaluation which looks back at the way in which the analyses were carried out at the time, but in that order. With that interpretation I leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 100 to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u698	Is this also the interpretation in which the authors of the motion agree? If I remember the debate correctly, it was a bit different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u699	The answer given by the Secretary of State is such that I do not yet see a great deal of tension. The motion gives room until the summer of 2017. If the phosphate question had not been resolved, I think we really have quite different problems. I believe there's enough room in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u700	As Mr Grashoff knows, the discussions on a future derogation will certainly continue throughout the following year. However, we can always make a request or put a question to the Planning Bureau for the Environment and the Agriculture Economic Institute to look back on the analyses of the past. Whether they can have completed that before the summer of 2017, we wait. If the Chamber the motion in part No. 100, I will pass on the motion request to the two institutes. In the motion in part No. 101, tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber, invites the government to reconsider the proposed abolition of the VAT agricultural regime. This VAT exemption is being used less and less; farmers are increasingly keeping accounts, so that they do not need the exemption. They may also make use of the Small Entrepreneurship Scheme. The budget has been deployed since 2018 to avoid cuts in the agricultural budget due to the exchange rate problem. Without coverage, it is not possible to reconsider the abolition of the VAT agricultural scheme. I would add that the impact of this will only be in the Tax Plan next year, so the authors of the motion have another year to provide cover. As the motion has now been formulated, I must, of course, advise against it, because it is not covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u701	The Secretary of State basically just says: new cabinet, figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u702	No, the cabinet has entered the abolition of the VAT agricultural regime in the budget as a saving to cope with the setback on the terms of trade. If the cabinet had not done so, I should have cut the agricultural budget for an equal amount. Given the decline in the use of the VAT agricultural scheme, this seemed to me to be the least painful option of all the savings available. The cabinet simply booked the savings, so as far as the cabinet is concerned, the VAT agricultural tax will be abolished from 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u703	I understand that, but we also had this discussion in the discussion of the Tax Plan. It's not settled. There is no legal basis for abolishing the regime, so a new cabinet will have to fight again for a majority in the two chambers supporting the abolition of the regime. It had adorned the cabinet to just settle the matter in the Tax Plan. That could have been done, but apparently the cabinet did not choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u704	No, the Tax Plan always sees on the next calendar year. The Tax Plan now before the Chamber sees the year 2017. This budgetary change does not apply to this. This budgetary change will take place in the calendar year 2018 and beyond. This means that it will only be included in the next tax plan. This applies to the cabinet every year. Each year, it must ensure that its plans and budget are supported by a majority in both chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u705	I have been able to deal with seven tax plans during the period I am here and we have come across many measures in those tax plans with a later date than 1 January. It's a choice of the cabinet, but I think it's an unfair choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u706	Yes, but you didn't have a question about the Secretary of State's advice anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u707	The motion in part No. 102 was signed by members Dijkgraaf, Geurts, Dik-Faber, Graus, Grashoff, Koşer Kaya, Van Gerven, Leenders, Lodders and Ouwehand. That motion calls on the government to consult with the fruit-growing sector to come forward with a short-term approach to ensure that the availability of organic plant protection products for fruit production improves significantly, including through structural exemption for relevant biological plant protection products. I must, of course, discourage this motion. Mr Dijkgraaf asked me to do so. I don't need this motion to start that conversation, because I'd be happy to. I cannot promise that this will lead to a structural exemption for relevant biological plant protection products in advance, because this is simply the subject of the normal assessment procedures. My commitment is to extend the range of green plant protection products, low-risk products and, therefore, products suitable for organic farming everywhere. I'm happy to do this, so I don't need a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u708	Then I am glad that the motion has been dissuaded, because that means that if it is adopted, the literal text will apply, and a broader mandate will be given to the Secretary of State. I am therefore very pleased with this judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u709	Mr Dijkgraaf had asked for this and I did not want to disappoint him. The motion calls for a discussion on improving the availability of biological plant protection products. I will certainly enter into that discussion if the motion is adopted and if the motion is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u710	I understand that it is late, but it says: invites the government, in consultation with the fruit-growing sector, to come forward with a plan of action in the short term. That's the literal text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u711	And that plan of action still has to take care of something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u712	Yes. We're all Dutch. The motion has been dissuaded. The vote will show whether the Secretary of State should do more than just engage in the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u713	I am happy to enter into that conversation, but my options within that conversation are limited by the European regulations, as Mr Dijkgraaf is aware, and I cannot ignore that. I am prepared to talk about everything that fits into European legislation and I would like to look at what is possible, because I want to go in the same direction as Mr Dijkgraaf: I want to extend the range of resources that is suitable for the organic sector and I want to speed up the authorisation of low-risk products, of green plant protection products. So that fits in perfectly with the policy direction I am putting in place. I have only one limitation: it has to fit into European legislation. The motion-Ouwehand/Thieme in part No. 103 is about Kroondomain Het Loo. For Kroondomain Het Loo, a subsidy scheme is in force, as for all areas where nature management takes place. This arrangement allows for the closure of part of the crown domain. The subsidy Regulation shall apply until 2021. For the crown domain is acted within the terms of the grant scheme. An area of 1,300 hectares of the crown domain is open all year round; the remaining 5,000 hectares are open most of the year. I cannot respond to the request to open the entire crown domain to the public throughout the year, so I advise against the motion. The motion-Ouwehand/Thieme in part No. 104 is about the gunshot of swans. As Mrs Ouwehand knows, the provinces are responsible for establishing the killing methods. It can therefore best have the motion filed by its fellow party members in the Provincial States. This is where I have to discourage the motion, because it doesn't fit into my jurisdiction. That's covered by the Nature Protection Act. With the motion in part No. 105 Mrs Ouwehand is actually ahead of what I have just promised in the Chamber, namely the development of scenarios to achieve a nature-inclusive agriculture. Now that I am prepared to do so, I think it is premature. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 105. However, I have already promised that I would like to work out these scenarios, as requested by the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 106 is requested to update the fish welfare note. Fish welfare is an integral part of the animal welfare policy letter of 4 October 2013. The research I support on animal-friendly killing methods follows from this. We're at the forefront of this in Europe. The resources are limited. So I don't need a new welfare note. So I advise against this motion. I say in response to the motion in part No. 107 that there is good cooperation between the police and the NVWA in dealing with the illegal trade in dogs. I see no need to change anything about that. So I'm also dissuading that motion. In the motion in part No. 108 the government is requested to have puppies chipped in the presence of the dam. There will be a letter before the end of the year on the improvement of I&R dog. In addition, I will also deal with the chipping of dogs. I therefore ask Mrs Ouwehand to hold the motion. If she puts it to the vote now, I have to advise against the motion. Then there is the motion in part No. 109, calling on the government to urge the European Commission to make a significant shift towards climate action in the budgets in the areas of agriculture, rural development and fisheries. I see this motion as a support for policy, because my commitment to the debate on the future of the common agricultural policy is based on making use of the budgets in a way that is more focused on social objectives, such as nature, climate and landscape. The commitment is a significant change in the common agricultural policy. If Mrs Ouwehand means that by her motion, I see the motion as supporting policy. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. If Mrs Ouwehand means anything else, namely a shift from the budgets to very different objectives, I have to take the motion in part. 109 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u714	I see some wild gestures I can't bring home. Mrs. Lodders?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u715	I wonder what it really is now. I hear the Secretary of State responding to the motion in part No. 109. He says: if it is, then the judgment could be Chamber because then it is support of policy. I think that's a pretty far-reaching statement. I'd like to hear more about that. What exactly does the Secretary of State mean by that? I would also like to make it clear to the author of this motion. What does she mean by the motion in part No. 109?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u716	Mrs Lodders asked me a question first. I said that my commitment to the common agricultural policy is as expressed in Mr Veerman's report, for example. This is the commitment to linking the budgets for the common agricultural policy more closely to performance agreements, to climate, sustainability, nature and landscape performance. That's a significant change. It is not entirely clear to me what the petitioner means. If she is satisfied with that commitment, then she does not really need to table a motion. Then it's policy support. If she means that things would have to be very different, I'd advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u717	I object to the Secretary of State's explanation. The motion clearly states that "the government is asking the European Commission to press for a significant shift towards climate action in the budgets in the areas of agriculture, rural development and fisheries." That is quite different from what I have heard from this Secretary of State on the common agricultural policy in recent years. We should focus much more on innovation. Then we can find each other. But it doesn't say that here. It's fundamentally different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u718	It is difficult to interpret a motion that is not quite clear. It is precisely within the future common agricultural policy that a contribution from agriculture to climate change needs to be made. We have often exchanged views that agriculture can also be part of the solution. This can therefore also be supported by the CAP. Now that is not part of the CAP. In a future CAP, that will have to be a part of it. In that sense, I say that this shift is the issue that the debate is about at the moment. There are more changes within the CAP that are being discussed. That is why I said: if the applicant is satisfied with that, if she thinks it is a good commitment and if she means it by the motion, it seems to me to support the policy. If she means another shift, I have to discourage the adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u719	We're going to see the performer in between. It must now choose between tactical and principled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u720	When the VVD comes out of the seats about a motion, you know you did something right. I don't think the motion is very unclear. The European Court of Auditors has said that the agreement we have made is not being complied with. I ask the Secretary of State to urge the European Commission to comply with this agreement. I think that the difference between the Animal Party and the VVD is that we do value the fact that this shift of budgets towards climate action is significant, as was also agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u721	If that is the interpretation of Mrs Ouwehand, so if it really is a shift from the budget to other objectives, I would advise against the motion, because then she makes a non-realistic demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u722	That is crazy, because I am talking about the agreement that has already been made, which the European Court of Auditors has said is not being complied with, particularly on the budgets for agriculture, fisheries and rural development. It's an existing agreement. I ask the Secretary of State to make it clear to the European Commission that the Netherlands considers it important that we keep this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u723	This is precisely why I said that we need to be clear about what we mean, namely that within the agricultural budget, indeed in the future common agricultural policy that will run from 2020, it is the government's commitment to take account of the climate objectives and that the future common agricultural policy is also used for this purpose. That is not the current common agricultural policy. That has a place in it to a very limited extent. In the future common agricultural policy, climate policy must have a place, innovation must have a place and social achievements such as nature and landscape must have a place. That is exactly what I am committed to. If Mrs Ouwehand says 'no, there is still a shift from agricultural budget to a specific climate budget' today, we are going in a very different direction and I would advise against this motion. I think that, in view of the discussion, it is best to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u724	That surprises me, because the motion calls on the government simply to follow up on a ruling from the European Court of Auditors. Actually, the Secretary of State says, no, that's far too radical for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u725	Is the Secretary of State coming to a different conclusion as a result of this interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u726	No, Mr President, because we do have a different picture in mind. Then I have a few more questions to answer. Mrs Ouwehand asked for a letter about a plan of action to monitor the way in which damage was demonstrated. It was about the fight against damage. Consultations have been held with the provinces and the fauna management units on the new role and composition of fauna management units. Such consultations took place on 2 November. This means that we can now talk about the supervisory structure. I intend to inform the Chamber in February, as we discussed with each other. In February, the Chamber will receive the promised information. Mrs Ouwehand asked for reports from companies producing plant protection products to be made public. I was allowed to answer that question in writing, so I will be happy to do so. Mr Grashoff asked for a motion on meadow birds from 2015. He has a different judgment on that than I do. I believe that I have followed that motion, although not to the satisfaction of Mr Grashoff; unfortunately that can happen. I think the intentions of him and me are similar, but he expects a firmer commitment to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u727	Thank you for the commitment that we will receive a letter on that ruling by the European Court on the publication of the studies. Could that letter be there for Christmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u728	In doing so, Mrs Ouwehand asks me, because that is a very short time. You want almost everything, I noticed, by mid-March 2017. Let me try that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u729	At the top of the list of plenary debates to be held is the use of poison in agriculture. If that plenary debate were to take place, it would simply be a shame if we...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u730	Wait, I'm sorry, you just mean answering your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u731	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u732	Oh, yeah, we're gonna do that real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u733	For Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u734	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u735	Mrs. Lodders, are you sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u736	I am sure, Mr President, because I have asked another question that I have not had an answer to. Last year I tabled a motion for a resolution on precision farming in the budget. The Secretary of State has indicated that he would discuss that motion with the sector in January. Is the Secretary of State prepared to share the outcome with the Chamber before 15 February?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u737	I'm definitely gonna try. I understand that 15 February is an even more important date than 15 March, because that date means that we can also discuss it with each other before perhaps separating our paths. You've got a beautiful spot on the VVD list, so I think we'll meet here after March 15th. Mr President, I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u738	The final foundative words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u739	I'm not much of a blessing, although I've had quite a Catholic upbringing at home. I would like to thank the Chamber for this good debate, with its content and its differences of opinion, but, as far as I am concerned, with great respect for each other's views and I was pleased. These are important issues: the future of our food supply and the future of our nature. If we hope for a rapid formation of a new cabinet, this will have been the last budget of this cabinet, a cabinet that has worked with great conviction and passion to improve the future of our agriculture, our food supply and our nature. I would like to thank you all for the debates we have had on this subject, and I hope that the next cabinet will continue to do so with the same enthusiasm. Finally, I would like to thank the support in the rear bank here, but certainly also all the staff in my department who have worked in the department until the middle of the night and also tonight until after midnight to support this debate, from this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-9.u740	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his very comprehensive reply. We shall vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday, on the amendments and on the legislative proposal at a later date in December.
