ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. We just got back from recess. Most of us have had a few nice days, no doubt also with the children. That's very important. This is quality time, important for the relaxation and development of children. But last week it became clear that more and more children in the Netherlands, 421,000, almost one in eight children, are at risk of poverty. They can't even leave for a week all year. One in eight, 421.000 children, means that on average three children per school class may be in class without breakfast, that they can't go on a school trip and that they can't buy clothes, let alone go to sports or music lessons. All this is oh so important for the personal development of children, but also for society, also for living together. In Rotterdam it is one in four children: one in four children grows up in poverty in a city like Rotterdam. How is this possible? How could it have gone so horribly wrong that since 2010, the number of children growing up in poverty has increased by over 100,000? I've talked to a lot of people in neighborhoods and neighborhoods in the last few weeks. Those were worthy, proud people. Very often, they're working poor. Or they're looking for work. They just can't make ends meet anymore. I will simply give the answer to the Secretary of State: this is because of the austerity policy, which affects the lower and middle incomes. It makes the rich richer and the poor poorer. There's a solution, an alternative. Is this Secretary of State prepared to raise the statutory minimum wage and the social minimum so that people on low incomes can also live a normal life?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut rightly says that combating child poverty in the Netherlands and, moreover, worldwide is, of course, essential. The figures of the CBS are not new, because I wrote to the Chamber on them in January and February. Those figures shall run until 2014. Fortunately, the CPB also offers an insight into 2015 and 2016. This shows that, fortunately, the number of children growing up in poverty, or at least in low-income families, is shrinking. However, from the outset we have made a huge effort to combat child poverty. We did that together with the municipalities and we still do. This year, of course, we have increased child benefit for families with children and increased the child-related budget. This year the childcare allowance has also been increased. Furthermore, tax discounts have been applied for families with children. We have provided 100 million additional structural funds for the fight against poverty for municipalities. Municipalities are extremely busy supporting children with the child package. That's very funny. We have also provided funding to the Foundation for Leergeld, the Youth Sports Fund and the Youth Culture Fund. A specific sports impulse for children in low-income neighbourhoods has also been created. Furthermore, thanks to the Chamber, we have 8 million available to give extra impulses. In short, a large package has been made to combat child poverty. Last but not least: I recently asked the Children's Ombudsman to carry out further research into reducing poverty among children at local level. And on the basis of an approved motion by the Senior Member of Parliament Van Apeldoorn, I will also ask the SER to investigate. So we are doing a great deal, because Mrs Karabulut has a point: children must not grow up in poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	I have a point. Despite the crisis, we are still one of the richest and wealthiest countries in the world. I would like to answer my question to the Secretary of State. I don't want any wipes for the bleeding. The 100 million that the Secretary of State mentions, she has already spent a hundred times. On the other hand, there is an austerity package of more than 50 billion. My question to the Secretary of State was, is and remains: is she willing to raise the legal minimum wage and the social minimum so that people have something left in their wallet to live a normal life?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	I have just mentioned the increased childcare allowance, as have the tax rebates, the increase in family allowances and the increase in the child-related budget. We have already done a great deal in that regard. I would like to say that the Netherlands is not bad at all in comparison to the international perspective in terms of this chapter. The proportion of children growing up in poverty is on average 27% according to the EU definition, but in our case it is much and much lower, namely 17%. In fact, only Denmark, Finland and Sweden are doing a little better. According to Unicef, this is a renowned, global institution, our children in the Netherlands are among the happiest children in the world. Of course, I do not want to say that it is not difficult for children to grow up in a family with a very small wallet. I don't want to put that under the carpet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	Difficult? The Secretary of State is responsible for one in four children growing up in poverty in a city like Rotterdam. Then the Secretary of State may come up with 100 reports, but this means in concrete terms that these families do not have enough resources to buy food. That's how basic it is. I'll present to the Secretary of State some more international research. Last week it was announced that the Netherlands is champion of tax avoidance and evasion. The cabinet does not agree with the large multinationals, so that they pay no or less tax and we miss 5 billion a year. For example, if the Secretary of State is looking for resources, she could do so. The richest 1% received 23 billion in 2013, while the lowest incomes are on an average debt of €57,000. What I'm trying to say is that if you run unfair policies, where the rich get beaten up and middle incomes and low incomes get caught, you're gonna have 421.000 children growing up in poverty. I have one question: if the Secretary of State does not want to take structural measures, is she at least prepared to guarantee that all children can have food, clothing, sport and culture in all municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	In fact, all B and W lectures throughout the Netherlands have put this topic on the agenda extremely high in recent years. I am glad of that; let me say that. All lectures of B and W work with the child package, of which sports and music lessons are part. In short, huge steps forward have already been taken. Wherever I can, I'll help the lectures further forward. In this respect, the answer is in a broad sense: yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	The most unfair policy you can pursue when it comes to poverty is keeping the borders open. If you keep the borders open, you get situations like, for example, a month ago, when 5,500 families were put out on the street, while those houses then, with priority, go to asylum seekers, to immigrants under the heading of refugees. Is the Secretary of State prepared to acknowledge that without open borders and without mass immigration from Islamic countries, poverty in the Netherlands would have been much less? In fact, is she prepared to acknowledge that the whole of the Netherlands would have had a much better prosperity and a much better well-being and that we could have done our best, on our own initiative per person, to help people abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	This argument has often been made here. I constantly respond to that by saying that we have fortunately always received people in our country, for centuries. We certainly didn't get wind of that. As far as the families who have ended up on the streets are concerned, fortunately, there is so much preventive action being taken by the larger cities that the number of home expulsions is significantly lower than before. That gives the public the courage to be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	Of course, the measures taken by this cabinet have not yet been able to influence the figures that are still coming out. Having said that, every child growing up in poverty is one too many for the Labour Party. I have the following supplementary question to the questions raised earlier by colleagues. We have recently spent extra money on budget treatment for children who grow up in poverty so that they can exercise. Can the Secretary of State provide an insight into how that works out? In what way does money achieve the children who grow up in poverty, for whomever participating, participation is extremely important for their development?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mrs Yücel rightly says that these figures go until 2014. I have just said that the Central Planning Bureau for 2015 and 2016 fortunately sees these figures carefully adjusted downwards. That's very funny. With the Van Dekken/Yücel amendment, additional funds were made available in the budget treatment, namely 5 million for sports for children with little money in neighbourhoods where it is simply difficult. For the forthcoming budget debate, I would like to give an insight into the results of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you.
