ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u1	I understand that Mr Ulenbelt is replacing Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's very good when people... No, I'm gonna wait for the Secretary of State to sit down. That's so neat. Mr. Chairman. It's very good when people help other people. The churches in the Netherlands have a very nice tradition in this area, but these same churches now sound a cry for help and have strong criticism of the policy of Secretary of State Klijnsma. 50,000 people knocked on the church door for help. That's an increase of 25%. They knocked on the door for need for bread; that's when the costs have risen so high that you can't afford the first living needs anymore. Emergency assistance has been provided to prevent gas and light from being cut off and help is given to prevent home expulsions. The churches spent about 36 million on that. The aid organisation Church in Action says: the policy of the Labour Party and the VVD affects the poor disproportionately. According to the aid organisation Church in Action, the government assumes too easily that organisations like the churches can simply take over the task of the government. Does the Secretary of State agree with this criticism of the churches? At the beginning of this year, my group asked for a delta plan to combat poverty. The Secretary of State didn't really move. Does the Secretary of State now recognise that the increase in the aid the churches must give is the result of the policy of this government that this Secretary of State is responsible for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. I recognize, of course, that there is poverty in our country. I have also exchanged this many times in debates with your Chamber. I think it is very good that the government and foundations, volunteers, churches in the Netherlands are fighting poverty together. This cabinet is also very busy, and it wants to support Church in Action, Debt Help buddy, Salvation Army, Food Banks, Humanitas and many other foundations like Cordaid and Refugee Work, also financially, to help fight poverty. I can now say very easily that, fortunately, poverty in the Netherlands is falling, now that the crisis is over, but that is too simple, because there is poverty in the Netherlands and we must continue to fight that poverty. Even now that the figures are carefully adjusted downwards, I think we should continue to do so. Then it is very good that not only the churches, but also other foundations in the Netherlands help. I also think it is very good that, in addition to the government, our fellow leaders from the municipalities also keep the interaction with all these foundations and churches in law government. I like to see that a lot of aldermen maintain very short lines with those foundations. Let me just outline the government policy. At first instance, we used 100 million in structural funds to combat poverty. We are doing this once again, but now very specifically to combat child poverty. In addition, we have taken purchasing power measures, so that the smallest wallets can be provided with more structural space. It is also important to say once again that we are taking a number of measures that matter in the area of debt relief. I am referring to the moratorium and the simplification of the unhindered foot. In short, the cabinet is doing everything it can to combat poverty, fortunately in close consultation with many volunteers in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u4	There are a lot of answers, but they're a lot of answers to questions I haven't asked. So that's not why I came. My question was whether the government acknowledges the criticism of the churches that it was the government's policy that led to an increase, a very large increase, in the number of questions asked by churches because of need. Does she recognize that? She can say yes and she can say no. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u5	We see, on the basis of figures from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, that from 2012 onwards poverty was very much at stake, when this cabinet took office. We now also see, on the basis of figures from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, that there is a cautious turnaround. This cabinet is therefore indeed doing, moreover in close consultation with Parliament, to deal with and combat poverty. We now also see fortunately that this has good effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u6	Who am I supposed to believe, the churches or the Secretary of State? I know you have to be for faith in the churches. However, this is the crucial question. The churches say, "Klijnsma, you throw it over the fence." They say they can't keep it up and the Secretary of State says it's gonna be okay. In this case, I suppose I should believe the churches and not this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr President, I suppose I can still respond to this. As I said, it is a good practice in our country that not only helps the churches, but also other foundations. I also read the report of the churches, of course. I'm just gonna go on, along with the churches, fighting poverty. I think that's a great thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u9	The Secretary of State rightly praises Church and Action and others who are committed to this. I think, however, that the answer to Mr Ulenbelt's questions is too easy. Church in Action gives very targeted criticism of the government. The government would be an anonymous mailbox and would chase away people in poverty with all sorts of rules. The Secretary of State says in her response that the policy is sound. If she seriously believes that such organisations and churches deserve that fame for their efforts, they also deserve to be taken seriously in their criticism of the cabinet. Has the Secretary of State discussed this criticism with the Church in Action? What is it going to do with the criticism, instead of just saying that the policy is good?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u10	I got the report from Church in Action on Friday. I regularly speak to the church umbrella. By the way, not only those of the churches, but also those of all the other foundations. I take the criticism very seriously, of course. The fact is that, as governments, I did not mention the municipalities for nothing, the municipalities should be careful that when people knock at municipalities, the doors are not closed. The Chamber knows we've evaluated the Municipal Debt Aid Act. I have said that I am now sending the inspection to the municipalities to ensure that we are sure that the door for people who are in debt is not kept categorically closed, because that is absolutely not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u11	More than EUR 36 million in direct aid and more than 500,000 hours of volunteering, which is what the report points out about the role of churches in combating poverty. I have two questions. Does the Secretary of State recognise that the government can no longer live without the churches when it comes to combating poverty? Does she recognise that not only the municipalities have a role here, but also the government? One big point in the report is that we're just making rules on rules that make people bogged down. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do everything in the last few months she may still be in this cabinet to take away this complexity not only with the measures she has already announced, but even more than that, and to make a real contribution to the fight against poverty, whether together with the churches or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u12	These are some of Mrs Schouten's questions. Over the centuries, it has been good practice for governments and foundations to fight poverty together. It is really very pleasant, and that is not a chat for the often, that so many people in the Netherlands care about each other. All those volunteers, those 500,000 hours, we could never afford to be together. We have to be honest with you. Let me give that plume to churches. Mrs Schouten really has a point when she talks about regulation and how complicated we have built our society. If you are low-literate or unable to participate in the dynamics of everyday life and the complexity of living together, it is essential that the government in particular tries to make regulation as simple as possible. That's what we're doing all the time. Mrs Schouten knows that in any case, I consider the simplification of the unhindered foot to be essential. So if the appeal is made on me to try to simplify the complexity in the after-days of this cabinet, it is not said to deaf ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u13	I understand the heart cry of the churches. The PvdA has also asked the Cabinet to take a fundamental look at the entire poverty and debt policy and to carry out a social cost-benefit analysis. That is precisely because of the bottlenecks that the churches call. It is therefore a justified cry of hearts, also in view of the execution. That's how SP Alderman Vliegenthart, for whom I have a great deal of appreciation, came into the news because he spends poverty money on games. This highlights more bottlenecks in implementation. Really. The members of the SP Group show that they don't like it, but it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u14	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u15	We have a lot of work to do in the country. The cabinet has also set things in motion. It could be a lot better. Things also go wrong in the execution. How is the cabinet going to ensure that the extra 100 million that we have now made structuralally reach the children who need it and that it does not sit in all kinds of meetings and buildings?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u17	The question is, therefore, how do we ensure that the 100 million now structurally available to children in poverty reach those children? I do like to say that very good things happen in the municipality of Amsterdam as well. I would like to underline that here. There are also children being helped. The alderman in Amsterdam is busy with that. However, I will do everything in my power to get the items in kind with the municipalities and the foundations Leergeld, Youth Sports Fund, Youth Culture Fund, Child Support and Yearly Job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the positive words about the role of foundations and churches. The Secretary of State again explains what her policy is, but on the basis of that policy, the churches have now sent this emergency letter, which says: consult with us and see what is possible. What will the Secretary of State do, also in relation to the hand-out that churches have done, to see if we can get a step further? That it's all complex, we know, but I'd like to see the Secretary of State's outstretched hand in practice. For example, by consulting again with the churches and giving a feedback to the Chamber, to see what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'd like a brief response, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u20	The previous cabinet has never provided subsidies for such initiatives. This cabinet will. I am very regularly in consultation with all these foundations and the churches. At my next meeting, I will certainly also put on the agenda what churches have now entrusted to the paper and put me, and everyone, on the agenda, to see if we can improve a number of things in these last few months. So I'm happy to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u21	Then I'll throw in my second interruption, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u23	Will the Chamber get an explicit feedback? Will we receive a letter containing a report on what has happened and possibly also an action agenda showing that the cabinet sees opportunities to really do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u24	I intend to give your Chamber a proper account of how I want to deal with the 100 million structuralally for the fight against child poverty. I will also take this point into account in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u25	Do you have a deadline in mind for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u26	I intend to put that before your Chamber for the budgetary treatment of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-5.u27	I thank the Secretary of State for her answers. This brings us to the end of Question Time.
