ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Belgian ambassador, Chris Hoornaert, and Deputy Prime Minister Lodewijk Asscher. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. Now that the dust in Brussels is slowly coming down and life is getting back on its feet, what happened last Tuesday is getting to us in full depth. The day began as all other days. People went to work; children went to school; the airport was full of people travelling, private or business, or just returning. But shortly after eight it became clear that the day would run differently; that it would become a black day. Bombs exploded at the airport and in metro station Maalbeek, public spaces where thousands of people gather daily and where they should feel safe. More than 30 people were killed. People like you and I are going somewhere, maybe in a hurry, a headphones on, a cup of coffee in the hand, which would never reach their destination. They were all someone's child, someone's parent, someone's lover or someone's friend. Their death beats deep holes. The attacks also injured more than 200 people, some of whom are still in a critical state in the hospital. But it's not just those people who got hurt. The whole of Belgian society was touched, and the emotions "disease," sadness, anger, "badness" reach far and wide beyond the borders of our own country. In the Netherlands and in the rest of Europe we feel sorry for Belgium. Because we're historically connected. Because they're our dear neighbors. Because Brussels is the heart of Europe, where we stand for the same values: openness, security and freedom; freedom of faith, but also of non-belief. It is precisely these core values that were attacked on Tuesday. We will always condemn that and never accept it. In democracies like ours, we use words to express and defend our positions. This House is the ultimate expression of this. We are one when it comes to defending that basic principle, which we have been building on for so long and which has proven time and time again to overcome all forms of threat, violence or terror. We have to keep that trust. Despite these horrible attacks in Brussels, but also in Copenhagen and Paris, in Ankara and in Istanbul, where hundreds of innocent citizens have lost their lives, we must not be afraid. We must not let our society drift apart. We must stick to our free and open society all the more combatantly. But now we're quiet. In Belgium there is mourning, and here too the flags hang half pole. Together with the President of the First Chamber, on behalf of the States-General, I wished the Belgian Parliament much strength to maintain unity right now. On behalf of all of us, I wish the victims and the next of kin much strength in this difficult, sad time. Our thoughts and hearts are with them. I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	I'm suspending the meeting so that you can express your condolences to the ambassador at the Members' Restaurant.
