ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u2	Madam President. I imagine I'll divide the answer as follows. I'll start with a brief general introduction. Then I come to the big subject of 'democracy'. On this occasion, I would like to divide this into a number of subjects, because many of them include Deliberative democracy, the mayor and his or her appointment, the state committee, experiments and Code Orange, the redistribution within the Municipal Fund, the administrative reclassification and the referendum. We will be discussing this last subject in general consultation on 14 December, so I would like to refer briefly to that. Then I will say something about discrimination, the digital government and the House for whistleblowers. I will then look into the remaining questions to which I would like to respond orally. Finally, I would like to comment on the amendments that have been tabled. In principle, I answered all the questions put in writing this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u4	And compliments to the employees who have all worked very hard for that. For my general introduction, I wanted to be inspired by Mr Amhaouch, who asked: what is the Minister proud of? This is probably the last budget discussion of this cabinet, so it is a good time to look back on that. I will mention five subjects, which together constitute my general introduction in random order. First of all, I am pleased that we have been able to reduce top incomes in the public and semi-public sectors. It was the first law I was able to introduce: the Law standards top incomes. The law has been introduced and implemented. It's been monitored. Some advice has been given to those who needed it. There's been an evaluation. Detailed rules have been laid down. Next, the maximum income ceiling in the public sector was reduced by law from 130% of a ministerial salary to 100%, i.e. from €230,000 to €180,000. That's a big step. Now there is a bill to extend the scope to other than drivers. I believe that this is a really important step for confidence in the public sector and in the proper use of public funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u5	I'd like to pay tribute to that. It is always nice if a proposal from the SP also comes into the coalition agreement, but the building is not quite finished. Today we had the news of a radio deejay that gets €565,000. I understand that the new supplementary proposal from the Minister must also make this kind of thing impossible. Is the Minister prepared to do his utmost to make that right before the elections so that he can leave the house nicely?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u6	Success has many fathers, in this case also the SP. That's good. The current law is limited to directors in the public and semi-public sectors. Indeed, there is the intention to change the law in such a way that other officials, in principle, include all officials. Disk jockeys would also be included. The bill has been in consultation. So you've been able to take note of it. It has to go to the Council of State now. I am not quite in control of the rate at which it will come back and eventually be here in the Chamber. It won't be me. I'm very motivated to do that. A second major step is that we have evaluated the Intelligence and Security Services Act, which is 20 years old, and that we have made a new law, which will soon be dealt with. I understand that the Chamber has decided to treat the law as a matter of priority. The law will be for the upcoming "what will it be?" 20 years again, the balance between security, which is crucial, and fundamental rights, such as guaranteeing privacy. I think that's something to look at with some pride. I would add that with the CTG, the AIVD has also taken the lead at European level in combating terrorism, the centre where all information is shared between 30 security services. CTG is the Counter Terrorism Group. I think it's an important cluster. The third is perhaps the biggest change in domestic governance since... Maybe not since time immemorial, but since World War II. Those are the major decentralisations. I remember when pessimists said four years ago: none of this is going to work, because the municipalities are not going to work together; the budgets are not being missed and the Empire will never be prepared to leave the responsibility to the local government. We are now four years ahead and... I am not saying that everything is going well, because we knew that we would still need years of fine-tuning, but in principle this great reform has been carried out under the direction of the Home Office. That is a major change in domestic governance. The fourth is "I'll get back to you in a moment in answering the questions to the digital government. We had set ourselves the goal of making 100% of the interactions between citizens and government digitally possible in 2017. We are now at 88% and we are basically on course. That's a big change I'm proud of. Finally, I am proud of something which Mr Bishop nicely summarized with the term 'oil man'. I hadn't heard it before in that context, but he said that the Department of Home Affairs is, in a sense, the government's oil man. If there's a job to be done, I mentioned just that decentralisation has a role to play and the department takes the coordinating role. You don't always see that, but it has to be done. Apparently it went so well with the decentralisations that when a new issue arose, the reception of a large stream of asylum seekers, the cabinet said: let BZK chair the director tables, where Mr Dijkhoff is the portfolio holder for asylum matters. The chairman is BZK and we try to make sure that things are going well with the municipalities and the provinces at the table. That's where the term came from: shoulder-to-shoulder with the different government strokes solving things. I think that also shows that there is a change in thinking about BZK. BZK and the Empire were seen as some kind of opponent by local government for a while, while people now feel that we are standing next to each other, doing it together and helping each other. This is more of a cultural change than a law or a measure, but it is a very important one. I'm only doing it on that fifth finger of the oil man's roll: after years of zero line, there has been a 5% increase in wages in the collective sector. That had to be negotiated and covered, and that's what BZK did. Recently, of course, there has also been a response to the increase in the contribution of the General Civil Pension Fund. Maybe finally, when the King of the Belgians visited the state over the last two days, I found in conversations with colleagues that the open government should count on surprise. We are a little used to it as Dutch people, but when I told my colleagues that we put all our declarations on the Internet every month, they said they couldn't imagine it at all. I said that we are also making our agendas public, and that was also an unprecedented thought for our neighbours. The Netherlands is therefore quite far away. Next week, I will be present at a meeting opened by President Hollande. At that meeting, ministers from 16 countries working with the open government will be present. We should be proud of what we are achieving step by step. Standards of top incomes, the Intelligence and Security Services Act, the decentralisations, the digital government and the serving role of BZK in the background as a mother department are the five things the department can be proud of in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u7	Of course, we'll give the Minister his five successes. There is, of course, always a difference of opinion about the digital government, but we will be discussing this later. I would like to come back to the Wiv, the Intelligence and Security Services Act, because it will not come back. The Minister is taking an advance on this, but is he also confident that he will lead the Wiv through the Chamber before the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u8	A motion has been passed by the House of Representatives to deal with that law as a matter of priority. For my part, I am doing everything I can to ensure that all leave has been withdrawn to make sure that it is not up to the department if there is any delay, for example when there is a need for written input. I hope that, with the support of the Chamber, I will be able to deal with the bill quickly in Parliament and then it will be accepted. Then it is up to the First Chamber, but I will endeavour to do so before the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u9	So you think there is sufficient support in the House of Representatives to get through the law before the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u10	The politicians mean that I am not getting into too much of this, but I have spoken to some of the spokesmen and I look forward to the debate with some confidence. Let me address the CDA, for example: I know that the CDA also attaches great importance to rapid treatment. Mr Buma has urged me to do so on an earlier occasion. I've experienced that as a support to do this quickly. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u11	There is also a question from Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u12	I'm still setting up that list. I'd like to hand over to the Minister the Top Income Standards Act. The Wiv is coming. But the three decentralisations, apart from what you think, were, in my opinion, the work of the Secretary of State of VWS and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. So I think that's a questionable one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u13	That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u14	Finally, the Minister mentions open government, because a few agendas are made public. Is he serious? If you look at how the Netherlands is doing in relation to other countries, you can see that we are still doing very badly. So when I look at this list, I think that the Minister can be optimistic, but he can't really think that these are his big success numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u15	It's wrong. I have been a coordinating minister for the major decentralisations from the outset. At all meetings, three portfolio holders were at the table, namely from VWS, from Justice and Social Affairs, who transferred tasks in the care domain and the social domain to municipalities. They have, of course, defended those laws in the Chamber in their area. I can therefore imagine the perspectivistic distortion from the point of view of Mrs Voortman. Those three wallet holders, plus, of course, the local directors, sat at the management table that I chaired and was prepared by my staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u16	Indeed, I have not seen the Minister for the Interior in all the debates we have had in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u17	That's not right either. We have also had debates in plenary on decentralisation. Mrs Voortman may not have been there all the time, but we have periodically...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u18	No plenary debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u19	We have held general consultations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u20	I suggest we don't get mixed up. Mrs. Voortman was still asking her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u21	There have indeed been a number of general consultations. When MPs asked questions there, they often referred to the State Secretary of VWS and Social Affairs. Well, at least I find it questionable. As far as open government is concerned, is the big step in making a few agendas public? When it comes to open data, so much more could have happened. Mrs Oosenbrug has just made an extensive speech on this subject. Let me then ask if the Minister will at least indicate what he intends to do in the coming months. If this is it, four years old, I don't think it's much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u22	I'll leave that to Mrs. Voortman. For example, with the municipalities, which I consider to be a more important target group than the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, there is no misunderstanding that BZK is the department that directs decentralisation, as well as all kinds of other major issues. I call it monitoring, the legality of expenditure and the decommitment of the fund. Even if there are questions about how much has been spent and how much has not been spent, the directing role lies with BZK. There's nothing else I can do. On what I'm going to do over the next few months, perhaps I'll come back even more comprehensively. So much for a few points that I just mentioned on the hand. Of course there are many more subjects, but the question was a few to mention. Much has happened in the past period. I also think that this has greatly strengthened the position of the BZK mother department. That brings me to the first major issue, democracy. I've already indicated a number of sub-topics. But let me also mention a few general terms, also because a number of Members have said a few things about it in the first term. Our democratic system enjoys a great deal of confidence, and I believe that Mr Bishop indicated this. That's what polls have shown. There is certainly a lot of political discontent. This is not only seen in Dutch society, but actually worldwide, at least in the Western countries, from the United States to all countries in Europe. But in itself, our democratic system is very capable of translating it into political power if there is discontent. At the time of Pim Fortuyn people also said: that is the bankruptcy of the system. I always thought that was a little crazy. Of course there was a horrible murder, but the LPF came into the Chamber with, what was it, 26 seats, and was also part of the cabinet that followed. So our system is very capable of translating the opinion of the population. Last week I received a book from Professor Sjaak Koenis of the University of Maastricht on the Janus head of democracy. It's too far to go into that now, but I felt inspired by it. He says that the resistance and anger in society are not at the expense of democracy, but rather that they are manifesting themselves through the ways that our democratic system offers. This may be the outcome of elections, but also the use of referendums or other forms of civic participation and participation. That system in itself is therefore a fairly solid, sound and sustainable vehicle. Mr Van Raak cut this in the context of local politics. He also referred to democratic legitimacy as a subject. We now have a lot of decentralised from the Empire to the municipality. I have always defended this here, because the local government is as democratically legitimized as the national government. However, that is only if the local electoral cycle versus political power is working well, and then that of voters who see if they agree with the outcome. In this place, I would like to share with the Chamber that we must keep a close eye on this in the years to come. A number of forces are also working on the depoliticisation of local politics. Mr Van Raak may have made a bit of a joke about that, but he gave some examples. Dualism was the transition from the time when aldermen were members of the city council to the time when they were no longer in it. This naturally led to the emergence of career aldermen who do well in a small municipality and then go to a larger municipality. Not everyone would have foreseen that at that time. In itself, that's fine. It has now become a profession, and a nice profession as well. This could mean that the aldermanship is seen more as a management role than when someone from a local political party becomes alderman in his or her group as a city council member. The decentralisations have, fortunately, been received locally from the Empire without too much political strife. Whether there is an alderman of the VVD, the SP, the CDA or GroenLinks; they have all tried to take over and carry out the new tasks without any objection to the citizen. They have tried to put the professional, such as the district nurse or others in a team, in a position to cut knots. I'm glad. However, this could lead to a more depoliticising effect in the longer term. After all, local voters have to decide whether they think they're doing well. If not, they can vote for another. In this way I come to talk in detail about civic participation and deliberative democracy. This could also mean that local directors become more process managers who organise participation than people who themselves put forward and want to implement a programme from a political or ideological background. These three processes together could lead to a depoliticisation of local government. That would, of course, undermine democratic legitimacy in the long term. The aim is to allow people to show that they agree at elections or that they want to change direction. I say this in general terms about democracy and also about local democracy. With your permission, I will continue on to a few topics of local democracy. The chairman looks at me hard, because it's a long day and it's late. So I'm gonna try to make it quick. Mrs Voortman asked about deliberative democracy. I got very inspired by David Van Reybrouck's book against elections three years ago. That was before he appeared on Dutch television as a well-known Belgian. I once went out to dinner with him and got me very inspired by him. It's very appealing to me. Mrs Voortman asked about the aspect of drawing lots. I've been to a lot of these burgers. You can do lots. You'll include 4,000 people and you'll invite them, but the problem is that 400 will appear. That's not a random group. I have also seen this with people from the G1000 organizations: whatever you do about it, the group that does this now does not remain on average random and on average higher educated. We have to face that. I believe that we should take on board the fact that a lot of progressive movements or other social movements have been started by a vanguard of people who had higher education. I do think that, in this type of civic participation, you should demand that the higher-educated group not only stands up for its own interests, but in practice that is not so bad every time. Those people understand that you're not sitting there for the artificial grass hockey fields for your own family, but for the good of the public. I'm kind of optimistic about that. Mrs Voortman cut the non-committality of the result. I recognize that. This is often the first step in mapping what you would like with the citizens of the municipality of Amersfoort, Groningen or Amsterdam. That still wants to happen, and a list will come out. It'll be out of your hands a lot. The challenge is to remain the owner, not only of the list, but also of picking up and implementing it as much as possible with the support of the municipality. That will have to take shape in the coming years, but I am very excited about that. I'll get back to you in a moment under the Experiment Law. Or I'd better do that first. Let me get right on to that subject. Not so long ago, an initiative was launched by local administrators and others who called themselves Code Orange and asked for more civic participation. I embraced that. I have been working for a few years on the vaccination of local democracy, I have just mentioned forms of deliberative democracy, civic participation, but I have also stumbled upon local leaders who say: we have been elected, we are going about it. Then the paradox is that it is not very credible when you say from the government, from above: you have to let more things come from below. Well, that's from the wrong side, from upstairs. It was just a matter of waiting to see if they wanted to pick that up on the spot. I'm very glad that's happening right now. I invited the initiators, and we sat together two weeks ago. Mrs Voortman asked: what are we going to do with it now; is the cabinet also willing to amend the law? If that were necessary, we would be prepared to do so. We have an inside dike of the legal framework and an outside dike of the constitutional framework. I discussed with the initiators that the floodplains between the inner dike and the outer dike are quite small. Article 125 of the Constitution states: "The city council is at the head of the municipality. Article 129 states that the city council is directly elected. That means, for the next eight years, that no kind mother will help, and I would not wish that the city council chosen by the residents would be at the head of the municipality. The things that the initiators have planned, such as civil seats in the council room and involving citizens in the decision-making process, can all be organised within the constitutional framework and even within the legal framework. There's no record of how many seats there are in the council room. Whether you place five seats there for citizens, whether you locks them or invite them, how you organize the flow of documents, or as a municipal authority, you want those citizens to speak with you and debate with you, if necessary; that is all a matter of the rules of procedure of the city council. My basic attitude is indeed: let us not be too afraid, let us enter into that conversation. If there's anything we can do from the Empire, I'm available. When city councils want to experiment with that, they have my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u23	I think the Experiment Law municipalities are going a little further. There is a proposal for an external chairman of a council committee, but that is contrary to the Municipal Law. In fact, two or three years ago, when we discussed the amendment of the Municipal Law here, the Chamber amended it from the legislative proposal. In my view, the Minister may wish to exclude articles of the Community law from application by means of an experimental law. Or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mrs. Fokke is absolutely right. I think the first is true of a large part of what comes out of these Code Orange initiatives. My basic attitude is: look at how much is already possible within the framework of the Constitution and the law. Because municipalities said that all kinds of things they wanted are not allowed by the law, I did indeed say that it was a long journey...................................................................................................................................................................................................... That turned out to be a very fruitful process. Municipalities often think that something is not allowed by the law. However, if you look closely again, it's actually not that bad. In the end, only two proposals remained on the screen. I have said that we will then make these two proposals an experiment, but that we will also agree in the law to do so that we will soon be doing a next round which will again require legislation to consider whether new laws will apply. Again, I also find the process of viewing what is really bothering you and what law you would temporarily want to put out of business interesting and useful, even if the outcome is now limited. That outcome is indeed still with the Council of State, so it still ends up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u25	This is very interesting. If I understand correctly, the Experiment Law can ensure that matters we have regulated in the Municipal Law are temporarily excluded for certain municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u27	If municipalities want to have a citizens' committee that can take over certain powers of the city council, can it or can it not? And if council members want to temporarily give their seat on certain subjects to a highly qualified citizen, can they or can they not? That kind of example, what about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u28	Let's take the last example. My suggestion to the municipalities is in advance that no one prevents a city council member from suggesting at the municipal assembly that there should be a seat for a citizen and that he should meet with himself, declare or say that he is going to listen very carefully to what that citizen says and that much must be done before he casts his vote differently from that citizen. Then you stay within the framework of the Constitution, namely that the city council is at the head of the municipality and that the members are directly elected, but you de facto do a lot. If you really want to give up your seat, you will, of course, run counter to Article 129 of the Constitution. That's why I'm looking to solve it as practically as possible, as much as I can. If something remains on the sieve, the legislator can always look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u29	I think that is a sound approach, because of course you do not want to amend the Constitution immediately on this point. I understand. The Minister now says he wants to see what ideas exist and what is now possible. Should anything not be possible, space can be created within the Experimentenwet to make that possible, as long as we insist that the board is at the head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u30	Yeah, then I'm willing to make proposals to the Chamber on my own. That is, of course, quite a piece of legislation, so it will not be possible until March. That is the intention, however. My appeal to the local government is to see all these forms of complementary civic participation "do-democracy" we have mentioned earlier in the note not too much as a threat, but basically as a complement to politics. Be glad that a few hundred citizens from the municipality have the time and interest to be involved in the decision-making process. I see that's getting picked up wide. I would encourage that. While we are at local democracy, that brings me to the point of the mayor and the mayor's appointment. A number of Members have asked for this. The constitutional change regarding the method of appointment, the crown appointment, enshrined in the Constitution, was adopted at first reading by the Second and First Chambers. It is an initiative proposal of D66 and the PvdA. They have made sense, I think, of the previous attempt that was stranded in the First Chamber, so as not to prejudice the way in which they were appointed. They have said for a sec that what is ahead is whether the method of appointment should be established in the Constitution or whether the ordinary legislator can determine it by law. The latter is what is intended. I think that's wise. I was just talking about the transition in local government from monism to dualism. That was possible without a constitutional change, because that whole aspect of local government, whether or not the aldermen are part of the city council, is not enshrined in the Constitution. The method of appointing aldermen is not laid down in the Constitution. Then why would the mayor's appointment be fixed there? That is really from the time the Crown said: local democracy is so far, but we do appoint those who chair the city council and the council of aldermen. My plea would therefore be to let that go at second reading. I would like to comment on the suggestion that what is happening now is not democratic. I've had this period about half the sitting mayors visiting the appointment. There is one, Mr Bulhouwer. Welcome, good evening. They were elected by a trust committee from the city council. Of course, there are other ways in which you could organise that procedure, but that is really a confidential, democratic choice that the Crown always follows. Then there will indeed be a crown appointment, but in my experience the mayors to be appointed always find it very special that the King appoints them instead of being appointed locally by hammerstroke. There is therefore much to be said for the current method of appointment. In any case, it is up to the legislator to decide whether to stick to the current method of appointment, which leads to very good mayors, or whether to choose another procedure. Before, there was some debate about the state committee in the event of interruption. I have just asked for the letter from the two Presidents of the Chamber. When the two Presidents of the Chamber are underneath, you don't talk anymore! The letter is therefore from Mrs Broekers-Knol and Mrs Arib, who wrote to me: Both Chambers have considered that the Dutch citizen wants more involvement, that the European decision-making process of parliaments has changed, that many tasks have been decentralised, that electoral volatility has increased considerably and that digitisation and social media have undoubtedly had an impact. It also states: "In the light of these considerations, the Chambers have reached the conclusion that reflection on the election, tasks, position and functioning of the parliamentary system and democracy is desirable. In this letter, the two Chambers therefore ask the Government to set up a State Commission to answer the question of whether the parliamentary system is sufficiently future-proof in the light of these considerations and, if necessary, to make proposals for adjustments." There's not a word of French in there. I'm doing that. I am trying to reach the appointment of a state committee well before March, in January, where the mandate is, in principle, that which I receive from the letter of the Presidents of the Chamber. If you call me to debate, I am, of course, prepared to come here at any time of the day or the night. It seems to me that the letter from the Presidents of the Chamber is clear. That's why I'm quoting it. I have to do what I have been asked to do and set up the committee. He might be able to talk to himself, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u31	We prefer to debate during the day. Mr Amhaouch has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u32	There are few ministers who always do as they are told.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u33	Two rooms at once!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u34	How does the Minister see it? Indeed, the letter is clear. There was a majority who described what the state committee should do. But doesn't the cabinet itself need to debate with the Chamber before setting up that state committee? Can you help us with the next steps in the process? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u35	I believe that the proposals that could be put forward by a state committee will soon bring about constitutional changes. This means that at first reading there must be two Chambers for it and at second reading, after the dissolution of the next House of Representatives, which is elected in March, there must be two thirds for it. You're so ten years ahead of practice. The history of constitutional changes in Europe shows that these kinds of pathways will take about ten years. So it is not so useful, perhaps rather counterproductive, if I am going to express my own view too strongly. I agree with the recital in that motion. Two years ago, at the request of the Chambers, I published an overview of the development of bicameral systems, two-chamber systems, in Europe. It shows that in the last half century there have been changes in many countries around us and that there are not many countries with two chambers that both have a right of veto. That was an analysis carried out at the request of the Chambers. This mission of the State Commission is broader. It calls for the whole system to be reviewed, including the role of the Council of State and other democratic instruments. I think it's best to get that chicken to breed first and then get some work done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u36	One last question and I'm gonna stop this. The Minister clearly states that this will lead to a constitutional change and that this will take about ten years. Does not he himself, because that route will have to be done so carefully, have the need to prefer to speak with the cabinet to debate with the Chamber before he instructs the State Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u37	It would be unwise, where both Chambers have found themselves in this task, to be creatively crafting there again, because then a very big discussion immediately flares up, which I would then have to have in two chambers at once. I believe that this task is broad and therefore leaves room for a state committee to do the job. My concern, which I also understand, is that if I am going to give too specific a direction of resolution, people are going to object again before that committee is out of the business. Eventually, it is also important that both Chambers of the States-General feel that there will be an authorityful advice, which they will not only be able to deal with in the short term but also in the long term. That is why I deal with this with some caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u38	The reality is, of course, that the VVD was always a great supporter of the Upper Chamber, until a government under the leadership of the VVD had no majority in the Upper Chamber. A lot of VVDs then suddenly objected to the Upper House. The fact that VVDs see the light is not necessarily a reason for a state committee. The Minister is right to say that we will soon have to amend the Constitution and that all the political parties here in the Chamber have expressed opinions on all the points that the committee will be examining. So we will soon have a situation where we have a committee that will deliver an opinion to political parties that have a strong opinion on all these issues. If there is to be a state committee, would it not be useful, as a start, to have a good debate in the House of Representatives in order to give it direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u39	First of all, I agree with Mr Van Raak that this discussion has come out badly. The impression was that this cabinet, this coalition, had a problem with the majority in the First Chamber and for that reason said: let's change something. That would be unwise, because it's a constitutional change, so that's no good at all. It is precisely this stage, in which the cabinet is not looking for its own solution, that seems to me to be a good window in history to say: that is not the point; we can look at it with some distance and see that politics has become fragmented, so that a majority in the House of Representatives is not always automatically a majority in the First Chamber and that there is great volatility. A political party with 25 seats one minute may be at 10 seats or 5. The combination of these two makes it a new phenomenon. I am trying to get Mr Van Raak along and ask him not to be cynical about the biased views now, because then nothing could ever change. In Europe, in all Scandinavian countries, in Northern Europe and Central Europe, we have seen changes in recent decades. That's why that historical analysis was interesting. In doing so, the chambers were indeed asked to be prepared to face changes in their own roles. My plea is to do it one step at a time. We should not now decide by show of hands what should happen. We need to set up a proper committee and put it to work. With all due respect, we have to face the fact that there is quite a chance that many of the people present here will not be present at all when the final moment will take place in six or eight years to see if there is a two-thirds majority in favour of this. For the time being, let's give it to the State Commission. I don't want to say "the gods."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u40	At the Minister's Ministry there is a very large pile of reports from state committees. When I was in the Senate more than ten years ago, I was part of the National Convention myself. That was very satisfying, after we kicked out all those managers and consultants first. I'd like to catch up with the Minister again on how not to do it. A beautiful report was published at the time, but nothing happened to it. Why isn't that gonna happen? Because there's no direction. Would it not be a good idea to hold a debate in the House of Representatives in order to give a committee a direction? Otherwise we'll get another wonderful story from all very learned ladies and gentlemen, which ultimately doesn't happen because it doesn't match the reality here in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u41	I was also a member of that National Convention, then as a simple biologist from Bussum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u42	Oh, yeah, that's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u43	I remember that. Indeed, that convention ultimately led to a proposal for a general provision in the Constitution. That is before us, so that has not really changed society. I agree. But I insist we don't have to be cynical. There have been constitutional changes in the Netherlands in the past. This also applies to other countries in Europe. There were also major changes. Take, for example, the 1917 Constitutional Amendment. That was a really big constitutional change. So it's possible. I think it will be more likely if you take your time and do not say in advance: we have talked about this before and we do not do so anyway. My plea really is to let it run its course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u45	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u46	Sorry, my bad. I'm not running away from a debate. If Mr Van Raak wants to debate it, I am, of course, available for that. But my plea would be to let that state committee do its job for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u47	It is, I think, a very good idea to structure this process very carefully. If such a state commission is to be deployed, we must leave it the room to do its job. That is what the Minister sums up with the metaphor: a brooding chicken should not be disturbed. That's a beautiful metaphor, but that brooding chicken must have eggs under him. I think that is what Mr Van Raak means and what I share with him. You have to make sure that Parliament is involved in the whole process of elaboration and discussion. That alone is necessary if that egg is to be hatched, and that is necessary for the support of Parliament. I would imagine that the Minister would say: I will look again at the way in which Parliament should be involved from our point of view. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yeah, I'm sure I'm willing to. Both chambers have also asked me to establish a monitoring group composed of both chambers, while ensuring the independence of the state committee. That seems to me to be the right wording. I think that this guidance group should be at some distance, because if it constantly looks over its shoulders, there can be no trial in the state committee. A form for this will have to be found. I think that there should first be a state committee, after which the Chambers finally establish a group of escorts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u49	That's not exactly what I'm talking about. I am referring precisely to the fact that the conversation with the Chambers is being held during the process and that it also provides for the award of contracts. I think that is important in order to reach a somewhat broader judgment and to prevent another report from being placed on that impressive pile. You can get a PhD on that, but you'd like something more. I suspect the Minister will sympathize with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u50	Sure, but it's also an appraisal. My concern is what would happen if more direction were given to it now. Suppose the House of Representatives says that it is thinking of a particular direction of solution, then it may be that the House of Lords says: that is not quite what we had in mind. Then the breeding has already stopped before there is an egg at all. My assessment is as follows: do not be cynical about it; let us take the alert in the letter of both Presidents of the Chamber seriously. There really is something going on in the parliamentary system in broad terms. As a result, it is necessary to consider whether this system will allow us to manage the country for the next 50 years or whether it will require adjustment. Let us await the outcome of that. There will be a parliamentary guidance group at a distance. Let's do it in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u51	Still, it's strange. In view of the history of this State Commission and the letter from both Presidents, this is a sham politics. We are simply running away from a political debate on the organisation of our state system. Mr Van Raak is quite right to say that many proposals have been made by many parties, with ideas on how to increase the democratic quality of the Dutch system. Then it is perfectly logical that you should, if you want to give an explanation to that state committee, first discuss it here with each other? Not so much to make a decision in the sense of 'half think so and the other half think so', but to have a political discussion with each other that can give an explanation to the state committee. With this, we can make that committee do its job faster and not have to let her study for years again, after which there will be a report that stays in the drawer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u52	There has never been a constitutional change from a debate in the Chamber. There was always a state committee that did the preliminary work for that. Whether or not the Klein Group, resulting from 50PLUS, is there when that state committee delivers its work and the Chamber takes a decision on it at first reading, we shall see. I think it would be wise for the State Commission to do what it always does in the case of major changes to the system, namely the preliminary work and the advisory work, after which a legislative amendment, perhaps even a constitutional change, could possibly be initiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u53	I can reassure the Minister. In the next period I will certainly not participate as Group Klein, but as a Free Party. All the state committees of the past, for example, in the revision of the Constitution in 1982..... had a mandate, a starting point. They had a number of ideas that they could use to get going and point in the direction. That's the only question we have to answer with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u54	The direction is set out in the letter from both Presidents of the Chamber. I think it provides a good basis, sufficiently specific to be able to join the work but also open enough to allow a serious discussion in the state committee. Mr Bosma spoke about the referendum. I will tell him that on 14 December there will be an AO on this subject. I am already looking forward to the discussion with Mr Bosma and others on this subject. That gives me the opportunity to leave it at that. I mentioned the point of redistribution in the subcluster, in the Municipal Fund, which was asked why it was not carried out entirely according to the opinion issued. I was reminded by Mrs De Caluwé that, in summing up the question in the written answer, the impression might have been created that I thought that the VVD was trying to carry out that last third part of that review now too. There is no misunderstanding about that, however. Mrs De Caluwe has already argued that she did not advocate it. That is also the line of the cabinet. I will come back to that in the context of the amendment in a formal sense. There is an advice to further implement that cluster change, but there are some assumptions in that, which according to the research results still contain uncertainties. I also mentioned them in the written reply. For example, as of 2015, the investment budget for urban renewal has been discontinued. It is assumed that this will also eliminate expenditure, but the future still has to tell whether that is the case at all. This also applies to the anticipation of the Wro update obligation for land use plans and management regulations. To be brief, I would like to prevent us from redistributing between municipalities, then finding that it has gone through and then having to reverse it. I would like to do the following, and that is also what Mrs Fokke asked for: to state here that when the Community fund is re-examined, this is explicitly the subject of discussion. This is absolutely the intention and then resolve it in this way. I think that is in line with the question put by Mrs De Caluwé and Mrs Fokke on this point. I have a wooden briefcase in my room with "Brandletter" on it. That's what the Aldermen of Finance handed over to me last year. They said, for God's sake, beware of late changes in our budget and of excessive fluctuations in changes in our budget. Of course, they always prefer more than less money, but at least not that constant uncertainty. That, too, is a reason for me to temper with this. Ms Koşer Kaya still cut the provincial reclassification. For me, of course, that is a subject on which I have little pleasure in looking back. I have devoted an incredible amount of energy to this. Why didn't the reclassification go through? I see the moment before me that we were in the Tower in a meeting with the group chairman of D66 and Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks, that they withdrew from their deliberations and that they came back with the message: we are not going to support everything. I found that there was not such a majority in the Lower House that you could reasonably expect the Upper House to support it. That's when the trajectory stopped there. This does not mean that nothing has happened in the area of administrative issues and reclassification issues. When the cabinet was in office, there were 415 municipalities. Now it's 388. The bottom-up process leads to a steady clustering of municipal authorities. We've abolished the Wgr-plus. That was a plan from the coalition agreement. That was also an important classification issue. I can mention a number of points...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u55	Perhaps Mrs. Koşer Kaya can first...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u56	If I finish now, I'll be done at this point sooner. I might mention the most important thing: not a change in the system, but the introduction of the 'directory tables' phenomenon. We initially did that in the case of the decentralisations. It turned out to be a good thing. That is why we are doing so now on the question of asylum seekers. In fact, this means that we have a new form of governance: regularly chaired by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with representatives of local authorities and departments concerned to identify issues in order to work together as partners in local government and to solve major issues. This is not a system change or classification issue, but I think it is an important cultural change in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u57	The minister says it's not my fault, I have no responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u58	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u59	Then that's what I want to hear. I heard the Minister make all kinds of comments about it in section K before I asked my question and it came down to that. The Minister has been instructed to make the reclassification a success. That didn't work. Just acknowledge that and do not then point to parties who may not agree with you on all points or whatever. No, you're responsible for that. Take that responsibility!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u60	I do. I have spoken harshly in my attempts to obtain support in the provinces concerned but also in the Chambers of the States General. It was not the Labour Party's fault and it was not the VVD's fault. I have to say that the party which had this reclassification in its own election programme, D66, took the lead in saying: let us be brief, we are not going to support it. Yeah, then it stops. I take full responsibility for that. I tried my stinking best to do that. But a provincial reclassification does go through a law. If there's no basis for that, then it ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u61	This really makes me sigh. The minister's just pushing it off his plate. However, he had a majority in this Chamber. My party has shown over and over again over and over again that it has taken responsibility. This was not only about all kinds of reorganisations, but also about the AIVD, which was heavily cut back. And now the Minister comes to say: oh, oh, it was a difficult conversation and therefore the reclassifications failed. No, as coalition parties, the VVD and the PvdA, together with the minister, should have sent that bill to the Chamber and could debate it. I think this is way too easy. This Minister has not taken up his responsibilities and I think he should recognize this here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u62	I am surprised at this, because the chairman of the D66 group, Mr Pechtold, at the time advised by Mr Schouw, who is indeed off the board, told me that there was no point in submitting the bill because D66 was not going to support it. In other words: in the House of Representatives there will be a coalition majority for his "U" you can assume; that was also stated in the coalition agreement "U" but then it stranded in beauty in the First Chamber. There's a limit to the amount of self-carriage you can expect from a minister. Then it stops, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u63	You are being challenged, so you may have a moment, Mrs. Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u64	Then the Minister should not have put forward all these legislative proposals, such as the recent bill on the Council of State, which was not passed by the Chamber either. The Minister has his own responsibility. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u65	I don't understand where this is going. I fully recognise that responsibility. This proposal, because D66 was not in favour of this reclassification, did not end up in the Official Journal. I take responsibility for that in the sense that I would have liked to have it there. Well, good, so you know who you should be with for administrative renewal in a subsequent period and who you shouldn't be with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u66	I think we're done with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u67	There he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u69	I believe that I have all discussed the points of democracy and governance described above. Which brings me to the digital government. I would like to be quite brief about this, because I have answered the written questions in detail. However, I would like to point out that there has been a spectacular change in the use of the digital government over the past period, although this may not have been immediately apparent. The number of accounts at MyGovernment was 1.8 million last October. That's 5 million now. In a thick year the number has more than doubled, almost tripled. Or take DigiD, the most important identification for citizens in government and semi-government. That now has 12.5 million active accounts. So basically, the vast majority of citizens have a DigiD account in no time. I could mention many more numbers, but let me highlight one more. The government agreement states that all interactions with the government can be digital in 2017. I have made an inventory of the 550 most used interactions and the numerator is now.... we are not yet in 2017, let alone at the end of that year... at 88% for mid 2016. So great progress has been made, with the support of the Chamber. As Mrs de Caluwe said, we always want it even faster. I agree. If I was CEO of a company, I might just be able to move on a little faster. But I am dealing with the Parliament, which is watching and at a time saying: we want to know exactly how this is happening. That's the force field. I'll try to do it as soon as I can. I have therefore appointed Mr Unicorn as Digi Commissioner to speed up the process and I am grateful for his support on this point. We are trying to do the process as quickly as possible with all the governments, not only with the Empire, for which Mr Blok is responsible, but also with the co-governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u70	The Minister is right to say that the number of connections to existing facilities has increased dramatically. That's what we saw in the GDI monitor. But of course that is about the old functionalities, such as DigiD, which we are now replacing because it is in serious need of replacement. 88% of organisations are connected to the GDI, but the question is whether they also work with it. It's true that that's being pulled hard. My input was about the necessary innovation, the digitisation of the government. This is not just about the conversion of offline documents to online documents, so you can now request digitally what was first only offline. It's also about smarter handling and working with open data and open source, searching for new resources and making sure you connect. That's what my input was about. There's still some work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u71	I agree. I have noted with the major parties, the Tax Administration, DUO and the Social Insurance Bank, that we are in this area about 99%. However, there are also municipalities where you have to send a letter to get a permit. It can't be digital. That's why we have the Digi Commissioner. He does a lot of work and says there: it is not anymore of this time that this cannot be done digitally. Then the citizen can do business with the government 24/7 from behind the agency. I've been counting with my officials or 100% digital. For example, marriage cannot be digital. That's what you do in person. There are still a few activities. For example, consultation evenings do not go digital, but permits and decisions need to be digital as much as possible. We're trying to pull that. What Mrs De Caluwe says is a support for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u72	I don't want to spoil the minister's party. He started his speech today with five points he was proud of. A few we give him, but the digital government hasn't been successful in recent years. I am referring to the prime responsibility of the minister himself and not to other ministries, because the Social Insurance Bank was also a disaster. The Minister can't be proud, can he? The BRP has not yet been completed, the DigiD has not yet been delivered and the iDIN of the private sector is raging past us. The law on generic digital infrastructure has not yet been delivered. Then he can't say with dry eyes that that's a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u73	Still, I do. Of course, I'm dealing with the House of Representatives. I was just referring to that sideways. We regularly have AOs in which we talk about the digital identity, for example. Previously, I received a warning from the Chamber that we should not compete with what private providers can do. At that time I said that we should go to a mixed system where we can. In the end, I also received support from the Chamber for this. That is why we are now a long way off with the digital system. By the way, I would like to contradict the fact that the DigiD would no longer be of this time. We're coming back with an upgrade from the DigiD. I think it can last for years, but indeed, we will soon be working in the law on generic digital infrastructure with a new multi-media identification method. I have just said to Mrs De Caluwe that I agree that it can always be done faster. I'm trying to do the same thing. At the same time, I have to deal with a political force field in the House of Representatives, with complex issues and with the Elias Committee. It has said that the government must continue to step-by-step in major automation projects, which must test these steps and not make too big leaps. I'm rightly called upon if something weren't Elias-proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u74	We're not going to talk about Eliasproof today. I believe that the Minister has received the full support of this Chamber. My colleagues, including Mrs Oosenbrug of his own party and Mrs De Caluwe, have had to control themselves in the various AOs occasionally because the progress was simply not enough. Yesterday we read in De Telegraaf that the VVD believes that the digital government has been a failure. The minister can't say he didn't have room. I'll come back to the core. The minister says the DigiD is used by millions. Can the Minister say that he is safe enough today? It's gonna go on for a while before the eID arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u75	It is safe enough for the use that is taking place now, but the VWS colleague, for example, would like to make electronic files accessible to citizens. Then you don't want to run the risk that you can only access sensitive data with a name and a password. So it just depends on the application. If people use their DigiD code to make an appointment with the city official, it's safe enough. If you can use it to get information about a serious disease, you still want a higher level of security. This will bring us into the DigiD next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u76	I have always been incredibly critical of this minister, but I do not remember feeling so frustrated that I have been about to grieve him; let me stick to neat Hague political terms. When I started here, I did indeed have little faith in the digitalisation of the government, but in the last four years I have noticed that the Chamber itself is quite capable of steering. The minister picked up this glove. I'd like to compliment him on that. In addition, the Chamber pulls the hand brake at some point. That is also what should be done, after the whole ICT debacle around the Elias Commission. I'd like to think of a question, but I'm not gonna do it because I don't think it's necessary. I wanted to interrupt because I was addressed as if I would not be satisfied with the digitisation of the government. It can always be better; let me put it on that. So this was a supportive plea for this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u77	Thank you for that support, which I have always experienced as well. I agree with Mrs Oosenbrug. The government works with public money and has a different role and responsibility than a private party, who may take a risk once and only have to explain it to shareholders. This makes the journey more complex but nevertheless important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u78	I'm not going to have a discussion right now about whether it could and should be faster. Yeah, we can, but we're not there right now, because we have to move forward. My question concerns the key keeper; the customer central. If all this becomes possible, it is very important that the customer is really at the centre and becomes a key keeper. I would like to hear from the Minister what plans he has and whether he is going to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u79	We have several AOs behind us about access to their own files and access to who has had access to files. This subject is also fully covered in the GDI Act. I agree with Mrs Koşer Kaya that it is very important. We are doing it for the citizens and they must also be able to ensure that it is done correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u80	It is important that this is done in advance, because otherwise we will not have the tools, the knowledge and the possibilities to make it really possible. Is the Minister going to bet that the pre-work is already done, so that we can really make sure that the customer becomes key keeper?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u81	The answer is yes. I've got a whole board working on that. Besides, we've appointed a government commissioner. The government doesn't do that fast. The Commissioner has his own club staff who pulls on it. We have had a Commissioner in the past and now we have the Digi Commissioner. These are the two exceptions to the rule that we do as much as possible within the government as we can in principle. So we're pulling it really hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u82	I will come back to the eID, after Mrs Koşer Kaya's question. The minister said DigiD could go a long time. It is now being developed at the level of reliability "essentially" but not at the level of "high." The use of the eID was that there should be a login at the "high" level, especially for the care sector, which is indeed something that one is in need of. It's about speed. My party has asked for a public resource. This has been somewhat delayed after that. When the pilots were launched, the evaluation criteria were not ready. At the time, the Chamber said: go ahead with the pilots, but make sure that the evaluation criteria are prepared in the meantime, because we want to keep the speed in. There would be one system, but they became multiple systems. It has to go back to one system. Does the Minister therefore agree with me that it was not the Chamber that frustrated the progress of the eID journey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u83	I wouldn't use the word "frustrating." Limiting the pace has not been done by the Chamber, but in particular by the VVD Group. I wrote it down for myself for a while. The first spokesperson at this point was Pieter Litjens. Then came spokesperson Perjan Moors, who insisted that no matter what, there should never be competition with private resources. At that time, I believe, Mr Roald van der Linde was a time spokesperson. And now it's Mrs. De Caluwe. She said in the last period: we are throwing it over a different path, we want there to be a public means in any case. I was pleased with the VVD's position, because within the cabinet, the Minister of VWS, Edith Schippers, and the Secretary of State for Finance, all of them VVD, insisted that there should be a public means at a high level of security quickly. So I, along with Mr Unicorn, also VVD, have chosen to come to this public resource. I am doing so as quickly as possible in this great Liberal Fest, but this is the context in which we must do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u84	This is a very funny story, but it's not quite the way it works. Yes, the spokesmen followed each other quickly, due to all kinds of circumstances, but there was a very consistent story from the VVD. It has been said as well: not only private. The Minister only wanted to go round the table with private parties, but we said: especially in sensitive areas, you should always be able to log in with a public means. We wanted a public resource. Pilots with private resources, okay, but then we wanted to assess whether those private resources could be allowed further. I've been holding on to that. That's what my predecessor Roald van der Linde kept. From him I took over this file and carried it through. It was also Perjan Moors' starting point. Now there has been an evaluation of the private resources. If they meet the conditions that still have to be met, they can participate. The story of the VVD has been constant all along. That has not therefore led to any delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u85	Well, let's go. Anyone could have experienced that differently. You wanted to push back on this subject and I will leave it at that. I welcome your support for what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u86	It is a very rousing story about the digital government and the great efforts that are being made. I'm gonna take a look at the State Department. We have just talked about democracy. Digitisation throughout democracy has been systematically destroyed. There have been no initiatives by the Minister to achieve the digitisation of the Election Act. There have been no proposals to deal effectively with voting procedures. Mr Taverne's whole proposal has been referred to the wastebasket. There is no initiative here in the Chamber to vote digitally. In short, there's still some way to go. In fact, I have had to submit an initiative law on the digitisation of the entire candidacy procedure. If the minister says the digital government is on track so well, I'd like to keep him in the mirror. It's pretty much behind on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u87	I have also set up a Van Beek Commission, including VVD, on the initiative of Mr Taverne of the VVD. That committee advised on the system of digital voting. When it turned out that this was not possible, I asked for an additional opinion from the Van Beek Committee. That's where I'm standing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u88	You ask for advice, but you don't come up with your own initiative. You do not give content in your own way to the digitisation of the entire journey. It is a path that the Minister clearly ends with the hand brake on it. The digitisation of the entire democratic process can lead to greater transparency and involvement of voters in the process. This digitization is in fact blocked by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u89	That's not right. I remember going to dinner with the president of the VNG, Annemarie Jorritsma, also VVD, when I arrived. She said to me: if there is one thing we could do at this time, it is electronic voting. I have come to the establishment of that committee, which has stressed the importance of a voting printer etc. It was then found that there were costs involved. The new president of the VNG, Jan van Zanen...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u90	We're not gonna ask which party he's from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u91	Which party he's from, I'll leave in the middle. The new chairman said he couldn't just pay the costs. That's where it's still hanging. I keep thinking it's an interesting direction in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u92	Then the VVD came up with an initiative bill on electronic voting. I believe that the Minister did not vote that out, but that was what the Chamber was about. Among other things, the Labour Party did not agree with the VVD's initiative proposal. So it's also sometimes the PvdA's fault. I shall return to those ballots, which we voted as a Chamber, but which once went through the Chamber as a pilot as a hammer piece. Second of all, we didn't like it. I thought you were gonna use those ballots for that electronic vote. The Chamber delayed the electronic voting process rather than we helped the cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u93	That's right, but it's no different. By the way, we still use these notes when voting abroad. The system remains in place and I hope that at some point there will be room for further progress. Thank you very much for this point. Mr President, I would like to move on to the following subject. That's discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u94	Perhaps not to the next subject, because I see that there are two more questions on the previous subject, first of all those of Mrs De Caluwe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u95	The Minister replied in writing to the question on the BRP. He indicated that the planning and costs will be included in the progress report in the spring, while this year, following the BIT report in April, it was stated in the progress report that we will reach €8.6 million on the basis of the comprehensive planning. Instead of 30 million, we're already over 90 million. It would also take a little longer, but the Minister said: this is it. Now I understand from the answer that, given KPMG's report, there is a real possibility that more money will be added and that more time will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u96	I can't rule it out. If so, I will inform the Chamber because the Chamber must authorize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u97	This means that we have a setback on the BRP due to the change made last summer. I would have liked to have heard that in the Chamber, because it has been said at the beginning of this year: that is what we are doing. We're over 90 million now. We have added 8.6 million more and we have integrated planning as requested by the BIT. We'll be done with it. How much longer is it gonna take? This thing with the BRP has been going on for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u98	Yeah, I share that sigh. It is not certain that it will lead to delays or overruns, but I will inform the Chamber if it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u99	I have an important question to the Minister about the report of the Cyber Security Council, which has been presented to the Prime Minister. In the written reply, the Minister states that he is a public-private person. We therefore appeal to the Minister for his public responsibility. He also mentions the Minister of V and J, while we have asked the Minister of BZK in his responsibility and not in his coordinating role what he is getting out of the report that is important for the public e-government in the context of cybersecurity. What exactly is he going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u100	The question I hear, but the answer remains that the colleague of V and J has the lead in cybersecurity. I also answered the question in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u101	It cannot be that we are talking here today about the digital government and that the minister of V and J is responsible at once. In my view, this also indicates exactly what we have struggled with in recent years. Each minister points to another minister at the digital government or the digital automation in the government. Whether it's Minister Blok or Minister Plasterk or the Minister of V and J, no one gives but at home. Does the Minister recognise that we have a coordinating problem in this sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u102	No, it's crystal clear. I'm a coordinating minister for the digitisation of government and local authorities. The Minister for National Service, Mr Blok, is responsible for its implementation at the Reich. Finally, the Minister of Security is the name says it is already responsible for the cyber threat and cyber security. If there is overlap, we do so in consultation or on behalf of a colleague. That division of labour is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u103	We'll do the interruptions in half. Thank you very much, Mr Amhaouch. Minister, then the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u104	One of my colleagues once said that a coordinating minister is a lamentable figure. So be it. On the following subject, discrimination, this is also true to some extent, because Mr Asscher has the lead in racism and integration. Fundamental rights and the Constitution, including Article 1, are primarily the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. At the beginning of this year, I came up with a National Action Programme against Discrimination. In order to prevent and combat discrimination on various grounds and areas, the various ministries undertake a large number of activities. I have launched anti-discrimination campaigns in this area. The system of anti-discrimination provisions is being given full attention. There will be a report on its progress about January, i.e. about a month from now. There has been, as has undoubtedly been seen in the media, the campaign'set a line by discrimination'. In January, this will be confirmed by the presentation of a digital platform in this field. A strong effort is being made to combat discrimination against municipalities. It becomes part of the digital platform. A new reporting system for police and anti-discrimination reporting is under way, and a National Human Rights Action Plan focusing on anti-discrimination is under way. There is a question to be asked here, so I see that we are extremely active.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u105	A campaign here and a campaign there. The campaign "set a line by discrimination" with a number of people who discriminate themselves and make strange statements, with someone who earns 6 tonnes a year. Is that how the Labour Party intends to tackle discrimination? Or is the Minister prepared to take on those who discriminate really hard, or is he afraid to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u106	Tackling criminal offences is the responsibility of the prosecution and the police and not of the BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u107	Your follow-up question, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u108	This shows that the Labour Party does not want to do anything against discrimination. If the Minister responsible for discrimination policy gets a question and answers in this way, he shows that the Labour Party has just released these important items for the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u109	Let me keep to myself what I think of this. The responsibility for prosecuting a serious criminal offence such as discrimination lies, of course, with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. What that has to do with the Labour Party, I'm not sure. Mr Öztürk was elected to that party in this Chamber and signed in writing that he would leave the Chamber if he left the party. I shall come back to that in a moment on Mr Klein's question. But Mr Öztürk is speaking here anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u110	Mr Öztürk, you are being addressed. You may respond one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u111	This Minister refuses to give an answer. I'm just saying, if someone he appointed for the campaign makes a wrong move, does the minister have the balls, does he dare to address this person?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u112	Sorry...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u113	Then he comes up with strange answers because he doesn't know, because he doesn't dare to address this person. Come on, just tell me what it says. On the question of who I was elected by: I was elected by the citizens of the Netherlands, and I got more votes than most PvdA people put together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u114	Thank you. I hope we're just gonna keep talking here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u115	I don't have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Öztürk. You have had three interruptions and the Minister has answered your question in his own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u117	Then I'll go on to the House for whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u118	If we want to have a proper debate, I assume that someone who is in box K will be able to give a decent answer and not react in this way. He's not answering my first-term question. That's why I'm reacting like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u119	Thank you. A decent debate also means using decent words. I would have liked to ask you the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u120	I refer to my previous answers. If it's about prosecution of criminal offences, it's a matter for the police and the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u121	Thank you, it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u122	I had asked a question about the Discrimination Point Internet. This has been stopped. The Minister replied that the Contact Point Discrimination Internet has been taken over by the Contact Point Internet Discrimination, MiND. However, MDI is included in the budget but MiND is not. So I'm not following this anymore. Can the Minister clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u123	I believe that this has been discussed in the debate on the V and J budget. It is part of the portfolio of the colleague of V and J. I shall come to the amendments in a moment. I realize that there is an amendment tabled by Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u124	I ask that question because I have received letters from COC Nederland, among others, which also refers to MiND. However, MiND does not appear in the budget. If the MDI or MiND exists, there is no need for concern. Or MiND doesn't exist or MDI doesn't. I don't run into MiND anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u125	I shall now turn to the amendment which refers to this. Again, this is part of the V and J budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u126	The Minister comes back to that amendment, but this is closely linked to it. So for me it's important that it's clear what's going on with MDI and MiND.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u127	I think this is answered in the amendment. We'll be so careful. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u128	I will then turn to the House for whistleblowers, Mr Van Raak's brainchild. He pulled that hard. My compliments on that. That started well in July of this year. According to the first report, which the House of Representatives also received, 338 referrals were examined. This concerns the period between 1 July and 1 September of this year. That's a short time. In 43 cases, it's a whistleblower shop. Seven applications for investigation have been submitted. Part of it's about treatment investigations. The board of the house has indicated that the budget for 2016 and 2017 is sufficient. I have no signals that the protection provided by the Whistleblowers' Law would not be sufficient. For the moment, therefore, I would like to limit it to this. That's how it was discussed with the quartermaster at the time. However, I share the importance of this, which Mr Van Raak spoke eloquently about in his first term. I can imagine that if there are well-founded signals that more needs to be done, then perhaps my successors will be here at that time or at any time. I think it's gotten off to a good start. I also replied in writing to the question. I also did so on the question of whether I can guarantee that I will not influence the investigation requested by Mr Frits Veerman at the House for whistleblowers. I can assure you of that. We deliberately put that away. Of course, I am not going to go along with that. The house must give an independent judgment on the requests addressed to the house. The same applies to this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u129	Thank you for the commitment that if there are signs coming out of the house that more people or resources are needed, they will be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u130	At least I'm gonna call it in here. I still have to cover it, of course. But: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u131	I am also pleased that the Minister says that the investigation into Frits Veerman's treatment can simply take place well and that no pressure is put on it. However, I am very sorry that the Minister says in his written reply that Mr Veerman's resignation was 'for reasons other than his report'. These are Room Room Room Room Room Room Room Room Room Room Room In this way, the Minister, in his written reply, draws a conclusion that might still influence the investigation. I would therefore ask the Minister not to do this in this way in the future. The House for Whistleblowers is going to do an investigation. I would very much like to see a substantive study carried out. In my opinion, the CTIVD can at least examine when the government was aware of these espionage activities and what influence may have been exercised by the CIA or other American services on the Dutch government or the Dutch BVD of that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u132	I was just writing about that second point of the CTIVD. But the first point...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u133	Veerman and that the minister says he's not going to exert any influence at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u134	Yeah, sorry. In my perception, that fact view is a reflection of a position taken by my predecessors on this point. So I did not want to create new facts here, but I wanted to illustrate what was already written on earlier occasions by predecessors and ministers of BZK. In this sense, I also feel that I am not interfering in anything, but that I repeat what my predecessors had already said. The CTIVD has the legal task of overseeing the legality of the actions of the AIVD and the STUDY. It lays down its own agenda. I can't order her to do a historical investigation. It must, however, have and see a role to play in this respect by virtue of its legal responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u135	The Court has done so more often in the past, even twice in connection with the terrorist attack on Theo van Gogh and the actions of the Hofstad group and Mohammed Bouyeri. Very recently, on my initiative, we asked the CTIVD to look at this matter again in a historical perspective. The CTIVD can do that, even in a historical perspective. If the Minister is not prepared to do so, I will put that question to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u136	The Chamber can indeed do so itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u137	That doesn't ask for an answer. My plea would be: leave that to the House for whistleblowers. But with that, I'm gonna scratch it open again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u138	You're gonna get one more question out of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u139	Now we've been discussing this law for so long with the two of us. In the Wet Huis voor bellblowers, secret services are expressly excluded. The House for whistleblowers can't investigate secret services. That is also why the house will have to leave it to the CTIVD, if that happens at the request of the house. Then it seems to me more purer that we do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u140	Then that's clarified. I am therefore through the issues I have specifically dealt with. I'll see if I have anything to add to the response per person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u141	"Other" and "per person," I still had those cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u142	I thought I had all answered Mr Van Raak's questions in writing, but I can see from his body language that that is obviously not true. I intended to say something specifically about depoliticising local government, but I have already done so in my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u143	I had two questions. The Minister stated in his reply that he was not aware that municipalities would be setting up fewer polling stations in the forthcoming Lower House elections. This is well known to me, for example district center De Zuwe, art gallery Het Web, St. Martinusschool in Gaanderen and senior complex Henricushoeve in Wehl; that is all in Doetinchem. So in Doetinchem alone we go back from 33 to 29. That's only in Doetinchem. I think that's going to happen in a lot more municipalities. I don't think that's possible. One of the reasons why people decide not to vote is that it is too far: they cannot achieve it, because they are bad on their feet. Can the Minister assure us that all polling stations or as many polling stations in municipalities will open up as in the previous national elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u144	Organising accessible elections is a legal task for the municipalities. They must do so fairly and have a budget for the fixed financing of the Community fund. So I see no reason why municipalities should do less. Nor do I have any indications that they are doing so structurally. This is without prejudice to the fact that an individual municipality decides at any time which polling stations are to be set up. But I really want to prevent us from politicising prior to each election and discussing individual decisions by municipalities in which house or place a polling station is set up. The legal responsibility of the municipalities is crystal clear. We need a well-accessible election, and they also have a budget for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u145	There are much less, more than 10%, 15%. It goes from 33 to 29 in Doetinchem, so there are just fewer. It doesn't matter where: less! Does the Minister agree with me that this is not the intention? Is he willing to call Doetinchem and tell him that's not possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u146	It is primarily up to the municipal administration of Doetinchem to organise it responsibly for the citizens of Doetinchem. I do not know enough about the situation on the ground. If they have four polling stations less than last time and if they have good reasons for doing so, they could. If the local government believes that a mistake is being made, then it is up to the local authorities to be held accountable. I have no reason to believe that there is a trend here. During this period we have seen many elections: European, States, city council. I do not recall that it was a subject of debate earlier in the House of Representatives if a polling station was not opened somewhere in Doetinchem. The general answer is clear: it is a legal task of the municipal administration to ensure that there are sufficient and accessible polling stations. We have also had a debate on the accessibility of Mrs Oosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u147	Do you have a question at this point or do you have another question, Mrs Voortman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u148	Yeah, right here. It was indeed an amendment by me and Otwin van Dijk when we discussed the bill on the UN Convention. Accessibility is, of course, not only about whether you enter the polling station, but also whether it is close enough. If there are really municipalities, I do not know the example of Doetinchem as well as Mr Van Raak.... where there are significantly fewer voting rooms, you might ask yourself whether accessibility is not at stake and whether there is therefore no conflict with that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u149	If that were the case, that would be the case, so if we suddenly had 10% fewer polling stations across the board. However, I have no reason to think and expect that. Anyway, it's been discussed here. All the municipalities are listening, so everyone can see it as a call to just take that legal responsibility. Again, let's not create a problem where it isn't. My view is that municipalities are well aware that it is a legal task to organise well-accessible elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u150	Sometimes it can be helpful for a minister to tell us what's going on. In my opinion, that was the only question Mr Van Raak asked, at least to consult and ask Doetinchem about the situation. It can already have an effect, also towards other municipalities, just to have a clear picture of accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u151	What I would rather do, if I were to put the sign on, is to make sure, in a subsequent administrative consultation with the VNG, that she recognizes that there would be fewer polling stations. Then it will again be a system responsibility. I still want to stay away from the idea that we are going to direct the municipality of Doetinchem from the Lower House. I'll admit I'll do it that way. With Mrs De Caluwé I have had an extensive exchange of views on the various points. I even let myself be tempted to a little more detail than I intended. Thank you for your support on the subcluster issue. I appreciate that. Mr Amhaouch has raised a number of points, of which I would like to say something in addition to the written response, namely precario rights. It was an initiative by Mr Veldman to draw attention to it by way of motion. When he raised this issue, I was convinced that there is in fact a classic player's dilemma there, namely that municipalities can supplement their budgets at the expense of the inhabitants of other municipalities and that this will lead to a race towards ever higher rates. I have said that two steps must now be taken. First, we need to stop the bleeding, so we need to stop that increase immediately. Secondly, the precario for the underground networks must disappear. Those municipalities will have to cover that themselves. Because that is a gap of around 120 million for all municipalities together, we have given them an ingrowth period. So it is seen to arrive in the long term. However, we are not going to compensate, because other municipalities have never asked their citizens to do so. The municipalities which have done so for a number of years may have done something useful, but will have to anticipate that it will have to be adjusted downwards in the coming years and eventually disappear. We are doing this now, I believe, with the support of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u152	We are, of course, also in favour of introducing that law. Meanwhile, however, we read that more and more municipalities are going to raise and raise even more. The number of municipalities is therefore increasing and the amounts are increasing. That's an undesirable effect, isn't it? When's that law gonna come?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u153	It is no longer allowed by 1 January 2017. I have indeed been pointed out by a number of municipalities. I believe that we have discussed this in detail in an AO. There are two categories. There were a number of municipalities, I think 35, which had already put him in their regulation when the announcement came from the Empire and some had even charged him at that time. They both called for a transition situation. In good consultation, we said that it is also understandable, because they expected that they could do so. So we will tolerate that in the transitional situation, but not after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u154	So municipalities that have thrown up the precario this year are allowed to reduce them for another ten years? Are you also looking at the value itself? Or can they raise themselves even if they're in that intermediate phase? So not only about time, but also about the amount of the amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u155	They can't raise it now. Those who had already decided in consultation with their city council to do so, when they could not yet know that we were going to introduce that law to stop it, have relied on the fact that they did it in good faith. I have said that I can imagine. By the way, if they fill that out now and think "we can do structurally beautiful things about it," they have to realize that they will have to adjust it down again in the coming years and that it will be gone in ten years' time. So my advice to these municipalities would be: don't do that, because in the end it has little now and you also know that we shouldn't want that. I'm moving on fast. Mrs Fokke has included it for the LSA, the tenant association, and has tabled an amendment. I will come to that in a moment, but leave the judgment to the Chamber. There is also an amendment to the W&R budget, but that is, of course, the responsibility of the colleague to give his opinion on it. I have already responded in writing to the plan of attack to give young people a greater role in democracy. That seems extremely good to me. I replied in writing to Mrs Oosenbrug. In particular, on the issue of open government, which she has also drawn to, I say that next week there will be a big session in Paris, where we may be able to express what we are doing, but perhaps also come back with inspiration for other examples of how we can carry it forward. Indeed, I met Mr Bosma ten years ago when I became Minister of OCW and he was a spokesperson for culture for his party. With all the great political differences that are always between him and me and which we should not wash away, I have always regarded him as a "welcome Social Democrat," may I say. It's probably mutual. He specifically asked me about Gregory Nekschot and on this occasion to give a little more insight into how that matter ended up in the Balkenende IV cabinet. Perhaps this is one of the last debates we will have in this setting, so the temptation is great to meet him. But I really think that the secret of the Trêveszaal should remain intact. It is not for me to give further insight into that. So I can't help him at this point. I believe that the entire patriotic press had once again been pulled out for the black-and-white debate, but it has been in full glory here in this Chamber this afternoon. I just wanted to leave this out. I think I have answered Mr Bosma's other questions in writing. I would like to thank him, despite the great differences of opinion, for the good debates we always have. I come to Mrs Koşer Kaya. I have already said a few things about the administrative agenda in the general introduction. Thank you for the note with the great role for the region. I was only able to read the note this afternoon, but it is in itself in line with a trend also highlighted by the Public Administration Study Group, namely the growing importance of the region. I believe that this will also play a major role in the debate on internal governance in the coming years. I have said a great deal to Mrs Voortman about deliberative democracy in particular. We're on the same page. She asked me to take some points with me to the colleagues of VWS and V and J. That's what I'm telling you. Mr Bishop, who had already announced that he would not be here until the end, thank you for his input. I have also responded to his acknowledgement that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has a role as an oil man. So I appreciate him recognizing that. He asked about the Sunday law. It is, I believe, currently being dealt with here in the House of Representatives. Mr Öztürk has argued that we should reduce the voting age from 18 years to 16. I would like to refer to my predecessor, Mrs Bijleveld, who has previously focused on this and concluded that, in line with most European countries, she sees no intention to do so. So the government doesn't have that intention. Finally, Mr Klein had two points; I was just referring to them. He said he'd want to abolish the provinces. I wouldn't want that. I realize that I have started my period with a discussion about reorganising the county administration, but always for the sake of recognizing the central government. In recent years, I have experienced more than before that it is indeed important in the Netherlands, Mrs Koşer Kaya also referred to this in her contribution "to have more in the direction of the region a level of governance that fits in with it, which has responsibilities, such as the role of supervisor in the municipalities and other responsibilities at the level of the middle management. I understand his opinion, but I have another one. He specifically asked for the political parties asking the candidates they put on the list to record in writing that they would give up their seats when they left that party. He asked me to confirm that those who do not comply with that written agreement can keep their seats. That's correct. Of those who act contrary to what they have given their word for, you can say that they break their word and that they do not stand for their signature. You can have an ethical view of that, but you can't stop them from breaking that word by law and keeping that seat. The cabinet also has no intention of making a change to that. This is in response to Mr Klein's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u156	This answer to Mr Klein's question provokes a question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u157	It is very good that you say that the word "party" is not in the Tickets Act. The Election Act stipulates that there is a relationship between the elected and the electorate. The chosen ones are here and the seats are among the chosen ones. But here's what I'm really sorry about. You have been making a remark for a while that there are robbers of seats, but at the moment when a party, a party leader, does not keep its word and squanders its ideals, a number of Members of Parliament leave. Five MPs left your party. That says something, doesn't it? Why don't you ever respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u158	This is what I know because I did it myself at the time. I note that if you are a candidate for a political party, you will confirm that in writing and sign that you will give up your seat to the Chamber if you leave that party. That's what's gonna happen. When people break their word, it is in a moral sense robbery, but you cannot stop them from doing so under state law. We have had debates on whether you should not change that, but the disadvantages of this are greater than the benefits in the government's view. I understand that the Chamber is considering a number of aspects more closely in the context of the Rules of Procedure. I'll stay out of it. Those are the business of the House of Representatives. So I'm holding up the word "seat robberies"; you're not standing up for your word. A man a man, a word a word. But it can be done under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u159	But what if the party leadership doesn't keep her word? A man's a man, a word's a word's a waste of her ideals and so many MPs leave? Let us be honest: over the last four years, a lot of Members of Parliament have left different parties. Doesn't that mean something? As the Minister of the Interior, you can also think about the question of how that is to be done. Should we not do something about our political system to prevent this kind of thing? Why don't you think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u160	Seat robbery, I think, you'll always keep. It's no different. You can find anything you want, but you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u161	Okay. Mr Klein has another question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u162	I want to stay out of the discussion about what is stolen or not, and how you should do it; the Robin Hoods of this democracy. It was a completely different point. The point is that a statement has no legal meaning. In fact, you do two things with that. A party asking for such a statement deprives candidates of the opportunity to be candidates, because if you do not want to sign that statement, you cannot be candidates for that party either. That's a form of blackmail. On the other hand, it is also a form of electoral deception, because you promise the electorate that you will keep your word, but that is nowhere enforceable. People vote for candidates from parties. They think it's crazy if they just sit around, because it's constitutionally arranged like that. For the sake of transparency and clarity of the electoral process, it would be wise for the Minister of State to make it clear that such statements mean nothing, or at least nothing more than a moral appeal within the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u163	We may disagree about the difference between nothing and a moral apple. If someone does not win the electorate on his own because he has received 2,000 votes, I think it is worth it if that person then enters the Chamber, because the party for which he has been proposed is apparently receiving electoral support. That person can agree with his party in black and white that he will make his seat available if there is any reason whatsoever; of course I leave that in the middle to leave the party. On the other hand, a person who is not self-employed can win a seat, partly thanks to the support for his or her list leader. In moral terms, I do not think that is a illogical arrangement. But I agree with Mr Klein that it is not legally enforceable, as it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u164	Therefore, it is also wise, for example, to point out in a declaration of consent candidates that, although you can agree, you can never be held to a declaration that has only internal effect within a party and therefore is of no use to you. It is quite clear to the electorate that everyone who has been elected will be elected in a personal capacity, because the Constitution, Article 67 (3), explicitly assumes that each Member will vote without burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u165	That's not the point. We have a list set, and that means that people who have never heard of anyone in the Netherlands can be elected to this Chamber because they are on a list with enough people voting because they seem to think the list, the party or the leader of the list is important. I can imagine that such a party would meet with someone on that list: we would like you on the list...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u166	Can you calm down a little bit in the room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u167	... but you have promised in writing that in the event that you step out of the party you will give up the seat. But that's just a promise. Not everyone keeps their promises. That is a fact that one will have to live with. That is the real consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u168	I also made a point of the limited attention in this budget for human rights in the Netherlands in my first term. We rightly pay a great deal of attention to human rights abroad, but in the Netherlands, as far as I am concerned, we are getting rid of them. In the reply, the Minister indicated that we have the National Human Rights Action Plan. But I find that answer too thin, because at the same time you can see that NGOs are also very critical. In the Bringing Human Rights Home report, 23 NGOs indicate that the situation of human rights in the Netherlands has deteriorated in many areas. I'd like to hear from the Minister what he's going to do on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u169	I understand that Mrs Voortman wants more, but we discussed the Human Rights Action Plan in general earlier and drew conclusions from it. I can assure Mrs Voortman that I share her concern. It is not true that human rights are just a problem in a distant country. They can also be serious in the Netherlands, for example when it comes to young people, refugees and trafficking in women. That is why we have identified this in the action plan and identified action points. Like Mrs Voortman, I think it is right that NGOs should pay attention to this, because it is not just something in a distant world, it can also be discussed here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u170	I welcome this recognition, but what does the Minister think about organisations indicating that the human rights situation in the Netherlands has deteriorated over the past five years? Is he saying he doesn't recognize that? Or does he say there's something in there and he's gonna do something about it? What's the Minister's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u171	I imagine that's what they say. It could be related to the situation of refugees and other situations, which means that there is renewed attention to them. I appreciate it when the cat is tied to the bell. I can appeal to my colleagues on the basis of my coordinating responsibility. You often end up in the field of youth care, criminal law or the police. So I think it is useful that these signals are coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u172	In the first term, I asked the Minister, because this is his last budget, if he is actually happy himself. A question has also been asked about national happiness. In particular, in recent months, I have noticed that the Minister is less happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u173	Mr President, I find this a strange question. May I interrupt Mr Öztürk? I don't think that's the issue. I speak on behalf of the cabinet. If there are any questions about government policy, I am happy to answer them. Furthermore, I have nothing to do with Mr Öztürk's happiness or mine. Besides, there's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u174	I think Mr Öztürk is going to ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u175	I don't understand why the Minister would respond to such a question. That says something, I think, about his...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u176	We don't have to have the conversation here about each other's personal state of mind. This is about the content of the internal affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u177	My question relates in particular to the following. There are countries that rely on gross national happiness. I asked the Minister if he was happy and what he would advise in his old age to make the Netherlands happier. He didn't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u178	My personal analysis is that the minister is not ready for his old age.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u179	This doesn't make any sense. I do not wish to give an answer to this. Mr Öztürk can do anything...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u180	Mr Öztürk, in second instance? You don't have to, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u181	I am particularly sorry about the way the Minister has dealt with this in recent months. This is not the minister we've ever met, the old Uncle Roon. I see a very frustrated minister. I don't know why. Maybe he'll write that down in a booklet and we'll be able to read afterwards exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u182	The people in this room themselves are concerned with their own personal state of mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u183	I'm a pretty emotional person apparently, but I really don't think I can do this. I think that we in this house should treat each other in a decent way. I don't think this is decent. That is my personal opinion, which I want recorded in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u184	I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u185	Like I said, we're not gonna talk about each other's personal state of mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u186	Which, by the way, is fine before that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u187	Which, by the way, is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u188	For the record, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u189	Then I am happy to continue discussing the amendments. Then perhaps around 10.30 p.m. we will come to the conclusion of the government's first term in a very good state of mind. As far as the amendment by the Labour Party is concerned, I have already said that I will leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u190	That is the amendment to item No. 14?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u191	Yeah, it's gotta be. I do not recommend the D66 amendment on the anti-discrimination fund. Implementation of the National Action Programme is progressing well. I'll report to the Chamber on that shortly. I think it makes more sense to speak in that context than to reserve unfocused money now. By the way, the Internet Discrimination (MiND), formerly the Discrimination Internet (MDI), is subsidised by the Ministries of V and J and of SZW, not by the Ministry of BZK. I see no reason to transfer that subsidy responsibility to BZK now. For the rest, I refer to the discussion on this matter with the departments which have the portfolio responsibility for this. Those are the departments mentioned. I would therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u192	I would ask you, Mr Klein, to wait a moment, because we have just completed it. You then came forward when the Minister began to give his opinion on the amendments. When we're done with that, I'd be happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u193	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but the distance between where I'm allowed to sit and the interrupting microphone is such that I just couldn't make it with the Minister's incredible speed. There was one more question I would like clarification about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u194	Mrs Koşer Kaya, who is also at the microphones, is happy to give you that opportunity. So we are going to do this first and then we are going to deal with Mrs Koşer Kaya's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u195	It concerns the reply on the subsidy of the local parties. The Minister has indicated that it is "dismunicipality" to do so. National does national and local does local, if possible. But does the Minister not ignore the fact that the national political parties use the subsidy to also provide the training, training and activities of local council members? National subsidies are then used for the local politicians of the national parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u196	This is an old discussion. The system as it is now set up means that at each level of government the relevant governance at that level can allocate and distribute resources to the political parties concerned. Europe therefore subsidises European political parties and the Empire subsidises national political parties. It is up to the municipalities to do so with local parties. So that's the system we have now. Mr Klein says: it may be that a national political party also has local convenience from the fact that it receives national subsidies. I do not contradict that in itself, but that is up to those national political parties. But it is really up to the local government to decide whether they want to make money available for support or training or otherwise to grant subsidies to the existing local political parties. So you come to the question of what the subsidy base is. It must be based on something, for example on the previously obtained number of seats. But what's the level period? This should then be set at that corresponding level. It seems to me that we should not decide for Doetinchem what the local political party can claim for funding. That's really up to the town council of Doetinchem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u197	There are two things. First of all, you could apply the national scheme, the Finance Act political parties, to all local parties. Then the extent and the way in which this law is applied to the national parties is exactly the same for the local parties. So that's just the system. Secondly, if he is consistent in his reasoning, the Minister should adjust the terms of the grant as set out in the Financing Act political parties. He should then explicitly include: you should not use your money for local politicians. It is now explicitly stated that the subsidy which a national political party may receive may be used for education and training and recruitment and selection. I'm fine with that. I think that's very reasonable, too. But do not measure with double standards and ensure that local politicians from local parties get the same opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u198	The Finance Act political parties is very clear. It defines when you need to be able to prove that you have so many members or so many seats. That is the basis for the distribution of the subsidy. If, as is already the case in the First Chamber, someone in this Chamber is elected as representative of a collection of local political parties, then the Financing Act applies, of course, to political parties at national level. However, we cannot go into the area of 390 municipalities to determine which local political party deserves support there. So I think the system is pretty clear. Suppose the SP gets a grant and thus sets up a training programme that local politicians also learn something about, then of course you cannot cut it with scissors. If a party is represented in the House of Representatives according to the Finance Act, it will receive a national grant. If she uses part of it for things that other members have ease of, that is part of the party activity and this results from the logic of the Financing Political Parties Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u199	I think Koşer Kaya has a question in relation to her amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u200	The Minister deals with the National Action Programme against Discrimination. The financial resources for the hotlines are at V and J or Social Affairs. That just shows how easy it's all organized. I think it would help the Minister if this were transferred to the Home Office, but that is not what my question is about. There is a lack of clarity and I would like to comment on that, perhaps in writing later. The 2017 budget of V and J states that money goes to the Communication Point Discrimination Internet (MDI) and not to the Internet Discrimination hotline (MiND). I certainly can't find it in Social Affairs, so I'd like to know exactly what's going on here. Can this be sent to me in writing so that I can look again at the amendment? Moreover, this amendment supports the action programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u201	You mean that it is sent to the Chamber in writing and not only to you, Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u202	It's strictly a question to my colleague from V and J. I'd like to commit myself to directing the demand for him. I can imagine that he would do his best to give an opportunity to answer that question. I really need to put that down with him, but I promise I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u203	That should not happen on occasion. My question isn't that complicated. That can be done quite quickly, even before we vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u204	Then I will not do it, because it is not up to me to make commitments on behalf of my colleague from V and J. I would like to do my best to do this, but it is not for me to be strict. To meet Mrs Koşer Kaya, I will pass on that question to my colleague from V and J. Strictly speaking, I am not going to answer his question. Let us do it this way, because then all the responsibilities will be clear again. So I'm gonna admit that I will. I am now looking at Mr Amhaouch, because there is an amendment before him on the redistribution of the Community fund. That sounds more mysterious than I mean, but I had already said that this redistribution is not strictly regulated in the budget of the Community Fund. If you want that to be different, you can't actually do it per amendment. Apart from that, I would advise against taking that decision now, because I have promised a number of Members to include it in the review of the Municipal Fund. I will leave the argument of form in the middle, but I would advise against taking that decision now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u205	I don't know if it should be an amendment. Bureau for Legislation indicated: amendment. We shall also table a motion in a moment. Then we'll have them both and we can always move in one more. On the basis of what arguments does the Minister advise against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u206	I can repeat this, although I have just indicated it. I think there are some questions to ask about the opinions to fully implement this, because there are a number of uncertainties. I was impressed by the aldermen of finance to really be careful with late, unforeseen and major budget changes. It's finally a zero sum game, so what comes with one municipality goes away from the other municipality. We did some of it. So I now make the choice not to add the last blow to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u207	The minister's talking about the aldermen. I believe that the UNG is its interlocutor and the representative of the interests of all the municipalities. Maybe I'm repeating myself now, but again, it could be 51%. If we adopt a motion in this Chamber, if only by one vote, it has been adopted. If 60% of the municipalities vote in favour of a motion, it is adopted. There's more than one report. I really do... of course I have to stay clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u208	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u209	I find it incomprehensible. That's neat, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u210	Very neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u211	I find it incomprehensible that the Minister here is failing the people who do not live in the cities, who live in the rural regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u212	In the end, the budget is not made in the VNG's Assembly of Members, but here. There the proportions were about fifty-fifty, because of course every member of the VNG calculates on the pocket calculator whether or not he will progress. That vote was 51% against 49%. Within the measurement accuracy, that's fifty-fifty. The VNG wrote me in a letter that she "pointed" on the motion. That was a reluctant statement, because the Association of Dutch Municipalities of course also realizes that what comes from one bee goes away from the other. I have given reasons why I believe that we should not do that again for another 100 million, because then the blow in a number of municipalities comes very hard. There is a chance that the next re-examination will show that some of it would have to be pushed back. The municipalities have urged me to adapt with late, unexpected and large fluctuations. That decision must be taken here and not at the UN Assembly of Members. My proposal to the Chamber is therefore to implement the proposal before us for two thirds and to involve that last part in the review. A number of municipalities benefit from this. That's not always the big city versus rural communities. That's very close. This is the proposal I'm making.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u213	This brings to an end the first-term response and the assessment of the amendments tabled. We're moving on to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u214	Mr. Chairman. Hellendoorn got €61,000 for organizing the Ukraine referendum, spent €16,000 and pocketed €45,000. Democracy is an expensive duty and not a cheap milk cow. We can easily figure out what municipalities have spent and what they have put in their own pocket. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to recover the money left by municipalities for the organisation of the Ukraine referendum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u215	Forty years ago, Frits Veerman exposed the world's greatest nuclear espionage. There's gonna be a treatment investigation right now, but that's not enough. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ask the CTIVD to investigate the nuclear espionage by Pakistani spy Abdul Khan in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u216	In the written response to my request to grant Edward Snowden asylum, the Minister writes that Snowden should apply for asylum in person in the Netherlands. He is, of course, afraid of being sent straight to America. This can be avoided in the context of national interest. All we need is a promise from the minister that we won't send him to America. Then he will come to the Netherlands, we can give him political asylum and we can give this hero a more decent and better life. The fact that the government is hiding behind a procedure with someone who is so important to our citizens and our country is really impossible. That's why I have this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, whistleblower Edward Snowden to grant political asylum in our country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u217	I give the floor to Mrs De Caluwe on behalf of the VVD Group. She has seven minutes left for her second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u218	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. I would also like to thank him for the written answer on long-term planning. I consider that a commitment; thank you very much for that. Before I get to my motions, I would like to speak briefly about the eID and the BRP. The minister was a little too light on the eID, with jokes about all kinds of VVDs. The common thread of this project is that the basis is not in order. The room's been reassigned. We have again received support from the General Court and the BIT. We have a debate on 18 January. In December, documents will come, which I look very much forward to. I hope that this will put the foundations in place, for which we have been fighting for so long, often supported Parliament-wide. Those documents must be in good shape. Otherwise, we will have a solid debate on 18 January. I'll be on the BRP. At a late stage an adaptation was made to the foundation of the project, namely the code generators. That is a bit of a flaunting in the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber, namely that it has led to improvements. Why didn't the Minister report that part of this project is being redesigned? That's what I'm getting from KPMG's report. That question to the Minister is still open. I now come to a number of motions. First of all, I would like to come back to the special group of experts on the English model. In his written reply, the Minister indicated that he would seek renewal through the involvement of private companies in projects, the adoption of ICT experts and the future tests for renewal by the BIT. However, this concerns the use of people for regular projects and routes. My proposal is precisely about, outside projects to stimulate innovation by a kind of laboratory for innovative ideas. This is exactly what the VVD says is missing. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the transition to a digital government is slow;]] [[Whereas digitalisation projects often rely on so-called proven technology, which already appears obsolete when implemented;]] [[Whereas an adequate digitalisation agenda calls for innovative and groundbreaking measures in the field of ICT and related work processes;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to create a small group of creative innovators in ICT, whether or not in a changing occupation;]] [[involve non-governmental experts and have them put forward concrete proposals for innovative digital products, requested and unsolicited;]] [[to finance this unit from the existing ICT budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Caluwe. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u219	In the first period, I also asked for attention to be given to the possibility of accessing or using your data in the long term. At Mrs Koşer Kaya's questions, the Minister indicated that she was working on this. Well, that's nice, of course. The VVD very much wants individual citizens to have more control over their own data. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the digitalisation of the government should put the user at the centre;]] [[Whereas this user of digital services should also be able to rely on the reliability and safety of those services;]] [[calls on the Government to find out within what period and with what budget can be achieved that all users are given the direction of their data, in such a way that:]] [[they shall be given access to any official who has inspected, used or provided such information to another person;]] [[they have the possibility to designate themselves bodies and organisations to which a limited number of personal data can be provided automatically;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Caluwé and Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u220	I would like to comment on the answers to questions I have put to my colleague, Mr Veldman, in relation to previous questions. These concern the status of the pooling of financial resources and the status of an action plan on public information systems. The Minister replied, but that answer does not really show a sense of urgency, if I may put it that way. As regards the status of the information management action plan, the Minister indicated that he would return to this in 2017. I would like to ask him: when in 2017? Is that what happens in the first quarter? I would like an answer to that. Then the redistribution of the Municipal Fund cluster VHROSV. The Minister indicated that he does not wish to proceed with a further division. That's what the VVD advocated. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government has decided not to redistribute a third and last tranche of 33% in the Housing, Spatial Planning and Urban Renewal Subcluster of the Municipal Fund;]] [[having noted that there are, inter alia, positive opinions from the Financial Relations Council on full redistribution within the subcluster;]] [[Whereas the full implementation of this redistribution now results in a large fluctuation in the Community Fund;]] [[Considering that large fluctuations in the Gemeentefonds are undesirable, as also argued in 2015 by 234 aldermen of finance in a petition to the Lower House;]] [[calls on the government to make a further assessment of the remaining issues of the subcluster Housing, Spatial Planning and Urban Renewal in the full review of the Municipal Fund for which the Lower House requested the government in November 2015 by Veldman motion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Caluwe and Mr Fokke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-B-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u221	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a few motions. I very much hope that the first motion will be adopted by at least 51%. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a debate on the desirability of setting up a State Committee on reflection parliamentary system had taken place in the First Chamber without the involvement of the Government;]] [[noting that this debate did not take place in the Lower House;]] [[Whereas consideration should be given to the election, tasks, position and functioning of the parliamentary system and democracy;]] [[calls on the Government, a State Committee, not to set up a parliamentary system before a debate has taken place in the House of Representatives on the desirability and the terms of reference,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van Raak, Mr Bishop and Mr Martin Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u222	We had already tabled an amendment. The Minister made a few comments. That is why I am now putting forward a motion on the redistribution of resources. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the costs of municipalities and the distribution model of the subcluster Housing, Spatial Planning and Urban Renewal (VHROSV) are no longer compatible;]] [[Whereas the investigation of Cebeon, follow-up research by AEF, the Financial Relations Council (Rfv) and the VNG advise that the distribution of the subcluster VHROSV be adjusted;]] [[noting that the government intends to only partially adjust the distribution of the subcluster VHROSV;]] [[calls on the government to fully adapt the distribution of the subcluster VHROSV in line with the opinions of Cebeon, AEF, Rfv and VNG,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-B-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u223	The next motion, on the right to challenge, the challenge law and the procurement rules, we have not been able to explain in the first period. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the challenge law enshrined in the Social Support Act as a result of complex procurement rules does not appear to work in practice;]] [[Whereas the challenge law is very important to involve society in tackling societal issues;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine which procurement rules impede the application of the challenge law in the Wmo, to make proposals for simplification and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u224	In order to help the Minister in the area of digitisation, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cyber Security Council in the report "The economic and social need for more cybersecurity: The Netherlands digitally dry feet" recommends, inter alia, that the government organise its own digital infrastructure and business operations;]] [[Whereas public authorities have a major responsibility for digital security in the public domain;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to ensure digital security in the public domain and to inform the Court of Justice thereof before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u225	Then I come to my last motion, including this one in the area of digitalisation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the vast majority of citizens have DigiD;]] [[Whereas reliable identification is indispensable in the digital communication between public authorities and citizens;]] [[Whereas the government is responsible for secure digital communications;]] [[Calls on the Government to take measures to ensure the safe and reliable use of DigiD and to inform the Chamber thereof before 1 February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u226	My final point. In the written reply, the Minister states that the water damage and the emergency law are not the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior but of those of V and J. However, we have found in the documents that the Disaster Compensation Act is indeed the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. We like to get a response to the question of whether we are talking about the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u227	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Fokke as the first speaker on behalf of the Labour Party. It has five minutes for its second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Then I can read my motions very slowly. No, I won't! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for all the clear answers. I'm glad he's letting the LSA amendment judge Chamber. We're probably going to vote on that on Tuesday. I think it is good that an attempt is also being made from the Home Office to keep the subsidy for the LSA in order. After all, the LSA does very important things. I have two motions. Indeed, the Minister has already said a few things about the democratic renewal and how he intends to deal with it. In this context, he spoke about the experimental law, but I think it is a good thing that the Chamber should also give its opinion on it. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas democracy is more than once every four years;]] [[Considering that several committees have now shed light on the democratic renewal at local level;]] [[Whereas there are also different ideas on this subject from local democracy;]] [[considers that a blueprint from above will not be the solution;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of the wishes of local democracy regarding experiments involving democratic renewal and to consider ways of removing obstacles to such experiments;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fokke, Mr Koşer Kaya, Mr De Caluwé and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u229	Secondly, I was very pleased with the Minister's response to involving young people in politics. It is also something that a Minister of the Interior should be particularly interested in. Maybe that's why this motion is primarily an encouragement motion. I think it is an important issue that should simply remain on the agenda in The Hague. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are several good initiatives to make young people politically active early on;]] [[considers that the involvement of young people in politics needs to be improved;]] [[believes that policies to involve young people in politics are fragmented;]] [[calls on the government to come up with an action plan to increase the involvement of young people in politics, taking advantage of the good initiatives already in place, such as ProDemos, Student Parliament and the Model European Parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fokke, Mr Koşer Kaya, Mr De Caluwé, Mr Voortman and Mr Van Raak.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u230	That's it as far as I'm concerned!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u231	I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Oosenbrug, also on behalf of the Labour Party. She has four minutes left for her second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u232	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and, of course, the officials for answering the questions that I had. However, I have prepared two motions which deal with issues that I consider important and which I would like to keep clearly on the retina. I'm just gonna read these motions now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that new European privacy rules have been in force since 25 May 2016;]] [[Notes that on 25 May 2018, all organisations in the European Union, including municipalities and other public organisations, must comply with these new rules;]] [[noting that the protection of privacy is more than the establishment of rules and the monitoring of their compliance;]] [[Whereas it is expensive and time-consuming to have each organisation in the public administration invent its own wheel in this area;]] [[Considering that what works well within one government layer cannot be bad for other governments;]] [[noting that reports on privacy issues, in particular in municipalities, are constantly being published in the media;]] [[calls on the government, in practice, to address well-functioning approaches and to bring to the attention of the municipalities privacy measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas open source software can deliver a number of important societal benefits such as information security, more efficient government and a more transparent government, matters of major importance for a functioning digital government;]] [[Whereas making available software developed under its own management as an open source software can make an important contribution to this social added value;]] [[noting that government is becoming increasingly active in the standard provision of government data as open data;]] [[noting that the government is hardly active in the standard provision of the source code of proprietary software;]] [[calls on the Government to present a vision document addressing the question of whether and how source code of proprietary software can be made available as open source software,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oosenbrug, Mr Voortman and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-27]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oosenbrug, Mr Voortman and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u233	Those were my motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u234	We shall then move on to Mrs Koşer Kaya on behalf of the D66 Group. Mr Bosma has indicated that he has waived the second term. Mrs. Koşer Kaya has two minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u235	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. Tonight I have not seen the guardian of fundamental rights here. There is still a great deal to be done. In fact, hardly a word has been dirtyed by this minister, even though it is very important that we protect fundamental rights at all times and not double standards. I have two motions. The content is clear. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that large groups of Dutch people feel disadvantaged, that awareness of discrimination is low and that online discrimination is increasing;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the Human Rights College, interest organisations and (municipal) anti-discrimination provisions in order to develop together an approach that is socially acceptable and feasible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u236	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the exchange of information between European intelligence and security services is crucial to combating terrorism;]] [[noting that this cooperation has not yet been fully achieved;]] [[calls on the Government to further optimise cooperation between European services and to use a full mandate with associated democratic control for the European intelligence service INTCEN,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u237	I have tabled a motion with Mrs De Caluwé which states that the customer should be at the heart of privacy and internet usage. At least, Mrs De Caluwe has submitted it on my behalf. I am very pleased with that and hope for the support of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u238	I now give the floor to Mrs Voortman on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. She too has two minutes to make her contribution to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u239	Mr. Chairman. I think I'll leave it at one minute, because next week I have a budget treatment for Social Affairs. I could use some time there. I'll start with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that 23 human rights organisations have issued a report to the United Nations on the situation of human rights in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that this report concludes that the elderly and people with disabilities are excluded, systematically discriminates against the police, treats vulnerable refugees poorly and puts strong pressure on the privacy of Dutch people;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a comprehensive response to this report in the short term and to implement the various opinions contained in the report on human rights safeguards where possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u240	I am tabling this motion because I am afraid of such conclusions. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he feels about that. Then he can let you know in such an extensive response. I would also like to say that I was pleased with the discussion we had on deliberative democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u241	Thank you. Right in the minute. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of the Kuzu/Öztürk Group, because Mr Bishop apologized. He is now celebrating his 60th birthday in a small circle. Mr Öztürk, you have one minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u242	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe has made a recommendation to restrict foreign funding of political parties;]] [[noting that there is already a ban on foreign financing of political parties in other countries, such as Germany and Great Britain;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to amend the Financing Act to ban foreign funding of Dutch political parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u243	This was the motion to prevent foreign powers from directly financing the political parties here in order to be able to do their story here. I'll come to my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 60% of the Dutch are opposed to party political appointments and that it may put pressure on the principles of good governance;]] [[calls on the Government, to identify or an independent committee set up in accordance with the British example, to monitor the appointment of government staff, to provide a desirable and effective solution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u244	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for his second-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u245	Mr. Chairman. I have two or three more questions to answer. Then I will come to the discussion of the motions. Mrs De Caluwe asked about the changes in the code of the BRP. That's not a redesign of the project, it's an improvement. The impact of this is currently being considered. I will report this in the next progress report in spring. The latter I had reported to the Chamber in my letter of 25 November last. That was as soon as I could. She asked about the moment I came up with the progress report BRP. That's April of next year. I realise that important events are taking place in mid-March, but with all the pressure I put on them, they will not succeed sooner. Mr Amhaouch asked about the information management action plan. That could be in the first quarter of next year. I'm getting to the motions. There are twenty of them, on which I intend to give you an opinion in all modesty. I'll start with the motion in part No. 16 by Mr Van Raak. The money for the organisation of the Ukraine referendum has been added to the Community Fund and thus become part of that Community Fund. There's no way to get that back, if that's what you wish for. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 17 by Mr Van Raak, the government is invited to instruct the CTIVD to carry out a further investigation. I'd advise against that. Several of them have already come to an end in this case. Mr Veerman's complaint has been reviewed by my predecessor. The Ombudsman has examined this issue, including the link with the dismissal, and has considered it. In 2006, my predecessor concluded that there was no reason to re-examine that case. Furthermore, the CTIVD carries out a legal investigation at the AIVD and STIVD. That is her job and she has expertise to do so. I do not want to ask her for a historical study that concerns not only the services but also the broader decision-making processes of the government, because that is not the job of the CTIVD. I understand Mr Van Raak's considerations very well, but I must advise against this motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 18 by Mr Van Raak. We've talked about Edward Snowden in the Chamber before. Moreover, political asylum is a policy responsibility of V and J, but in this case I would like to step outside the dots and give the cabinet's opinion on this. Whether he's a hero or not, I'll leave him to Mr Van Raak anyway. I have taken note of his opinion on this. However, I refer to the written reply I have given and advise against this motion. That brings me to Mrs De Caluwé's motions, starting with those on item No. 19. I have a great deal of sympathy for the idea of appealing to small groups of creative innovators, so I'd like to do that. However, the request is for a group to be set up. Then you're organizing a structure again. I wouldn't want to do that like that. This must then be financed from the ICT budget, but it is not simply free. I dissuade the motion to put together a group of creative innovators, with all the sympathy I have for innovators and for creativity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u246	The minister says he doesn't want to set up another group or organization. That is certainly not my intention. The intention is to involve innovators. I can see if I can reformulate that so that it does not lead to a group or an organizational form. It's about involving creative innovators, so I'm gonna take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u247	Again, if the objective is to involve both my ministry and the Digi Commissioner, whom I think is open to, in the process, that is to support policy. I would like to watch over new organisational or financial units. The thought behind the motion in part No. 19 does appeal to me, but we are now working on pilots whose impact we still have to map. It's just a little too soon for me to tie me to the operative part of the motion. I can't really see the consequences. Then I must be Eliasproof. Maybe the motion can be held. I could imagine. If she were to be put to the vote now, I would have to advise her, although the objective is very appealing to me, once again. Mrs De Caluwé's motion on item No. I consider 20 to support the policy. Thank you for that, too. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. In his motion, Mr Amhaouch asked for item No. 21 the government not to set up the State Commission except after a debate has taken place. Then I really get it going with the Presidents of the First and Second Chambers to a degree I wouldn't get a good mood from. I'm dissuading the motion. My intention is to stick to the deadline given to the Presidents of the Chamber and to strive for the election, preferably before the end of January, of the state committee. Once again, I am not talking about the order of the debate here in the Chamber. So you don't need my advice on that either. Then the motion to part No. 10 (34550-B) on the redistribution of the VHROSV cluster. The abbreviation stands for Housing, Spatial Planning and Urban Renewal. Let us keep in the middle for a moment whether this is an amendment or a motion. In any case, the content of my advice remains that I should not do so now, with reference to what I said about it in the first period. The motion in part No. 22 actually asks for a right to challenge in the Wmo. That's not up to me. That's VWS' colleague's wallet. I propose that the motion be raised on occasion by Mr Amhaouch or Mrs Keijzer, who has co-signed. If I were asked for my opinion in this context, I would be obliged to reject the motion, but I can imagine that it might be re-examined on another occasion. Demolition in part No. 23 relates to the report of the Cyber Security Council. That's on the premises of V and J. I've been informed that we're in the middle of a cabinet response. I will make sure that I am involved in drafting it from the part that I am responsible for myself. I can imagine that on that occasion the reaction will come and that any proposals will be discussed. If it were to be voted on now, I would have to advise against the motion. The motion in part No. I consider 24 to be policy support. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 25 by Mrs Fokke on the inventory of wishes from local democracy and for the motion in part No. 26 by Mrs Fokke on involving young people in politics, a very sympathetic goal. On Mrs Oosenbrug's motion on item No. 27 on a handout in the field of privacy, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. So is the motion on item No. 28 by Mrs Oosenbrug. The motion in part No. In my view, 29 ignores the fact that we have an anti-discrimination action plan, that we also report on this periodically and already have contacts with the various organisations in this context. I wouldn't want to put another circuit next to it. So I'm deceiving the motion. At the motion in part No. 30 In that sense, it is more delicate that I find the first part of the operative part, namely the further cooperation between European services, to support policy. The Dutch AIVD took the lead with the Counter Terrorism Group. The current director of the AIVD is also in charge of this after the Dutch Presidency. The EU INTCEN is not a European intelligence service but an analysis collaboration with the EU. We must be extremely careful that we now grant democratic control to this, because it really lies with the Dutch Parliament and, to some extent, with the CIVD, through the Intelligence and Security Services Act. So I'm gonna have to dissuade this motion anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u248	I do not know how this is consistent with what Minister Koenders said the other day about a European FBI, even an intelligence service. If that comes from one mouth, then this could be a line, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u249	I also replied in writing. The cabinet strongly supports the full sharing of all relevant information about terrorists. It has also taken the lead in the Counter Terrorism Group. It's working very well. This has the advantages as if he had one security service in this area, but if you set up one security service at European level, there are different restrictions in all those countries in different legal frameworks compared to the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's not the way the cabinet wants to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u250	I'm not arguing for that. All I'm saying is that Minister Koenders is arguing for that. In my operative part, I'm pretty clear. For me it is not yet clear why control could not be properly regulated. Eventually, the European Parliament will be able to take a good look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u251	That might be possible, but we strongly advise against it. The control of the AIVD is carried out by the Lower House and in so far as it is required by the CIVD. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 30. Then there is the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman on part No. 31. I have just said in the debate that I share the concerns. It seems reasonable to me to do it this way. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 31 to the Chamber. Mr Öztürk has tabled the motion on item No. 32 submitted. The Finance Act political parties regulates transparency. In the government's view, therefore, there is ample scope for keeping a close eye on this, as it has recently reported in writing. So we see no reason to amend that law. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 32. I would also advise against the Öztürk motion in part No. 33, because no appointments are made to the government on the basis of party political considerations. There are transparent procedures with job vacancies and selection committees. For the top nominations, these are the ABD procedures. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 33. Then I thought I had the whole package at this late hour. Thank you for your attention, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u252	Thank you for your answer. There is one more question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u253	What do you think of the ban on funding of political parties in the Netherlands by foreign powers? You say we've evaluated the law and everything. Do you think the PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u254	It's not about my opinion. If you'd like to address the minister through me, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u255	Mr President, through you: do you think the PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u256	No. "'Find the Minister."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u257	Finds the Minister, again...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u259	Nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u260	No, that's not funny. That's the order, the way we do it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u261	Yeah, okay. You can keep doing that. Does the Minister think that the PVV should still be paid by foreign powers to do a certain kind of politics here that we do not think should be in this democratic system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u262	I'm not reopening the debate. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 33 with reference to the arguments I have just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u264	I am sorry that the Minister does not want to give an answer in this way. Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u265	Thank you. The Minister replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u266	We had tabled five motions and asked one question. The Minister initially answered a question, but the question we had is the following. The Minister states that disaster and major accident damage law is the responsibility of the Minister of V and J. We find on government.nl what we are talking about, namely that the Law on disaster compensation is a responsibility of the Minister of BZK. Again, are we talking about the same thing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u267	In view of the late hour, I would like to look for another opportunity to reply in writing. I think it's a reasonable question. The next time I turn to the Chamber, I will reply. Can I leave it at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u268	I see Mr Amhaouch nodding, so I think that's how we're gonna do it. I would like to thank the Minister for his second-term reply. I would also, of course, like to thank his support for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-10.u269	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. On 8 December we shall be voting on the amendments tabled. I would like to thank colleagues and all those who are watching and listening in.
