ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten from the SP Group as the first questioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The paramedics are pulling the bell. There are overcrowded emergency rooms. When the paramedics are in the rain, you know it rains very hard elsewhere in the care. This cabinet is rapidly closing down the nursing homes. People should stay home longer and a safe place in the nursing home is history. If care is needed in the home situation, then there must be. However, that is where things go wrong, because savings are also being made on home care. Older people fall more often, break something more often and lie in the hospital than predicted. They are also longer in the hospital and in the emergency room. As a result, the emergency services are regularly full and the ambulances are unable to get to the hospital. Older people simply keep a place occupied because they can't go home safely. Being temporarily full of an emergency room isn't new. Ambulance staff knows it'll have to drive to another hospital, but if that hospital is closed and so is the next hospital, then there's a problem. Then you'll be on the escape lane waiting for someplace to go, and then there'll only be a big accident. The problems are piling up. That patient in the ambulance who's supposed to wait makes sure the ambulance isn't free for another emergency. That means an ambulance has to come from another region. This also creates a deficit in that region. Shifting ambulances is truly a masterpiece, but there is a great danger in it, because there will only be a major accident. The ambulance staff acts as the eyes and ears of the care. When they're in the rain, we know it rains very hard elsewhere. To the extent of disaster, they also see that their emergency services are closing down. Government policy is failing. The cuts are not austerity but lead to higher costs elsewhere. There's an easy solution. Is the government prepared to ensure that older people can get a safe place by ending the closure of care homes? Is it also prepared to keep sufficient ambulances and emergency services open so that people with urgent complaints can get to the hospital quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me say on behalf of Mr Schippers that we take the signal from TraumaNet AMC very seriously. Let us also point out that anyone who needs acute care must receive care within a reasonable time. Let us also note that it is desirable that we continue to believe that older people can stay home longer. That means that the whole care chain needs to be adapted to that. The message from the ERs that they can't handle the patient flow and that there are problems with ambulance transport is new for Mr Schippers and me. As you know, we regularly talk with various parties about what is going on. Mr Schippers has been in contact with various parties in the healthcare sector in response to this letter. I understand that all parties recognise that there is an increasing number of elderly people in the emergency room, but that they often have to wait hours in the hallway is not recognised. Checking with the Health Inspectorate also shows that there have been reports of this, but there has been no increase in the number of notifications in the past year. That does not alter the fact that the signals we are getting now are being taken very seriously by us. Mr Schippers immediately invited the letter writers to discuss with them and the other interested parties in the short term exactly what needs to be done and what more can be done to ensure that older people stay home longer. They must have a safe place at home or elsewhere. If you have to go to a hospital sometimes, it's necessary. Then the paramedics and the E.R. must be in tune with that. The same applies to the practical teams, the transfer nurse and so on. That's what Mr. Schippers is going to talk about. The aim of this consultation is that everyone should receive help in time. She has already said that she will be holding consultations shortly and that she would be happy to inform the Court of Justice about this. So the Chamber will soon receive a letter from Mr Schippers about the consultation it will have with the letter writers and other interested parties to ensure that care is also in order for this group of older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u4	I am, of course, pleased that consultations are going to take place, but I am surprised that the health minister is being robbed by this news. The effects on older people who have to stay at home for longer, often impossible, have already been reported more often, including by burn centres that see the elderly entering and traumatologists who find that older people are more likely to fall. Hospitals have already said that elderly people stay in the hospital for far too long because they cannot go home. So I think it's a little strange that the government didn't provide for this in the closure of nursing homes and that it's being robbed by it now. I would like to make an agreement with the Minister that no more nursing homes will be closed and that no more emergency services will be closed until we find out what's going on. Can we agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u5	I can't agree to that. I can assure you that Mr Schippers will have the above-mentioned consultations in the very near future. She sent the invitation to that meeting today to the senders. I know she is prepared to hold that consultation very quickly, so I think her letter will be with the Chamber very soon. I would also add that there are different causes and that they need to be addressed in different ways. Some things may be dealt with very quickly with the emergency services. Other things may take longer, because everything needs to be well coordinated throughout the healthcare chain, so that people can stay home longer. Again, in the short term the Chamber will receive a letter on what the Cabinet will do to ensure the best possible care for this group, but on the basis of facts and also on the basis of comparisons, not only from one region but from different regions. In this way, the different actors can learn from each other. The writers of the letter give a nice example of a hospital in Uden that has things in order. Maybe that's an example others can learn from. On the other hand, others may be able to learn from the North Holland region. The main thing is that there is always a need for customization. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u6	Ambulance personnel have been ringing the bell about emergency services that are closed. The first aid, the help for people who have had a heart attack, has also done so. They don't pull the doorbell for a wiper. The Minister says that several factors play a role. You're gonna have to hear it. There's a big problem. The ambulance is waiting on the escape lane for someone to go to the emergency room. As long as that ambulance is waiting, it can't be on its way to someone else who needs help. The cabinet says it takes the problem seriously, but it should also say that it stops closing the nursing homes, so that the elderly do not have to stay in the emergency room, but can be safely discharged from the hospital, and that it stops closing emergency posts. There are two such posts at the nomination, in Leidschendam and Roosendaal. They're just gonna die in the next few months. They're just gonna close. If the cabinet says it takes the problem seriously, it must also say: we are now abandoning this ridiculous austerity policy, which leads to problems in hospitals and problems for the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u7	What I find interesting about the letter that TraumaNet sent is that a lot of actors play a role in this and that they all have to play their part. This letter also makes recommendations for health insurers, general practitioners, municipalities, nursing homes, hospitals and emergency services, and for the Cabinet. It is now important to find a solution that is also structural as best we can, so that we can really take steps forward with older people who can stay at home for longer but have the right care there. I agree with Mrs Leijten that all this cannot be postponed and that it is an urgent matter, at least for the region where this has been raised. I would like to say once again that this signal is not generally recognised by other organisations. Nevertheless, it is urgent enough to consider what is the best solution in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u8	It is a testament to the courage of the paramedics to step outside and lay this out openly and honestly. It is good that they propose solutions to this. However, this does say that the water really is on their lips. Otherwise, you won't do this. Is the Minister therefore going to ask the hospitals in the region and the ambulance regions if they recognize these problems? After all, with only the interest groups, you can't get there. Does the Minister really want to ask individually, by ambulance region and by hospital, if they have the same problems as those in North Holland and Flevoland?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u9	What I know is that Mr Schippers has already been in contact with various parties in the healthcare sector as a result of this letter. As I have just said, they do not recognise these signals on this scale, although they do have signs that the number of elderly people in emergency services has increased. However, there are several reasons for this, such as more complex care and demographic developments. I told you, there's been an investigation at the Health Department. This signal is not recognized there either. However, I will ask Mr Schippers to indicate in the letter I have just promised on her behalf who she has been in contact with. But as the letter writers themselves say, these are very many different parties; I have just mentioned a number of them. I think the conversation will be with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u10	A second supplementary question from Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u11	There are now elderly people who end up in the hospital and then again, some sort of revolving door patients. This is because when they go home, there's no proper care. They don't get good interim care. The government has promised time and again that those places for interim care, so outside the hospital but not at home, will be there. The Minister even set up a practical team. What did this get you? Why isn't this settled yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u12	Because sometimes reality is more uncomfortable than we'd like. That is why it is so important that agreements for acute care are made precisely in the regional chains. The National Network Acute Care has already announced with the various networks that they will talk about the letter. They're gonna have to do it together. If there's a problem somewhere in that network or in that chain, it has to be solved there. So that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u13	I think it is very important to look at the whole care chain. However, I think it is still a little too abstract. As far as I am concerned, the health insurance companies must also look at the care chain. They must ensure that adequate care has been purchased and that the emergency services have sufficient capacity. The health insurance companies are also the party that looks at the district nurses and how things are arranged in the first line. Thank you for the cabinet's conversation with the care chain, but are the health insurance companies, the domes of the district nurses and the general practitioners included? After all, by putting a lot of effort on the first line, we may be able to avoid problems in the emergency and further down the chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u14	I think that is an important point. The general practitioners play a crucial role in this. By the way, you can see that it works even if more geriatrics and geriatric teams are employed. There are general practitioners who are already working on that. A hand-out has also been provided for regional cooperation arrangements between general practitioners and acute care services, to assist local aid workers in organising acute care for the elderly. These are all things that we need to look at: can certain things be better than they are now? However, I fully agree with the statement that health insurers and general practitioners also have an important role to play in this regard. I see that again in the letter from the hotline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u15	We're being fooled. 87% of the population are tired of all these emergency services being closed down. In recent years the following posts have been closed: Breda, Den Bosch, Dokkum, Eindhoven, Oosterhout, Oss,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u16	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u17	... Rotterdam, Vlaardingen, Vlissingen, Zeist, Zevenaar, Zwijndrecht. They're all closed. The closure of Antoniushove's emergency aid in Leidschendam is coming. My question to this cabinet is very specific. Tell the health insurance companies we're gonna stop doing this and we're not gonna close any more emergency rooms! The water comes over the paramedics' lips, the elderly can't get there,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u18	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u19	What is the Cabinet going to do to reverse this trend, right now, immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u20	I just answered that. In the case of emergency services, the starting point remains that patients should be in principle within 45 minutes of being notified to the emergency services. That's not gonna change either. That is the starting point for the discussions that will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u21	I am glad to hear that the Minister is already working on this issue, because it is indeed a matter of moving quickly and widely throughout the chain. I found another point I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u22	A new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u23	A new point. It is known that there are many patients who do not belong there, who could have been helped elsewhere, a day later or by their own doctor. Is the plan of action and the review of the chain also looking at this wrong problem of beds, as I call it, for convenience, at people who do not belong to the emergency services and who could have been helped elsewhere? That could be a lighting option.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-2.u24	That's a good point. I have just indicated that we need to look at how practical teams and transfer nurses can play a role in tackling this misbed problem. I was just talking about the possible involvement of geriatric teams. A good example is the IJsselland Hospital, where the geriatric team is involved for vulnerable patients aged 70 and over. This works together with other healthcare providers in the region to ensure proper coordination and coordination and to transfer from the hospital as soon as possible to any place that is best suited for that patient. So you're talking about the whole emergency care chain again. Again, the weakest link in that chain determines how good care for the elderly is. It is therefore necessary to look at this whole chain in a regional context. What is true or not a solution? We have now received a serious signal about North Holland and Flevoland. We're gonna see if this plays elsewhere. We are also going to see if we can learn from other examples, of which I have just mentioned one, in order to achieve optimal and preferably structural solutions throughout the Netherlands.
