ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend in NRC there was a disturbing report that there is a conflict of interest and friendliness at the care institution Daelzicht in Heel, in Limburg. That is totally unacceptable to the VVD Group. I therefore have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Is he prepared to launch an independent investigation, as has happened recently in April following the insistence of the VVD Group, among others, on Alliade? For the VVD Group, it is clear: money for care should really go to care for the people most vulnerable. So we're not gonna waste that on the hobbies of drivers who want to build a megalomaniac amusement park. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD Group? Is he going to take concrete action? Does the Secretary of State agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that an incident may be a coincidence, but that two incidents that are so closely related are perhaps a sign of a diseased administrative culture in certain institutions of long-term care? I think that this is a serious form against which we must take a clear stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I, too, have taken note of the message in NRC this weekend about the alleged abuses and the possibility of friendliness, personal favors and inappropriate governance. That is indeed very out of the question. Of course, it must all be investigated, but if what NRC journalists have observed is true, I think that is very serious. A care institution is primarily there to provide care to clients. The mere appearance of conflict of interest is already serious enough not to tolerate it. Three investigations will be carried out in response to the reporting. First of all, that's a forensic investigation by an external and independent agency to see what's going on. This will be transferred to the competent judicial authorities at the time of unlawful action. Secondly, this is an internal governance study, also carried out by an independent research agency from outside the region, to assess how internal decision-making was conducted. Thirdly, it is an investigation into the internal culture to see if complaints made in the organisation receive sufficient attention. The IGZ also closely monitors the situation within the care institution. Mr Potters asked whether this was an incident or not. We have discussed regularly in this Chamber how important it is to have professional supervision. It's not something you're gonna add with a brandy glass and a bump in the hand. I think that has become sufficiently clear. A number of measures have been reported in the governance letter and in the discussion we have had in the Chamber. Firstly, the strengthening of the governance code. Secondly, the accreditation by directors themselves. Soon all directors and supervisory boards will be accredited. Thirdly, ensuring that there is sufficient attention in supervision to the internal supervisory relationships which should lead to sound management. Of course, we're keeping a close eye on this. I very much agree with Mr Potters that care money should go to care as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-4.u3	I welcome this commitment and I am also pleased that there will be an investigation, but I think we need to do a little more. I think that we need to make it clear to the caretakers in the Netherlands that this is really not acceptable. I ask the Secretary of State how we can make sure that the image that this seems to be more than an incident is reversed and care managers in the Netherlands are really not going to do this anymore. I have a second question for the Secretary of State. We have talked about the instrument of personal funding here before. Is it not very important for people to be able to vote with their feet so that they can just walk away from an institution they are part of and then go to an institution that is not guilty of this kind of behavior and deals with care money carefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-4.u4	Indeed, I will understand myself with the industry organisations to see how we can make even more clear what good governance means. The interbranch organisations have already rightly taken action on this issue. I would like to stress that if we look at what the sector is doing and what positive attitudes many institutions have within the sector, the sector itself will also be incredibly upset by this kind of incident. I run into that every day. After all, these incidents show an image that is not part of the sector and will not fit in with the sector in the future. I am therefore very willing to look, together with the trade associations, at how we can bring to the attention of the good examples and what should not be clearer. I understand that on this occasion Mr Potters raises the question again as to whether the subsequent funding could be an answer. It can be a method to give people who get care, more voice and more control. I'm very much in favour of that. However, we must also bear in mind that people are in an institution at some point and that walking away with their feet is not so easy anymore. But whether you have personal funding or not, there must always be good supervision and there must be no conflict of interest or boyfriend politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-4.u5	I call Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-4.u6	I have no further questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-4.u7	I see that Mrs Keijzer still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-4.u8	We are talking about Daelzicht today, but a while ago a lot of things went wrong at Alliade and in the Slotervaart hospital. On the one hand, these things are morally reprehensible, but on the other hand, they are often not contrary to the law. I ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to put those cases next to each other to see what the similarities are and where the Zorgwide Governance Code, in which we have written down what you may and may not do, is inadequate. We have regulated it much more strictly in the corporate world than in the care world; to mention just one example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-4.u9	That is indeed sometimes the case, but sometimes it is not. It just depends on how you look at it. I am very willing to look at that again. We have, of course, also discussed this extensively with each other, also in connection with reports in other sectors. I refer, for example, to the Halsema report, which said that you need a good governance structure, a good code and good internal supervision. In the end, however, or perhaps in the beginning, it is the moral compass of the directors themselves. What are your values as a driver? Why are you a driver? Are you there for yourself or are you there for others? In the discussion on the governance code, you can see that the sector is also taking its own responsibility. After all, it is incredibly beneficial for the sector not to let a number of bad cases ruin its image. I think it's very good if we start talking about what the moral compass actually means. In the context of the tightening up of the governance code and the accreditation that is to take place, it is right to talk about the moral compass and not just about the technical skills and whether you are a good financial supervisor, whether you pay sufficient attention to the quality and whether you ensure that there is sufficient critical capacity. I very much agree with Mrs Keijzer on this point and we will therefore take the moral compass with us in the accreditation.
