ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Syrian children who fled the war in their country are being put to work in Turkey to make clothing for Western companies, for Western clothing brands. Children are exploited and work under difficult, sometimes dangerous conditions. We saw that harsh reality yesterday in a BBC broadcast about refugees making our clothes. I ask the Minister: how cynical should it be? It is terrible that this vulnerable group of Syrians are now entering modern slavery in Turkey. During my own work visit in Turkey last summer, I spoke to several Syrian and Iraqi families whose children had to work because those families had no income to pay for it. In May of this year, Human Rights Watch also reported that Syrian refugee children were being put to work massively in Turkey. At least half a million Syrian children in Turkey do not attend school, UNICEF said to me in Turkey last summer. This raises the following questions. Is the Minister prepared to address the companies mentioned in the Netherlands, such as Marks & Spencer and Zara, directly? Is the Minister prepared to encourage companies in the Dutch clothing agreement to carry out additional checks and investigations immediately with their Turkish suppliers? Can the National Contact Point also be enabled for this purpose? A company like Zara hasn't signed the clothing agreement yet. Is the Minister going to step up the pressure to get that company to sign this covenant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Voordewind for his comments and questions. Those who have followed the broadcast or the messages will be as shocked as Mr Voordewind; so am I. The situation in Turkey, as Mr Voordewind points out, is that there are 2.6 million Syrian refugees. The Netherlands has made a great effort to ensure that refugees are given work permits so that they can work in the formal sector. Dutch companies have also opened up some of their vacancies to Syrian refugees, because it is clear that what Mr Voordewind says also shows that people of course need and want to have an income so that they can take care of their children themselves, send them to school and not send them out of work. We do a few things. I recently had contact with my Turkish counterpart on this subject a few weeks ago. We also discussed this in Shanghai during the G20. There will soon be a joint economic committee between Turkey and the Netherlands. I am going to explore the possibilities of organising a round table with the big clothing brands in the margins, with my Turkish counterpart and with whom he would like to see from Turkey on his side. I am very happy to say that to Mr Voordewind. I would also like to call my Turkish colleague on this particular matter and make him the proposal I just made. I would also like to suggest to him that he and I should be able to visit the region where we have seen this kind of excrement a number of times now. I do not do this with the illusion that a visit by two ministers solves everything, but in the knowledge that things often improve faster when there are political attention and political pressure than if you do not. The Netherlands now also has a partnership with the Fair Wear Foundation. It will provide information in Turkey to Syrian refugees on labour rights. It also opened a complaint line. One can of course go there in Arabic, because the refugees speak Arabic. I am also prepared to address the companies. This could be in the context of the covenant we have, but also in the context of other forms of cooperation. As far as I am aware, the companies say that they do not know that this is happening. I think it would be good to have a conversation with them about that, in any way. Zara intends to sign the covenant. We have regular conversations with Zara. So it's work in progress, but we're gonna add a few more teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u3	It is good to hear that the Minister is taking this very seriously, even if it is just a few signals. If this is the tip of the iceberg, it gives every reason to discuss this within the Dutch textile agreement. I'm glad to hear that Zara is finally going to sign the textile agreement. At least that's good news. I come to the complaints committees and so on. Yeah, the kids can file a complaint, but if they don't have money for travel expenses to go to school, because the schools are too far away or because they're in the middle of the big cities, they just can't go to school. That is also a problem that I have discussed with UNICEF. Some work permits have indeed been issued. I believe there are now 2,000 refugees in the region of 2.7 million. I will therefore repeat my plea that employers should not apply for work permits. We understand that there is the problem. In fact, the government should issue those work permits, at least to Syrian and Iraqi refugees, so that they do not fall under ILO labour standards. Is the Minister still able to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u4	I would certainly like to explore the possibilities of promoting faster and more extensive work permits in Turkey. Mr Voordewind also outlined the situation very precisely. We are talking about 2.7 million refugees. The pressure on facilities and on the economy is therefore really high in Turkey. That does not mean that we should not do it, but I would ask you to understand that. Mr Voordewind knows how complicated it is sometimes in our country. So he can imagine how these numbers are going in Turkey. But I would like to say to Mr Voordewind that we will continue to talk about this with the Turkish authorities. I can also imagine that I'm looking for an appropriate time to report back in a letter of inquiry where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u5	Again, it is not about the granting of work permits by employers, but by the government itself, so that one can get started and at least provide for one's own maintenance. Finally, I will deal with the Turkish children themselves. We know that about half of the agricultural workers are still underage. The Minister has previously called for a lot of attention to be paid to this, including in the case of the Turkish Government; I know that. Despite this attention, however, there is still a large upward trend in cotton plantations and you name it. This concerns seasonal work, where families simply take their children with them. Is the Minister prepared to denounce this further, possibly with European colleagues, within the European Union but also within the OECD? The OECD must monitor this and is now also in the process of specifying ILO standards on clothing and textiles. This is perhaps not to call the Turkish Government a watchdog, but to help to get the inspections in order and to get the children out of the dumps of those factories and to let them go to school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u6	My impression is that the Turkish government is doing everything it can to prevent child labour. We are also working with the Turkish Government. The ILO does the same. It is also always a subject of discussion with the Turkish Government. I imagine that I will also discuss this with my colleague and, together with him, see if we can, for example, involve the OECD. We can see how the Turkish government can support itself in tackling child labour. Because that's not what people want either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u8	Finally, Mr President. I have made a report on my visit to Turkey, which I would like to offer to the Minister for Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u10	It seems that exploitation and child labour are only increasing in Turkey. That's what we hear from clothing companies. It is particularly worrying that child labour has now been found in the final link when ironing, so just before the clothing is sent to Europe. That's what a 15-year-old boy was doing. That's the last step. Clothes companies always say it's hard, it's far away and we can't see it. But they should have seen this, right? How can companies not see this? And what can the Minister do to ensure at European level that this clothing no longer ends up on our shelves? It doesn't matter where those clothes come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u11	It is clear that companies are simply responsible for this, no matter how long their chain is and at whatever point in the chain there are concerns. In recent years, companies have also become increasingly aware of this responsibility, and have engaged in collaborations to combat abuses. How this can happen and how they look at it, I don't know. I suppose they don't like it, but the question is indeed: could they have known? They should have known, I think, but could they have known? It is good to talk about that, also within the covenant. I very much agree with Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you.
