ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice, as well as all the other people present, particularly the spectators in the public gallery and elsewhere, and first of all give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Minister seems to be somewhat concerned about my speaking time. Yesterday we were here too, albeit in a different context and on another subject. I can reassure him: I don't think I get the notified 20 minutes, but that aside. However, it is a very serious issue, the regulation of prostitution and the fight against abuses in the sex sector. It is a law with a long history and a reality that is sometimes very raw. Last year, the Public Prosecutor's Office was called the alarm clock in Amsterdam. Some of the Walls would be controlled by Hungarian gangs who commit trafficking in human beings. We know that there are also abuses in the legal, controlled sector. I think that there is a very broad desire here to fight it as hard as possible, to do what we can and to put up as many barriers as possible to combat it. We also see from the number of registered victims how serious the case can be. In 2000, the year in which prostitution was legalized, 284 possible victims of trafficking were registered, at least signals of which were transmitted. That number has risen to over 1,500 in 2014. About two thirds, 70% of them, are related to prostitution. We are really talking about a very serious and serious problem. It is about freedom that people are taken away, about cases where one man controls and does evil to another, cases where physical integrity is violated. We cannot fight that hard enough. At the same time, there are many signs of human trafficking, major problems, and yet only about 120 people are convicted by the judge for trafficking in human beings. That fight can be better fought. This fight can be stepped up in order to ultimately reduce trafficking in human beings. This law, this novella, which can lead to the law regulation prostitution, can hopefully contribute to that. This proposal is part of an international development, an international context. The law is being tightened up in several countries. We have seen the European directive, which encourages countries to take action against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. France has just passed a law saying that every customer who goes to a prostitute is fined, because ultimately the customer is the source of prostitution. Because prostitution often goes hand in hand with trafficking in human beings, France has chosen that model. Germany only looks at victims' clients and has made pimping criminal. And in the Netherlands we are now opting for a permit system, for raising the minimum age and a number of other measures. In this context, it is understandable that we are taking further steps and stepping up the fight. This bill has a very long history. I told you, in 2000, the brothel ban was lifted. The hope was that this would lead to a non-trafficking sector. In the years after, however, it became apparent that this hope is sometimes an illusion. We have had the Snape case, the case in which Şaban B. and some of his colleagues had a gruesome grip on part of the prostitution and terribly exceeded themselves in abuse and controlled part of the allowed window prostitution. The victims were rotating from one city to another, so they wouldn't get involved with customers or the police, and there were horrible abuses. This led to declarations, which in the first instance little was done with. Eventually, in 2006, there was a major investigation into human trafficking in prostitution. That was called the Snape Project. In this context, the report was also published with the title Clean Appearance. The police did more research and it became clear from that that the hope which was widely cherished in 2000 was not premature with my group, I must honestly say. Making a separation between legal and illegal, between voluntary and involuntary turned out to be very difficult. Conclusions from 2008: there are many abuses, there are more barriers and better national guidance is needed. Aid workers estimate that between 50% and 90% of prostitutes might be forced to work in legal window prostitution. Again, I quote from Clean Beauty. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings came up with shocking reports. More and more figures and an increasingly clear picture emerged in which voluntarily and involuntarily ran through each other. It became clear that prostitution is vulnerable to human trafficking. This led in 2009 to the Law regulation prostitution that was dealt with in 2011. This is a solid law with a licensing system, a clearer distinction between legal and illegal, a zero option, a registration obligation for prostitution companies, a registration obligation for prostitutes and a customer obligation. A client really had to check if he wasn't dealing with an illegal prostitute. In addition, prostitution under the age of 21 was punishable. With a lot of ifs and buts and discussions that we had at the time, it was clear that this was a good law at its core. The First Chamber thought differently about this, at least on a number of elements of the law. The First Chamber was not directly convinced of the usefulness of all measures. The obligation to register expired and also the obligation to delete. The criminalisation of prostitution under the age of 21 no longer concerns the prostitute but the prostitute and the operator. The expiry of the obligation to register was certainly a bitter pill for my group. It was not so much the heart of the bill as it was the lungs of the law. It is important to keep an eye on prostitutes if they are looking for another place when, for example, the Zandpad closes in Utrecht to check whether they are not victims of trafficking in human beings. Without a registration obligation, that's difficult. The good news is that we can take a step today. Hopefully, the First Chamber will cooperate. Increasing the minimum age to 21 years, a licensing system and the zero option are major steps forward which encourages the fraction of the Christian Union. I do have doubts about the amendment concerning the character of the novella. I also ask the Minister this question. We want these steps to be taken. At the same time, the question is whether amendment would jeopardise the viability of the novella. That would be a loss. These proposals, which are now before us, should go ahead. We must look very closely at whether amendment does not lead us to the further delay. I will mention the proposal for the ban on pimping. I am very sympathetic to that, but the question is whether we should impose this novelle on it. Should the criminal law approach not be discussed at another time alongside the administrative approach now before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u3	I have a rather general question. The First Chamber is enforcing a right of amendment, which means that we have to deal with this novelle. Surely it is not possible for us to restrict our legal treatment in any way, because otherwise we cannot be sure that the Supreme Court is doing something that we like or leaves something that we like?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u4	Perhaps we can agree on what is good and what is not good. I want us to be able to safely cross the heart of the bill. At that time there was a majority in favour and hopefully there is now broad support for it. The other proposals, such as the ban on pimping, may deserve separate treatment or need further consideration. Mr Van Oosten has also tabled an amendment himself. We could discuss this separately. I shall put this question to the Minister. He must give us some advice in that regard. Then we must deal with it freely with all the freedom we have, including the freedom to amend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u5	I understand the latter, and I do. I understand from what Mr Segers said that he wants to do the same. However, it is difficult to deal with amendments at another time. A completely different legislative proposal must then come to us, otherwise we will not be able to achieve what we are aiming for in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u6	I'll explain why I said this. I've talked to a lot of local drivers, and I've talked to the police. They deal with this sector every day. They see the legal sector and voluntary prostitution, but also involuntary. They say: it would help us if the minimum age were increased and if we had a uniform licensing system. This bill has been in force since 2009. There's been so many failures and so many delays. I don't want to keep the local people who want to work waiting for us anymore. I hope that they can really work with the good part, for which hopefully there is broad support. I still have some questions for the Minister. The first concerns the visibility of the prostitute without any obligation to register. Is this now a definitive system to prevent human trafficking as much as possible? There's no involvement of the G.D.D. It disappears completely from the law. What is the role of the GGD? Does it not have a very important role to play, including in relation to the health aspect? People from care may have a different view of those who work in prostitution. We can't completely flatten that part, can we? What space do municipalities have to keep an eye on prostitutes? This is not now being unified nationwide, but perhaps local. I mentioned the example of the closure of the Sand Path. As a result, there is no work in Utrecht and the women who worked there are swarming over both the Netherlands and Belgium. Perhaps they are in contact with a human dealer or are under the spell of a human dealer. Without such an obligation to register, we have no idea. Let's take the case of the Sand Path. How can we keep an eye on the women who were sent out on the street and who had nowhere else to go but where their pimp might have driven them? I have another question about illegal prostitution and the role of the client. How is the customer prevented from maintaining the illegal circuit if we cannot address him on his responsibility? Running a prostitution company without a license is forbidden, but what happens if someone does? The municipality can shut down the company. What consequences does that have for the owner of that illegal prostitution company? I assume that at least there will be an investigation into whether forced prostitution has taken place and whether it should be dealt with under criminal law. In this context, I would like to ask one more question about the driving school, which we have talked about before. That could be corporate prostitution that, if it is not authorised, will become illegal with this bill. I'll just pass the case on to the Minister. Could he shed his light on that? He said earlier that it is not illegal, that it is not forbidden to pay in kind, so that someone with sexual acts pays for autopsies. That's how the law works now. If that becomes businesslike, will it be punishable by this law? It is a gain that the minimum age goes to 21 years, but it may be that the norm is not that 21 is the lower limit. What's being done to operators who say to someone, "Don't worry, you're not in danger?" How is the minimum age of 21 well maintained? How exactly is this ban maintained with the shift to customer and operator? Can the Minister say a little more about that? All the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. We're not gonna evaluate for another five years, it's in the law. It is important that this evaluation examines the role of the customer, at least that is what I would like to present to the Minister and also the role of those who set up an illegal prostitution company. Are they now sufficiently called upon to shoulder their responsibilities? Can the Minister promise that this will have a central role in the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u7	Mr. Chairman. The history of the bill we are discussing today in this Chamber is much longer than Mr Segers said it was mine in this Chamber. In that history, my group has not always been positive, as everyone knows. Although we have voted in favour of some of the changes that have been made after the novelle, D66 is not yet convinced of all the elements. We have always been very much in favour of regulating the sex sector, and we still are. It is everyone's right to work as a sex worker, the oldest profession in the world. However, D66 also recognises the vulnerabilities that this profession may entail. But as far as D66 is concerned, it is precisely this that proves the importance of good regulation of this sector as a legal sector. Fortunately, there is already a lot going on in the licensed industry. For example, the zero measurement of the WODC showed that abuses in the legal sector do not or hardly occur. There are also more interest groups for sex workers. We welcome the Members of this House to the public gallery this evening. This does not mean that my group is closing its eyes to the fact that trafficking in human beings is still the most widespread in the sex sector. However, the approach to trafficking in human beings requires other measures, in addition to the proper regulation of the legal sector. As far as D66 is concerned, a well-regulated legal sector contributes precisely to the fight against trafficking in human beings. After this brief introduction, I will mention five points which are important to my group in this debate. The first is the criminalisation of the client in the licensed sector. The second is the increase in the age limit to 21 years. The third is home prostitution. The fourth is the evaluation clause. The fifth point is the obligation to register in the municipalities. I also give the chairman a sixth point, namely the social position of the sex worker. I'll start with the criminalization of the client. D66 is pleased that in the novelle the criminalisation of the prostitute herself has been removed. But I repeat what I said in an earlier debate on this. My group doubts whether criminalisation of the customer will ever lead to a reduction in trafficking in human beings. In the past, that has never happened. This bill also criminalizes the client in the licensed sector. I think that's the reverse world. It is precisely the customer who seeks out the licensed sector that should be able to assume that he is dealing with a legal prostitute. As far as my group is concerned, responsibility should therefore lie entirely with the operator. Surely it shouldn't be the case that the customer still has to verify the age of the sex worker? Can the Minister explain how he sees that in practice? I tabled an amendment together with my colleague from the VVD. This is a completely illogical measure which, if it were up to us, would be deleted. I come to my second point, home prostitution. On that point, I would just like to ask for a little clarification from the Minister. You could see from the definition of a sex company in the bill that any kind of sex work comes under that definition of a sex company. Then the home prostitution would also be regarded as a sex business. I have already been indirectly assured that this is not the intention, but there is also a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty in the industry itself. The question is whether or not a homeworker is subject to a licence. In the note on the report, the Minister has already written something about whether or not to be businesslike. D66 endorses what the minister writes there, especially since permits for home prostitutes are often very limited at present when it comes to municipalities. I would like to ask this again once again here in the House of Representatives, because it will appear in the Acts. I ask the Minister to clarify whether or not the home prostitutes are covered by the definition of sex business. I would think the answer to that question would be "no." Do home prostitutes need a permit or not? I'd think the answer to that question would be "no." I'd like to hear the Minister confirm this. I come to my third point, namely the raising of the age limit. The treatment of the law on prostitution has already shown that my group has great doubts about raising the age limit for prostitution to 21 years. It is a measure which may be regarded as sympathetic, but my group also recognises the vulnerability of this group. It is precisely because this group is vulnerable that my group attaches more importance to keeping this group in sight. If you now raise that age limit to 21 years, the group under 21 will remain in illegality for three years before it can be legally exercised. By denying people between 18 and 21 years of age access to the licensed operator, they are extra susceptible to human traffickers and work out of sight of any authority. The cabinet may, against better knowledge, hope that with this law young sex workers will lay down their work massively. By young sex workers, I mean the group between 18 and 21. I very much doubt this effect. Prohibiting has never made anything disappear, I think. If we are trying to regulate the sector properly, why not settle it well for this group? I would like to hear from the Minister what he is doing to ensure that with this bill the group of sex workers between 18 and 21 years of age does not disappear into illegality. Then I come to the evaluation clause, which also has to do with that vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u8	Mr Seegers has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u9	I wonder why you call it a vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u10	For exactly the same reason you think the age should be increased to 21 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u11	Your estimate is that they will become less vulnerable if they are allowed to continue working legally and become more vulnerable if they are no longer allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u12	I trust that Mr Segers has listened to me very carefully. I expect that, at the time the age is raised to 21 years, that group between 18 and 21 years of age will go into illegality. These people won't stop, they'll go on without a permit. This makes them more vulnerable, because in the illegal sector you become much more susceptible to people who want to abuse, such as traffickers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u13	If I understand correctly, D66 is for the increase in age. This is partly due to the assessment that this is a vulnerable group. It is now only a transitional period which must run slightly longer than is currently provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u14	We have great doubts about the usefulness, necessity and justification of the increase in age. I am in favour of keeping an eye on that group, and I will go into this in more detail in.... and so to do the assessment a little earlier. I'm going on. In order to anticipate the effects of the legislative proposal, I have tabled an amendment to bring that assessment clause, which was originally included, back into this legislative proposal. In the novelle, the evaluation clause has been postponed to five years, but in view of the impact of this law on these young sex workers, my group wants to see the effects after three years. The transitional arrangements are one year, with which the weakest group, the 18-19 year olds, is not served. They cannot benefit from this and there is a risk that they will work in illegality because they will continue to work but will not be able to obtain a permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u15	I've seen the amendment. The aim of the amendment is to monitor the transition and phasing in it. The explanatory memorandum states that it will be more than a year and a half in practice. I wonder what exactly you are solving with this evaluation at an earlier date. The transition period remains the same. If your goal is to monitor that period, then you don't change it by reducing the evaluation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u16	By reducing the time limit proposed, you can keep an eye on the vulnerable group that D66 believes should not disappear from sight and should not end up in illegality. In that evaluation period, you should consider whether young sex workers are actually stopping, or whether they are going to start massively on exit programmes, or whether they are unsubscribing. You should be able to check where they end up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u17	This would call for clear monitoring, particularly during the first year and a half. I wonder what the effect of an earlier evaluation is. It is not going to change the view of what is happening in the transitional period. I can imagine that you want more monitoring in the transitional period, or more opportunities to see what happens to the group between 18 and 21 years of age that will be in the transition period. I keep wondering what exactly the advance evaluation will solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u18	I think this law will have a negative effect on the group I just outlined, the 18- and 19-year-olds. That is where the proposal to look at it earlier comes from. It's as simple as that. I shall resume my speech. If you did that evaluation earlier, you might be able to come back to your steps if you had to find that this group has disappeared from sight. That seems to me to be a very undesirable effect. This underlines the importance of a rapid evaluation. Then I come to the registration of the prostitutes, also mentioned by Mr Segers. This obligation to register has been the subject of extensive debate in both chambers in the past. Important concerns for the protection of personal data have been raised. My group was therefore pleased that this obligation to register was removed from the novelle. However, it is now clear that more and more municipalities which are subject to the contested registration obligation are re-entering an APV at local level. My group believes that this is a worrying development, because we believe that the registration of prostitutes is contrary to the Personal Data Protection Act. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what his position is on this development at municipal level. Does he have any idea how municipalities can be encouraged not to introduce this obligation of registration after both chambers have opposed it and the cabinet has complied with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u19	I wonder if D66 knows why these municipalities are so attached to that registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u20	I think I know that when I read Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment. For D66 it is important for the municipalities to do something that both Chambers have already rejected, in which the cabinet has also resigned and which is a grave violation of the protection of personal data, of privacy of sex workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u21	We have given the layer of municipalities so much responsibility because they can see clearly where the opportunities and threats lie and, above all, the vulnerabilities of people. If the municipalities are of the opinion that you will have to register in order to keep an eye on this vulnerable group, why should we put a strobe in the way of the municipalities? In the end, the fact that the obligation did not reach a parliamentary majority is a democratic one, but we should not want to turn our backs on municipalities because they did want to take on their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u22	It's not a question of poking the municipalities, it's about the privacy of sex workers. I see no reason to make an exception to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u24	I come to my final point. Unfortunately, the law regulation prostitution remains a missed opportunity to bet on strengthening the social position of the sex worker. This position still needs to be improved. There is a social stigma to this profession. Research carried out by Regioplan in 2014 has already shown that sex workers from the legal sector are still experiencing problems in dealing with agencies such as the Social Service, the Tax Administration and banks. It also appeared that this situation has not actually changed since 2006. There is little improvement, no improvement. For a strong social position, it is important that sex workers have easy access to such bodies so that they can actually exercise their profession. Together with GroenLinks, D66 has already tabled a motion on this subject, in which we call on the government to promote the improvement of the social position of sex workers. That motion was passed. I would like to hear an advance from the Minister on how he intends to implement this motion. Does the Minister intend to raise this issue with these bodies? Finally. The law on prostitution has a long parliamentary history and has unfortunately never been the progressive proposal that my group would have liked. According to D66, a well regulated legal sex industry is essential in the fight against trafficking in human beings. Although the novelle contains a lot of improvements, I would like to draw attention to a few more tightenings in order to regulate the sex sector properly and thus take another step towards making this sector a fully-fledged sector, just like all the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u25	Mr. Chairman. A novelle is the word already fallen. We are discussing it today. That is not a short story in prose, but it has a very different meaning when we talk about it here in this Chamber: then something went wrong in the First Chamber. The treatment of a novelle involves a certain unease, because it must remain a high exception. After all, the constitutional relations can quickly become impure if it becomes too common, too easy for the Supreme Court to say: well, we can live with it, but then there still has to be a law that changes this and that. You have already noticed that in this Chamber the roles were reversed: we have to be careful with amendments and can actually only say yes or no to the way the First Chamber wants it. That is exactly how normal the relations between the First and Second Chambers are. There's a story there. We all understand that, at least the SGP Group believes it is important that the bill now before the First Chamber can reach the final stage. If that is what we need to do, we say: it is a pity that it is, but we do think it is important that these abuses are better combated. You're gonna need legislation for that. At the same time, I have a bit of a problem with the fact that everything that is now before me is actually a retrograde step in the eyes of the SGP. I am sorry that so many points have to be handed in. I am also sorry that there has been so much loss of time. We all say that it is important and urgent that the abuses are combated and that there will be more instruments, but in the meantime we have been many years ahead; colleagues have also pointed it out. Perhaps the time lag in this sense can be for us to see that, in addition to decline in the eyes of the SGP, there can also be small points in this legislative proposal that are not difficult for the First Chamber, but can make this novel a little more beautiful. That would help us to be more enthusiastic about this novel. I have found a good suggestion for that, I believe, and I have tabled an amendment on that. This concerns the issue of exit programmes. I don't think that's sensitive in the Upper House. A number of years ago, when it was discussed in this Chamber, this point did not make it. That was more of an opportunity: is it necessary to explicitly provide in the law that municipalities also conduct policies on exit programmes? The thought was that things would work out on their own. A few years later, we know it's disappointing. In my opinion, everyone agrees that it is important for municipalities to offer exit programmes. The Minister writes to the First Chamber: "Stopping the work in prostitution is often difficult. Because of the stigma of the profession, there is a gap in the CV of the person concerned which makes it difficult to find work outside the sector. Often it is also a very difficult task mentally to take the step to another profession. It is therefore important for this target group that there are special programmes to permanently break off work as a prostitute." We wholeheartedly support the Minister's analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u26	Mr Van der Staaij already mentioned it in his contribution: municipalities leave after organising this on their own. How would it be that municipalities don't do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u27	In practice, we hear that it is a matter of ignorance with the target group and with exactly those points and that it is very difficult in practice to provide additional guidance. This responsibility is, of course, still relatively new for the municipalities. It has been a complicated process following the lifting of the brothel ban. This is a part of which many municipalities do not yet have on the retina that it is important. They don't know how to handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u28	If we give it a place in the law now, it is really an obligation that we impose as a state government on municipalities. This may be a little complicated in the context of decentralisation. Perhaps we should consider whether something can be done in the sphere of information, whether through the VNG or not, so that municipalities are motivated to organise it, encouraged by their own municipal councils. The municipal councils must call their lectures to this end. Then perhaps it will be worn more than when we impose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u29	I understand the reasoning, but frankly that was precisely the reason why the VVD did not feel for this amendment five years ago. Then the government said she would see if municipalities could be encouraged with some information. I also got a report and thought: if it goes this way, it's fine and I don't have to come back to it. But according to the report Prostitution in the Netherlands in 2014, the zero measurement shows that in only 11% of the municipalities attention is paid to getting out. According to Prostitution in Dutch municipalities 2014, it would be only 6%. At the same time, research shows that a lot of prostitutes say they sometimes think about getting out, but almost half of them don't know where to go. Necessary entry into municipal policy freedom is always very sensitive. You shouldn't say, "You have to do it sister and stuff." If you are actually just saying that you have to form a vision on all kinds of points and that you have to take this point and make sure that you have a policy on that too, then I think this can be a nice addition. I am also grateful for the fact that, in the last period of the programmes with the support of the Empire, the motion by myself and Mr Segers has been allocated EUR 12 million for this theme and that these programmes have been offered further. There is, however, a gap in municipal policy. I also hear that these programmes do not go on forever. It is therefore really important for the municipalities to take up this role actively. I think I have explained the amendment sufficiently. I have abandoned the substance of the amendments. In fact, there was an important point that I raised in relation to Mr Segers's bill, Mr Kooiman, Mr Volp, namely the issue of minors. Visiting prostitutes is in principle permitted in the Netherlands from the age of 16. Research shows that men visiting prostitutes were even younger than 16 years when they first visited a brothel. About 35% were between 16 and 20 years old, according to a 2010 report. It would be good to look at that age and increase it, following other legislative proposals on forced marriages, when you are allowed to marry, buy alcohol and tobacco, and do certain dangerous work. I said at the time that this issue might fit better with this bill. I did not table the amendment because I thought we would overburden this bill. Since the age debate is very sensitive, it would now be too difficult to table an amendment on it. I would like to hear a substantive response from the Minister on this subject. Does he think it is a good idea to investigate further whether you should also look at the age limit on that side? The CDA has tabled an amendment on the pimp ban. We discussed this in the general consultation. We have indicated that we are very sympathetic to this. At the same time, I believe that this also belongs to the category of controversial proposals. We will support the amendment if it is maintained. Should this legislative proposal fail or are not supported by others for reasons of feasibility, we may be able to table another legislative initiative proposal. I'm gonna say that to the CDA group. Earlier this week, we discussed the advertising of webcam sex in Question Time. This issue is also raised when answering questions about this legislative proposal. It is about the possibilities of setting rules for billboards and posters. What exactly is the legal basis for such restrictions on advertising? How far do they go? Will the Minister clarify this so that municipalities know how to implement this freedom? I note that there is a great deal of uncertainty about this in practice. Municipalities are given an important responsibility and are allowed to set rules, but what exactly is the legal basis and how far can it go? Speaking of municipal policy freedom, I noticed that Article 3, which allows municipalities to lay down more detailed rules, is removed from the legislative proposal that is still in the Upper House. The Minister says that this can simply be done on the basis of the general competence of municipal authorities and that it is therefore not necessary to explicitly allow municipalities to lay down detailed rules. This was dealt with in an amendment tabled by Mr Rouvoet and Mr Van Toorenburg, which is actually being reversed. We would like to hear once again that the deletion of this provision does not mean any restriction on municipal policy freedom. Since it was first incorporated into the law and would now disappear, the question is how it will be explained later. Can municipalities take every opportunity to develop their own policies as long as this does not conflict with the rules of the bill? Can this also be explicitly about so-called home workers' policies? That is precisely what the amendment adopted by this Chamber with regard to Article 3 was intended for. I would still prefer to mention that municipal space in concrete terms in the legislative proposal in accordance with the earlier amendment. As far as I am concerned, that is still preferable. Finally, a point concerning the prosecution of customers. The Minister states that the Public Prosecutor's Office will pursue a prudent prosecution policy on the punishment of clients of prostitutes between 18 and 21 years of age. In material terms, they can assume that they will not be prosecuted when it comes to the authorised sector. How serious is this criminalisation if this kind of legislation on prosecution policy is issued? Can the customers themselves be effectively addressed to their behavior? Those were the comments I wanted to make. I have not been able to comment on the issue of prostitution and its history in any broad sense, because I have been able to elaborate on this in dealing with the lifting of the ban on brotheling, in dealing with the legislative proposal on which this is the novelle, and recently in general consultation. However, if there are any further questions about this, I am always happy to go into them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u30	We'll do that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u31	Mr. Chairman. This is an adaptation of the bill on the regulation of prostitution and the fight against abuses in the sex sector. The original bill envisaged, among other things, the introduction of a registration obligation for prostitutes and the criminalisation of an illegal offer of prostitution. In the First Chamber, GroenLinks managed to split up the bill, which, while maintaining the introduction of the licensing obligation, waived the obligation to register for sex workers and the obligation to change customers. The novelle introduces the minimum age of 21 for sex workers. Anyone who has sex as a customer with sex workers under the age of 21 risks up to one year in prison. Let us say first of all that the novelle in the eyes of GroenLinks is an improvement on the original bill. It's better half-way than completely lost, let's just say. GroenLinks continues to support in principle the objectives of the legislative proposal: to harmonise the licensing system, to improve the position of sex workers and to combat abuses. But as always, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. GroenLinks wants to improve the control of the sex sector, but criminalisation does not help. Sex workers must feel the freedom, under all circumstances, to report abuses and seek help if necessary. Penalty will stand in the way of that. The increase in the age at which boys and girls step into life is sensitive to my group. We just heard the spokesman for D66 about that too. On the one hand, it is hard to see why you have complete self-determination at the age of 18, except for self-determination to become a sex worker. On the other hand, I can imagine that 21-year-olds are much more resilient than 18-year-olds. Also confusion about the age of underage and adulthood of sex workers is less imaginable in a 21-year-old. For us, it is important to understand the risk of sex workers going underground from 18 to 21 years of age, making them unreachable for help and protection if they are needed. If the law is introduced now, the income of a 19-year-old legal sex worker is suddenly gone. How does the Minister view this? I see the Minister shaking no, so I'm getting a reassuring answer to that, I see. There are a number of looming errors in this novelle. The definition of "sex business" raises questions for my group. What does that mean for the self-employed homeworker? Does he, too, have to meet the strict requirements of corporate sex work? Municipalities are also given considerable freedom to limit the number of permits. This is at the expense of the opportunities for home workers, and as a result of this it is becoming illegal. That displacement is a problem anyway. Since the lifting of the brothel ban, the number of brothels has decreased by 1,000. Many bona fide entrepreneurs feel the illegality is bullied. Window brothels are closed in almost all major cities, leaving fewer and fewer authorised workplaces. This bill should, if it is up to GroenLinks, at least be flanked by a significant improvement in the position of sex workers. Municipalities should give sex workers a fair chance of licensing. In addition, accessible access to assistance, health care and police is of great importance. Finally, it remains a point that sex workers do not yet know enough about their rights. Business service providers such as banks, landlords and insurers still do not always accept sex workers as a serious customer or business partner. There are even municipalities that want to register sex workers on their own within the municipal boundaries. That's gotta stop. Ultimately, it must be our goal to enable sex workers to shape their work as they see fit. Like everyone else, sex workers want to be able to work and live safely and healthily. Self-direction is indispensable. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he thinks he can support this. Earlier, I tabled a motion for a resolution on the Segers Initiative Act. I would like the Minister to clarify how the social position and legal status of sex workers will be further strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u32	Mr. Chairman. Finally, we are talking about the law which should ultimately be an instrument for dealing with abuses in the prostitution sector. Unfortunately, it's been a long time. In part, politics itself is responsible for this, because the law did not come through the First Chamber in the end, but I am also sorry to note that the government has also left behind for quite a long time. We've run out of time. That's too bad. At the same time, there is a bright spot in this respect because we see that many municipalities themselves have taken responsibility for actually taking some steps. The municipalities have certainly not been idle to see what they themselves could improve. Think of the age limit. We hear that Amsterdam, Utrecht, Leeuwarden and Rotterdam have already raised the age limit. A certain obligation to register has already been introduced in Groningen and Utrecht. We would like to hear from the Minister how he assesses all this and his views on the measures already taken in the municipalities. One example is the obligation to register, which we have already discussed with the D66 spokesperson. A number of municipalities are already implementing them. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. On the one hand, we have taken it out of the law, but on the other hand, as the Minister has indicated, the idea has been that municipalities might act together to do something about it. We now see that municipalities do it very differently. What is the role of the Minister to see if this can be improved? Like the SGP, the CDA has a lot of trouble with the fact that registration and the obligation to change are out, but it is a fact. The Minister rightly points to alternatives, such as moments at the Chamber of Commerce or checks by various aid workers at the workplaces. The government also indicates that partners continue to use contact moments to transfer the information, to provide assistance and to identify abuses. But then, of course, good information exchange is very important. According to the Minister, such an integrated approach is already available in many municipalities and in partnerships between municipalities. The note following the report states that the minister advises municipalities where this is not yet the case. I'm curious about the state of play. How does the minister facilitate the municipalities to learn from each other? We have understood from the zero measurement that the municipalities have the idea that in 75% of the permitted situations everyone abides by the rules. That means that this is not the case in a quarter of cases. How are we going to ensure that municipalities eventually reach 100%, that it goes according to the rules, that it goes neatly, in everyone's interest? I would like to comment on the powers of municipalities. Many properties have service as their destination. That sometimes makes it difficult to ward off bad companies. Since last year, municipalities have been able to use legislation to temporarily take over a property in the event of long-term nuisance or crime. I'm curious about the pilot in Rotterdam. Can the Minister tell us anything about that? Have other cities done anything similar? How could we ensure that other municipalities learn from this? Another point, which has already been raised, is home prostitution. The Minister has clearly stated that the licence requirement is limited to companies. We have also discussed this in previous debates. According to the Minister, there is a business activity if an address is advertised in such a way that it leads to passers-by, there are advertisements, the property is visible or several prostitutes are employed at the same address. At the same time, we must note that home prostitution remains a grey area. The Minister will allow it if it is not visible from the outside and does not cause any inconvenience, so we draw up the note on the basis of the report. In this way, a home prostitute may remain completely out of sight of, for example, the municipality, the police or the supervisory authorities. Is this desirable in order to prevent abuses in these areas? They're easy to exploit in a sex agency without a license that you won't find out about. In what way is one also trying to keep some insight into home prostitution? What possibilities does the law offer for this? Article 28 is strictly limited to action by the police. The invading, which makes you completely uncomfortable, can only happen if there is corporate prostitution. The question is whether this is always sufficiently clear and whether the law gives us sufficient control. On a few points, I thought I would have to come up with an amendment. I am well aware that this makes this proposal more difficult. At the same time, I also see what the municipalities are already doing. I would nevertheless like to try to make a substantial number of improvements. I suggested two. The first is to do something about the privacy restriction, which means that you cannot act against abuses. We have often seen it in youth care, as Nine Kooiman knows like no other, that privacy is protected and that there is nothing you can do for vulnerable people. It'll almost be an excuse trick. I've been looking at what's going on in Amsterdam. In Amsterdam, they tried to lay down the responsibility of operators. They're trying to make intake calls referring to help for prostitutes. Operators have a key role to play in this. They must ensure that sex workers are sufficiently self-reliant to prevent the influx of vulnerable people into the prostitution sector. I think that's what we all want. To shape this, there is an intake interview with prostitutes and if there is any doubt, a referral can be made to an advisory team. The municipality of Amsterdam has given this a lot of thought, because it has experience with it, let us not forget that. It is the attraction of prostitution in the Netherlands. If you went abroad, you'd think of the world. That's what they thought about, and that's how they set it up. Disappointingly, because of the privacy legislation, Amsterdam can no longer do what it wants to do, namely get a look at the prostitutes. The method has become significantly less effective. I don't think we should want that. We want to be able to pass on if something's going on, don't we? I am well aware that it is a far-reaching solution, but making an exception in privacy law is a solution. We have tried to do this very narrowly by stating that the privacy legislation does not apply to the implementation of a municipal regulation or a municipal policy in so far as it concerns the assessment of the self-reliance of prostitutes and a referral to the assistance. We have tried with a very focused scope to ensure that there can be an exchange in the interests of vulnerable people. I think that's important. That is why we have tabled an amendment. We can, of course, turn that into a motion to find out whether or not it is possible to apply a little more pressure to work with the Ministry and the municipality and see if it can be done in another way, for example by means of an exemption. I don't care how. I am concerned that we should be able to see these abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u33	Don't voluntary sex workers have the right to privacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u34	Yes, and that's why this shouldn't be on a poster at the Albert Heijn. I've just seen it too many times. We often want to protect people who are very vulnerable. Let us not forget that there is much to protect in this sector. In all these years I've been working at the Justice Department, I've seen too much of the self-defense of the girls from the Keileweg. I got those girls on my retina. I think it is important to find out what difference we can make for these vulnerable people. You rightly place the responsibility with the operators, but in doubt you want to be able to refer people to an advisory team so that we can consider whether something really needs to be done. Then you stand in the air with your hands in the air, because you can't do anything. I think you should always consider it. I don't think privacy is comprehensive. We also have a passport. There are moments in the Netherlands in which privacy is intervened. The CDA thinks this could be a moment when you do. We think it is in the interests of the vulnerable prostitutes, but you can think differently. I know D66 looks at that differently. I do think people have a right to privacy. So I think you should do this very little, but I also think that this instrument can be helpful. I understand very well that there are hesitations. That is why I say that we can solve it in a different way. I simply notice that there is a bit of a head-to-head there in Amsterdam. Let me be clear, but the ministry itself writes in its letter to the mayor of Amsterdam: there has been a number of official contacts, but there has never actually been a formal response; it has taken too long; I regret it. Actually, they've been hanging out a little bit. Maybe we should make sure something happens sometime. Hence an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u35	I was just having second thoughts. Is this about the contact between the officials? Is that what the CDA is worried about, that it is taking too long and that contact with Amsterdam is not so good? Someone's privacy is very important. The only argument I have heard so far is that in that group of sex workers there are people who are vulnerable. Is that the argument to consider privacy less important in this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u36	No; I think I need to put some more words into this. In Amsterdam they tried to build a barrier model. Mrs. Van Tongeren knows that. There have been attempts to raise all kinds of barriers to prevent abuses. One part of this is that the operator must ensure that the person who works there, who does it independently, is self-reliant, knows what he is doing and does it of his own accord. These are all the conditions that we have discussed in detail. If an operator is in doubt, we, and Amsterdam, think it is important that it can be tested and that we can get a look at those people. That is the only thing Amsterdam asked for, but it is intrusive. Then they ran into the wall of privacy. So we can no longer look at whether self-reliance is really at issue. We have had serious discussions with Amsterdam about this. We've been looking into how this could be different. We finally saw it just didn't come off the ground. If this is what Amsterdam is saying, I think the Chamber should say: this is just a way. And if that's gonna freak the room out, we're not gonna do it. I'm fine with that, if only something happens once. Amsterdam wants to take care of it. Amsterdam wants to get that vulnerability out. I think we all said in the first period that we think that barrier model is very clever. But, yeah, we broke that ourselves. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u37	I'm trying to make it something more principled than: Amsterdam has tried something with a nice approach to helping vulnerable people; it didn't succeed, and that's why we're removing privacy. If you go through that principle, you could also say that people with low IQ are a vulnerable group. Should we also lift their privacy, because this is how we can help them better? Very old, single women are also a vulnerable group. Do we even have to lift their privacy, because there are probably people between them who are in desperate need of help? I'm more looking for an answer to that principle: can you remove someone's privacy because you think that some of the people in their group are vulnerable? I believe the CDA's answer is yes, although I haven't heard it yet. I only heard a few practical things about Amsterdam, letters and experimental models; and that they don't work, and that's why we're removing privacy for that whole group. You don't just take them up for vulnerable people in Amsterdam who would need help through the barrier model.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u38	There are already exceptions to our privacy laws. If Mrs Van Tongeren thinks that these exceptions should not be there, let her come up with an initiative law to remove Article 2 from the Personal Data Protection Act. No, that's not silly. I'm serious. Indeed, we already have a number of exceptions, on the basis of which we believe that the privacy legislation, as we have built it up as a whole, should not apply to those parts. We have been very critical of this. We wanted to see how small you should make those exceptions. That is why we have made this very specific. As far as the assessment of the self-reliance of prostitutes is concerned, this is, for example, for the implementation of municipal regulations or municipal policies, and for referral to the assistance. So we have made a very small hole of it. And yes, that is indeed a choice; you do not have to make it. However, I would like to make that choice. I know what is going on in this sector. I've seen those girls on the Keileweg too many times. I don't want them to be destroyed in our system behind some sort of wall of privacy. That's what I want. That's all I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u39	I gotta tell you, I got a problem with this. I agree with D66 and GroenLinks that this is not about children. When it comes to privacy, they are another case. We are now talking about adult women, and sometimes men, who simply want to work. A disguised obligation to register, because that is how this feels, is such an increase in this law that I think we will be able to get it back from the First Chamber. Isn't that what Mrs. Van Toorenburg wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u40	No, but let's look at what Amsterdam is trying to do now. Amsterdam considers this really necessary, but it does not succeed. Do we then have a law which we can say hallelujah, but which does not solve the problems of the city that has the most to deal with this issue? Then I guess we're working on something that barely makes a contribution. Then maybe the city could do just as well without us. So I would like to look at where we can make a little difference to answer the questions of the municipalities that deal with them. That is why I made a small mouse hole, which might allow Amsterdam to exercise control. Maybe I should explain again what we're doing here. It is an operator who really doubts whether a person has been able to make that assessment himself and whether it is sufficiently self-reliant. He wants to go to the advisory team because he wonders: help, is this wise? So that doubt is already there. But you can't do that right now. I don't think that's possible. I would like you sometimes to be able to take another step in this vulnerable sector, in the interests of those who work in it. I realize very well that this is a difficult issue. If this proposal is not accepted, so be it. But I think this is my duty, also to be able to look at myself in the mirror. Every once in a while, I still have my retina where those girls from the Keileweg came into our house. Then I think, "Well, I've tried something again." It didn't work out, but I'm not just gonna swing aside and think, "I'm just not gonna try."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u41	We are all looking for ways of dealing with trafficking in human beings, but when it comes to sex workers who have chosen to do so, I sometimes find it difficult for us to burden them unnecessarily with rules from the Chamber. You could also think of the contact moment that actually was there. I regret that this has been removed from the law. You can then approach sex workers more to remind them of their rights and of assistance. Then you'll have that contact, too. Why not ask the Minister instead of making the law more stringent so that it may not make it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u42	If someone as an adult has simply chosen to practice this profession, I don't think an operator is going to doubt whether to go to the advisory team. These are cases where even the operator thinks: I do not think it is right. That's what this is for. It makes things worse, that's true, but it does with this very vulnerable target group in mind. I would very much like to give you the correspondence that the mayor has with the officials and with people who have asked for various things about it. Maybe that convinces, but it's an attempt to see if we can make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u43	In the case of child care, too, we have sometimes deliberately introduced these barriers, except in the case of serious child abuse. However, these are adults, women who have generally volunteered for their jobs. I think there are other ways of solving this problem. Why doesn't Mrs Van Toorenburg look at that and in this way override the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u44	What I am doing is giving operators a test of whether someone has actually chosen this profession voluntarily and has been able to do so with an adult consideration. If the operator himself thinks "I don't think so," then I want him to be able to forward. It's not about the women who want to do this on purpose. That's not up to me. I'm going to ask you, how do I prevent vulnerability?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u45	Mrs Van Toorenburg seems to assume that these women would no longer be able to decide anything. Is it not also possible for an operator, if he has doubts, to say: you can go to the advisory committee? He doesn't send in the personal data of the person concerned, but he says: you can go there, because I think you need to think again, I doubt your decision. Then he leaves the choice with this self-employed adult person. Then there's an alternative to possibly helping this person, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u46	That's very cleverly noted. That is exactly what Amsterdam has done. There we have thought: let us see if it is not self-evident and if someone can be forwarded. Let us try for a while, because we have to wait endlessly for the ministry, and nothing happens. That's what Amsterdam did and nothing happened. This step must be taken first: offer it, make it easy to reach and say "you can go there." Amsterdam has done so, as explained to us. But it didn't work, and then I think maybe we should try something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u47	It didn't work, but who's gonna tell us this is because they didn't dare? Maybe these people just didn't want to. I did not hear you explain that causal link here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u48	I think that we are doing Amsterdam and the club that started to do this wrong if we think that they have thrown their hands into the air too quickly. They took a serious look at it. They have tried everything to keep that barrier model up and to see if they could get people on the advisory team. Eventually, if they really thought "this is vulnerable" and got people into the relief, they saw that there were other thresholds. I think that we are responsible for the fact that, if we can prevent such a thing from happening, perhaps we should try to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u49	I had the opportunity to take the amendment very well because I saw a lot of questioners before me. I would like to zoom in on the very last paragraph of the amendment, which refers to the Personal Data Authority. What I am not getting out of it is whether the Personal Data Authority can already grant an exemption for what Mrs Van Toorenburg is actually advocating. Maybe she can explain that. If that's the case, why don't we wait for it instead of anchoring something in a law, when it's actually possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u50	That could be possible, and that's why I put it in there. Per motion, we can try to make sure it happens. I already have the motion in draft if this has no support. But I'd rather do it this way, because then we'll have it clearly arranged and I won't be dependent on anyone who might find anything about it anymore. I have also seen the Dutch Data Protection Authority, which was then called different, in a role in youth care, so that we could no longer help children who really needed help screaming because of privacy considerations. I'd like to take care of it all. It is a way, and that is why I gave this as a hand in the explanatory statement of the amendment. If that makes it better and makes it to the finish line, I'm totally happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u51	I am not talking about what is more appealing, but about whether there is a need to change the law because Mrs Van Toorenburg does not see anything in terms of legal possibilities. That's why I'm asking my questions. I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u52	Yeah, it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u53	... that it is possible and that as such there is a legal possibility, just for what Mrs Van Toorenburg advocates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u54	The Authority may grant an exemption in a specific situation. That's what she could be talking about. If that pleases the Chamber better, maybe we should. In any case, we have had a good debate on how to identify the vulnerability in order to provide a solution. I got another one, and that's the pimp ban. There's a law in front of it now, and there's something I want to do with this. I have explained it so extensively in the amendment and in its explanatory statement that I do not have to talk about it for an endless period of time. However, I would like to say that, of course, we are well aware that we will soon have a licensing system in which we may have what we have agreed with each other, but we should not close our eyes to the fact that there will always be an area that is not authorised and perhaps illegal if it is not home prostitution. There too, people will always play a role that we do not want to play. I am thinking here of the loverboys and other flies around the syrup. We need to find a way to ban it. That is why we have tabled the amendment on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u55	Mr. Chairman. It has indeed been three years since the Law on Prostitution was killed in the Upper House. Many have already said it. To be precise, it was about the registration obligation. A novelle had to come, and it's in front of us today. The First Chamber was clear: it had to be quick. There were also some good things in this law and they are just in a hurry, according to the Upper House. My first question to this Minister is therefore how it can be that we are only now, three years later, discussing it here. As is well known, the SP had serious doubts about the obligation to register. Prostitutes had to register in the old law in a national register. This registration was then notified to the GGD and there was a conversation between the municipality and the sex worker. But the downside was that everyone would be registered as a sex worker. The SP considers it important to improve the social position of sex workers. The doubts that the House of Representatives had could not be removed by the Minister in the First Chamber either. Concerns about privacy remained, as well as concerns that it would make sex workers disappear into illegality. The obligation to register was lost in the First Chamber and thus also the related obligation to demand the customer. The SP welcomes this novelle, but with the lost registration obligation the contact moment between the sex worker and the municipality has also disappeared. I have a number of questions about that. The contact moment was specially built in to inform the sex worker about her or his rights and risks, but also for help. We had doubts as to whether you should specifically apply this to municipalities. For example, it could have been done with the GGD, who has more expertise in this. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and the Public Prosecutor's Office are also in favour of maintaining the contact moment. They say, "Keep that right." I would like to hear a reply from the Minister, because he says that this is precisely a matter for the operator. I wonder how the Minister sees it. Indeed, that operator has a commercial interest. This can work conflictingly if the sex worker needs help, for example in case of problems with the operator. How does the Minister see that? In addition, the Minister believes that the municipalities should monitor this, but how exactly should they? Can the Minister explain that? The Minister also does not want to introduce a national complaint counter for the sex workers. Then how does the Minister intend to solve the problems, problems and problems of the sex workers? I'd like a response. There has also been talk of the municipal registration obligation. This lapses, but municipalities can explore the possibilities of introducing their own registration within the privacy legislation. This can be done in Utrecht and Nijmegen, for example. As has been said, the SP has a lot of concerns about the obligation to register, and therefore also about a municipal registration obligation. Can the Minister state what the municipal experiences are? What exactly is the advantage? Not that we will find these women again in Utrecht, for example. That's where we had the Sand Path. Unfortunately, that was closed too early, without any possibility for sex workers to find a new workplace. These women were registered, and yet all or almost all went into illegality. At least where they are, we don't know. So you can register them and still not find them. I see no added value of a municipal registration obligation. I'd like a response from the Minister. The age limit is increased in this proposal to 21 years. In the previous bill, a sex worker could only register in the national register if he or she was 21 years of age or older, thereby securing the age check. However, now that the obligation to register has expired, the control by the municipality also lapses. What surprises me is that the Minister has now chosen to lay down controls with the customer. He leaves it to the sex workers themselves to find a solution to this in practice. I find that really too bizarre for words. We have an amendment from the VVD before us on this point, which has now been co-signed by D66. I find it difficult because I do not have any amendments of my own. I thought: this is a novelle, and we would like it to be adopted in the First Chamber. So I will not table an amendment myself, but I find it very difficult, because I think this is a good amendment. Why didn't the Minister come up with that directly and possibly also discuss it with the Upper House? I don't really understand why this isn't taken care of right away. Can the Minister respond to that? Women between the ages of 18 and 21 still work in the prostitution sector. There's definitely something to say for that increase in age, but I don't understand why they didn't choose transitional rights. If this law is passed, women must be forced out of prostitution. I am afraid that many will disappear from the group of 18 to 21 year olds in illegality. Mandatory exit doesn't always work for those women. I fear that they will then disappear from sight and end up in illegality. Why not work with transitional rights? Then I would like to draw special attention to the opt-in. Prostitution is legal, but the construction for a sex worker to get to work is quite unfair and unjust. That's how it works. 37% of sex workers work with opt-in. That's a really crazy system. It's the worst of both worlds. You have the disadvantages of an employee. You have to pay taxes. Employees sometimes demand a lot and the rents are sometimes high. However, you also have the disadvantages of azzp'er. You're not insured for illness and unemployment. For example, 58% opts for independence. If you see the drawbacks of opt-in, I imagine you're choosing to become azzp'er. Not everyone wants that, however, or has been put in the cradle for independence. I heard from an operator in The Hague who would like to remain anonymous that she is now working through an employee structure. Wage insurance means disability insurance, maternity leave, the labour inspection that comes along and a normal paycheck. As I understand it, agreements have been made with the IRS and there is good contact with the police. Is the Minister familiar with this concept? Is this something that needs to be stimulated? It's forbidden to operate a sex company without a license. The SP supports this because it believes that a better understanding of the sector and social position of prostitutes is needed. The point of concern is how to prevent permit hopping if each municipality can set additional rules. Can the Minister report that? There is now also a zero option whereby municipalities can regulate that no permit is issued and therefore no prostitution takes place. I can imagine. It's up to the city. I am only afraid that this may be a reason for municipalities not to develop policies because there is no prostitution after all. In the light of illegality, it is important to take a good look at it and develop policies on it. How does the Minister intend to deal with that? In the law, thezzp'er is a very crazy construction. You're a license holder and azzp'er at the same time. What possibilities do sex workers have to work from home, for example? How is this handled? My concern is the monitoring and protection of the sex worker. How do you prevent the sex worker from running into a wall of bureaucracy? I'd like a response. Those who wish to register with the Chamber of Commerce must have a business address. If you don't have a business address, you have to enter your private address. At the Chamber of Commerce, all addresses are public; you can see them. It is precisely for sex workers that it is important not to be publicly registered as such. How does the Minister intend to guarantee privacy in this case? I hear such noises from sex workers about the contacts with the police. When a sex worker is financially exploited by, for example, a pimp, she can report it to the police. However, I hear the police say that the sex worker has to stop her profession first. Only then can a police report be filed. This is said because the opposing lawyer can use the arguments that it was all voluntary. I don't know exactly what's happening, but these are the sounds I hear. Does the Minister agree that a sex worker can always report exploitation and that she is not obliged to disregard her profession? I have always been surprised at the sky-high prices for window prostitution. Sometimes a sex worker must have had four clients to earn a day's share of her shift back. I actually think that is a form of exploitation. I understand that these are commercial prices and that it's a market. However, there are also municipalities such as Utrecht that build in maximum prices in an APV. That's how you make sure that exploitation doesn't happen. Finally. My final point is very important, namely enforcement. During the previous Wrp debate, the SP tabled a motion calling for sufficient capacity and expertise in the police and municipal enforcement. Only the VVD was against this motion. Of course, because she is the one who cuts most on safety. We also have the problem that many human trafficking cases remain on the shelves of the Public Prosecutor's Office, as I understand with the police. The motion requesting sufficient capacity and expertise in this area has been adopted by the Chamber. I therefore ask the Minister to make a plan of action for its implementation. I understand that this is not going to happen in practice, and I think that is a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u56	Before I give the floor to Mr Van Oosten of the VVD Group, I shall suspend the sitting for a moment at the request of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u57	I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u58	Mr. Chairman. Although not everyone can imagine it, there have been women and men who choose to work in the sex sector for a long time now. It's a legal profession, but at the same time it's a vulnerable profession. We are also confronted at various times with distressing situations in the prostitution sector. At least I can't rule that out. I visited Romania and Bulgaria with a number of colleagues, where we were given examples of this. When you see them, you just startle: women and also men who are victims of human trafficking, of human traffickers who force them to exploit themselves. I don't have any words for that. That's just unacceptable. That's not the kind of prostitution I can and want to tolerate. It cannot be defended that prostitutes who pursue a legal profession may be the victims of crimes committed by traffickers, coercion and exploitation. This bill should do something about these abuses, which I think we all think are unacceptable and that they should be dealt with. The legislative proposal, ladies and gentlemen, said that there is a very long history already. The theme goes back much longer in time, by the way. I've been browsing back in the 2011 edition of the Acts. At that time, the then MP Van der Steur referred to his report, and I have to look carefully at whether I read it well, the back cousin Johannes van der Steur, who, in 1892, also dealt with this subject, the regulation of prostitution. I do not want to go back that far in time, but we can rest assured that this Chamber, together with the First Chamber, has been looking into it for quite a number of years. I have just said in an interruption that, in my view, the Senate has more or less forced an amendment by allowing us to speak about this novelle. Although the law on fundamental elements has been adapted, I understand that various interest groups still have great difficulty with consequences for the sex workers themselves for the drafting of this law. People remain critical and some even think he is criminalising. Other stakeholders, for example the Dutch Association for Justice, say that the legislative proposal as it now stands offers too little scope to really prevent and counter the abuses. On the other hand, the VVD believes that we should be committed to tackling exploitation. I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following question. Can he take away the concerns of sex workers that this bill would be criminalising? To what extent can the effect of this proposal be that a legal profession that is prostitution can, of course, be countered? That is not the intention of the proposal for the VVD. We are dealing with a forest of rules that differ from one municipality to another. I have noted that some municipalities, such as Alkmaar and Utrecht, may or may not temporarily close streets or zones to prostitution because there have been very serious suspicions that victims of trafficking in human beings were working there, or that there would otherwise be unacceptable situations. That forest of rules can also lead to different prostitution policies being pursued everywhere. This law proposes the creation of a uniform system whereby operators have to meet the same requirements everywhere. It would no longer make sense to move activities that may be wrong to other municipalities where less stringent permit conditions would apply. In other words, with a uniform system, it's better to deal with abuses. I will ask the Minister to what extent that is not possible at the moment. Many municipalities now also have a type of permit system and is that essentially so different from what is proposed? In the end, the conditions surrounding the granting of licences themselves still have to be worked out. I'm just gonna ask, because I think it's relevant to know this. Is it true that municipalities can choose to introduce a so-called zero option? Mrs Kooiman has already spoken about this, but I do not know if it was in the same context. If a municipality chooses to do so, shouldn't that be motivated in a carryable way? Suppose all municipalities introduce such a zero option, then you de facto end a legal profession in itself. I don't think that's the point. I would like a response on this point from the Minister. Are there other examples in which a person wishes to pursue an occupation, but cannot do so because no authorisation is granted? Would it also be possible for municipalities to introduce local headlines on that uniform game? We in the Chamber sometimes talk about national heads of European legislation. The result is that you get a very different palette of rules. I would also like to ask the question, if that is too far-reaching, how this relates to the idea of decentralization which we, as a Chamber, at least within the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, advocate. I think that an aspect of the minimum age of 18 to 21 is very important. I tabled an amendment to that effect with Mrs Swinkels of D66, and I am pleased to note Mrs Kooiman's support. I find it odd that if you, as a customer, use services of a legal profession in a licensed sector, you can later be called against being punishable because the prostitute was under 21 years old. That responsibility lies with the operator. I think it is wrong that this should happen, but you must place the responsibility on the operator. That is the purpose of this amendment. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions which, like all of you in general letters, are addressed to me by the organisation PROUD, the representative of sex workers. It warns against the effects that the proposed legislative amendment could have on sex workers working at home. Some of my colleagues have already mentioned this. If I interpret the law correctly, and in particular the explanatory memorandum, the law offers opportunities for working at home and is not made mandatory by default when working at home. However, I would like to refer the concerns expressed by PROUD to the Minister and draw attention to them. I'm also asking the Minister for a response. When is homework allowed without a permit? Let's explicate this for the Acts anyway. I actually have to ask: when is homework business? That's what the bill says. Is that a quick thing to do? Perhaps the Minister could give some examples of this. That business aspect, I read in the letter, should also be understood, for example, as offering telephone sex. Could that be corporate homework, couldn't it? I'm just asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u59	Mr. Chairman. For the PvdA, two things are at the forefront of this change of law, namely improving the position of sex workers and combating abuses. Several colleagues have already said that in 2011 the House of Representatives adopted the original bill. However, this bill met with objections in the Upper Chamber. It has also been pointed out that in this proposal for adaptation, i.e. the novelle we are discussing today, added value was added, namely where the law on prostitution provides for better regulation of the industry and better protection of the prostitutes. The First Chamber insisted on rapid treatment. Mrs Kooiman also said that we did not quite succeed. Mr Van der Staaij said that it is now a complicated exercise. This is also a search. What can we do now? What can't we do? How do we ensure that the original purpose of this law is also seen by the Supreme Court and that it ultimately leads to the adoption of the bill? For my party, too, this was a quest. The original bill was, in our view, a good legislative proposal after we had discussed it extensively at the time and amended it. But we're not discussing the original bill right now. The novelle created a real insurmountable objection for my party, namely that sex work would be punishable by people under 21 years of age. Fortunately, that provision has now been removed. Here too, however, the political reality is that there is a good chance that if we go back to adapting what is now before us by amending, we will put the whole bill at risk. As far as we are concerned, rather than a legislative proposal at all. As far as we are concerned, what we have is sufficient, especially after the criminalisation of sex work by prostitutes under the age of 21 has been abolished. But it's mostly necessary. At the time, in 2011, we talked about the benefits of national uniform licensing and other benefits. I did not do that myself, by the way, but my predecessor on this dossier, Mrs Arib. We are not going to talk about these matters again as far as we are concerned. However, it may be important to mention that there is still a great need for legal regulation, even with what is now before us. This is also evident from the report of the WODC entitled Prostitution in the Netherlands in 2014. This zero measurement shows that there are serious shortcomings in the social position of prostitutes and there are problems in the illegal circuit that you can really call poignant. They are, of course, not only through legislation but also through legislation to create clear and national rights and obligations for all sex workers. In short, the PvdA has chosen not to let it be the enemy of good. My party will not, therefore, add what is necessary by amending it, however much we might wish to do. My party will confine itself to asking a number of questions to the Minister. Depending on his answers, we may still come forward with motions. I have a number of questions. The first question is about home prostitution. This point has already been mentioned by a number of colleagues. The definition of "business" appears to be difficult. This is also what the VNG writes in the letter sent by the association last July to the model APV, in anticipation of the Law regulation prostitution. In that letter, the VNG wrote that the model APV contained some concepts in which the association strongly recommended that they be specified in what the VNG calls "law-interpreting policy rules." It also specifically refers to the concept of 'business'. Can the Minister once again explain, and I think it is important to include this in the Acts, what exactly are we supposed to mean by the term 'business' and how do we prevent this from being interpreted differently by the municipalities? This is one of the main criticisms of organisations such as Soa Aids Nederland, PROUD and Vrouw en Recht. Woman and Law has even proposed to make an exception in the definition of Article 1 forzzp'ers who work alone or together with at most one or two otherzzp'ers. They say that this can be done by supplementing Article 1 of the Wrp. As I have said, I think we are wise not to amend it. My party is keen to prevent further changes from reducing the chances of being accepted in the First Chamber, but we are sensitive to the arguments of these parties. In the model APV or the final APV in the definition of businesslike, can not the text suggestion of the Association for Women and Law be taken over? It clarifies the definition of "businessman" and thus creates the desired uniformity and reflects the fears that exist about the scope of the definition now and its application to self-employed homeworkers. I'd like a response from the Minister. It is precisely those self-employed and voluntary prostitutes who fear that, after the introduction of the Wrp, their work and the way in which they want to complete it, becomes much more complicated. This lack of clarity contributes to this and I would like us to remove this uncertainty and uncertainty this evening. Another issue of concern as regards now in the latest version is mentioned in Article 28 of the Act. I quote: 'The officials referred to in Article 27 are authorized to enter a residence without the consent of the resident in the context of their supervisory duties, if there is professional prostitution there'. The phrase that was originally in it was: "where this takes place according to their reasonable suspicions." It's been removed, but there's still some uncertainty. In view of the article, the power to enter without permission exists only when there is business prostitution. Does this mean that this concerns only licence holders? Does it have to be certain that this is about corporate prostitution? How's that gonna work in practice? Here too, I think it is good to create clarity with the Minister, because that can help us hope that the Wrp will soon reach the finish line in the First Chamber of the Court of Justice on how the law is to be interpreted by the judiciary. I have a few brief questions. The Wrp makes it possible to limit the number of permits to sex companies and, according to the explanatory memorandum, also to designate a single area where sex companies may sit. Does this not mean that in practice home-working prostitutes can also be deprived of the right to practise their profession? In its report, the WODC proposes a link between registry data, tax data, data from the Chamber of Commerce and municipal data. I'd like to know from the Minister how he feels about that. How does this relate to the fact that we have already had a part of the discussion on privacy issues, in particular in the area of corporate prostitution from home? Furthermore, the WODC report shows that 40% of the municipalities have one or more prostitution companies. This is about companies of different kinds. In total, there were 674 authorised sex facilities in 2014, indicating that there was a marked decrease compared to 2006. The zero measurement also showed that 75% of municipalities have a prostitution policy and 24% have a zero option. I would like to know from the Minister what he thinks will be the effect of the Wrp on these figures, in order to get an idea of what this will mean for this development. The possibility of an absolute zero policy could possibly lead to an increase in the waterbed effect, which we want to avoid with the Wrp. Where municipalities say "we don't have to do it" that authorisation is now also entirely at the mayor's office, it may be that there is a shift to other municipalities. I would like a reflection from the Minister on this. The Arib motion of five years ago called for the social status of prostitutes to be improved. A plan has come up for this, but the zero measurement and the letter to the Chamber of 14 April last year show that the lifestyle of sex workers has improved compared to 2006, but not yet optimal. The Minister states that he will discuss with prostitutes' interest organisations on the basis of the results. How's this going? What is the most important condition for these organisations to further improve their way of life and to improve their social position? It has already been mentioned by Mr Van der Staaij: some of the sex workers have left work earlier with help from friends or family, but for financial reasons they have started work again. Of the sex workers, 56% know where she can get help getting off. How is the Minister going to ensure that the RUPS is not a return trip but a sustainable trip and that sex workers know where to go? Financial services are also poor. I have asked written questions about this before. Some banks still refuse to give a prostitute a business account. Now see in the note on the report that there will be an information leaflet. In short, it's not getting anywhere. How long will the Minister give the financial sector time? When can we really ensure full access to the financial sector for this profession? The law is not exhaustive, but lays down rules and municipalities themselves may lay down additional rules, such as registration. We have just discussed this in the discussion with Mrs Van Toorenburg. However, I would like to call for consultation with the VNG and the College for the Protection of Personal Data in order to have a look at vulnerable groups where necessary. Registration can then be used as a means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u60	I hear Mrs Volp say that she calls for consultation on the Amsterdam barrier model, so to speak. I know she cares about this. Should I conclude from this that the PvdA is not in favour of the amendment proposed by Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u61	I indicated in my speech that we are struggling with a complicated construction. We are afraid that any amendment will reduce the chances of this law in the First Chamber. As far as we are concerned, the aim must be the licensing system, and hence the possibilities for municipalities to achieve greater uniformity. Amendment is not a matter for our party, but I do think it is important for the dialogue to be conducted on this issue. I share what Mrs Van Toorenburg said. We need to be able to properly monitor and register the most vulnerable people, with all the guarantees of privacy, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u62	The amendment is now there and the dialogue is this evening, so again my question: is the PvdA going to vote in favour of this amendment by Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u63	We are not going to vote in favour of any amendment. Above all, we want to know from the Minister what the answer is. There's a clear question to him. It has also been suggested by Mrs Van Toorenburg that it may take the form of a motion. Amendment or motion, I would like to hear the Minister's views on that. We will then decide what we think is the best way. But again, I want this law to go to the First Chamber with the greatest possible chance of being adopted, in the short term, so that it can lead to an improvement in the position of sex workers. We're talking "about" again instead of "with." My party believes that local policy should involve associations of interests or local prostitutes. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, the participation of prostitutes is necessary in order to achieve the best possible policy that is supported in practice and is also perceived as added value. Secondly, coordination and dialogue with prostitutes ensure that the policy of the municipality is known to the profession. Precisely because prostitution policies may vary from one municipality to another, there must be clarity about the rights and obligations of prostitutes in that particular municipality. I want the Minister to discuss with the VNG how it is established that interest groups and/or prostitutes are also involved in the definition of municipal prostitution policy. I have already said that the Wrp is a small step, but that it will mainly be a good implementation by the municipalities. My party therefore wants the Minister to keep a close eye on this process and to inform the Chamber very regularly about its operation and about unexpected side effects. Prostitution is legal in the Netherlands. As far as my party is concerned, that is a great asset. However, it is also a fragile asset. We need to improve the social position of sex workers and combat abuses. That's what I started my speech with. The Wrp as it is now can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u64	Mr. Chairman. The bill for regulating prostitution and combating abuses in the sex sector was already stranded in the Upper House in 2013. That bill included a registration requirement for prostitutes and a so-called obligation for customers. A customer first had to check if he was involved with a prostitute who had been entered in the national register. Finally, the proposal contained a licence requirement for operators of sex companies, either prostitution or escort companies. In a motion, the First Chamber called on the Minister to remove the obligation to register prostitutes and the obligation to demand compensation for customers. However, the licensing system was subject to approval. The bill we are now debating is the implementation of the motion passed in the First Chamber. Only my group and the Christian Union Group voted against that motion in the First Chamber. My group in the First Chamber did agree with the deletion of the obligation to be consulted, because it does not address the problem and it is not enforceable. However, my group did not believe that it could be assumed beforehand that the obligation to register would be legally unsustainable. My colleague also said that registration does not affect any abuses that may exist. If registration is necessary to identify any abuses, the PVV Group will not go for that. However, the obligation to register as laid down in the original bill is out. That is what happened in order to carry out the motion. Fortunately, the increase in the minimum age of the prostitute from 18 to 21 years has remained. I say 'happy' because Mr Agema has been fighting for this for many years and has even tabled an own-initiative proposal in 2008. What has changed is that the prostitute is not punishable if she goes into prostitution, while she has not yet reached that age limit. On the other hand, the customer is punishable if he commits sexual acts with a prostitute under the age of 21. In the original bill, this was guaranteed by the obligation to register. After all, the prostitute could not register until she was 21 years of age or older. Now that this obligation to register has expired, the obligation to check at the age of the prostitute has been imposed on the customer. I told you, oh, no, I haven't said that yet. I was just getting ahead of myself. It is late and the debate also got late last night. My group was and remains in agreement with the licensing requirement for the operation of a sex business. This creates a clear distinction. If there is no permit, the operation of the sex company is illegal. That's what I just meant. As I said, my group also agrees, of course, with the increase in the age of prostitution to 21 years. I have already referred to my colleague, Mrs Agema,'s own-initiative proposal. The fact that the customer is punishable if he takes sexual services from the prostitute under the age of 21 is a logical consequence of this. The aim of the age limit is to protect the prostitute. I do not want to say straight away that it is a vulnerable group, because young people under 18 years of age can indeed be very mature and a voluntary and conscious choice for this work is certainly my group's intention to respect. But there are certainly reasons for this age limit, which was also mentioned in my colleague's own-initiative proposal. I'm just gonna pull a little bit out of her bill for this. She made the link to the loverboy problem. There was in general the recruitment of girls around 18 years of age, so that they could be exploited immediately after their 18th year. By raising that age limit, loverboys will lose interest in girls aged between 15 and 18, as my colleague said at the time. She also referred to the way in which the municipality of The Hague dealt with this, because it already worked with that higher age limit. After this trip I will return to my original lyrics. According to the legislative proposal, a customer can in principle be satisfied that the intended transactions take place in the context of an authorised company. Article 16 of the Wrp enables customers to do so. If the customer ascertains whether he is using the services in the context of an authorised company, he may assume that, precisely because he is purchasing services in that authorised sector, he will not in principle be prosecuted. However, if the customer is proven to have been misled, this does play a role in the prosecution decision and in the case of prosecution to the extent to which the offence is charged to the customer. If the prostitute is under the age of 21 but is employed in the licensed sector, then the customer may still be the target. But my group agrees with that, because age is an objective criterion. It's pretty easy to check. As I said, the age limit for the prostitute is a plus. Nor will the prostitute herself be punishable, which would be the case in the original bill. So the client is left, and it's a criminal offense. As far as my group is concerned, this is acceptable, because he has a responsibility to check whether this objective criterion, that age limit, is met. Finally, I would like to point out the following. My group has asked how municipal supervisors can suspect that a prostitute has not yet reached the required age. In the note following the report, the Minister replied that the criminality of the prostitute has expired now that the legislative proposal has been amended and that the answer to that question is no longer relevant. My group does not agree with that. Firstly, the whole idea was that girls under 21 years of age could be removed from prostitution. Secondly, a customer is punishable if he uses the services of a prostitute who is under the age of 21, as I have just said. For these two reasons, my group believes that supervision should be good and that a supervisor should be alert at the age of a prostitute. I therefore maintain that question in the hope that the Minister will answer it in this oral procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u65	I will reopen the sitting with the observation that we are discussing a novelle tonight. That's a commitment from the government in the Upper Chamber. I think it is okay if Members table amendments, technically that is possible, but I do want to keep the debate somewhat limited tonight. I suggest we use two interruptions per person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u66	Mr. Chairman. I thank Members for the questions. I note that you said just now, President.... that we are talking today about a novella on a bill that we discussed very extensively in this Chamber in 2011. I was present as a spokesperson at the time. A lot of questions that have now been asked have also been asked at that time. I shall try to deal in detail with the questions relating to the novella, the questions relating to the renewal and the consequences of the novella and any amendments. In view of your request, Mr President, perhaps it would be good to be a little too short on questions relating to the general functioning of the law. Of course I will answer these questions, but a number of years ago we had a very wide-ranging exchange of views on them. I remember the debate at that time very well. Many parties, regardless of whether they were for or against legal prostitution at the time or for or against the abolition of the brothel ban, had points in the then legislative proposal that they found less optimal. This was true of the increase in age to 21 years. Mr Van Oosten and others have already mentioned it: you can do anything from 18 years on, so why not do this? That was also an extensive subject of discussion. There has been a great deal of talk about the obligation to register, with which the obligation was linked, with the same arguments that have just been mentioned in the debate regarding privacy, but also with regard to getting known and with regard to the question of why you should register when you engage in a legal profession, since you do not have to do so as a plumber, carpenter or florist, but if you as an adult, adult, adult choose to be a prostitute. There was much less discussion about the licensing obligation for companies engaged in the exploitation of prostitution. In fact, in the Chamber, the Communist opinio was in urgent need of it. The principles have therefore not changed. Combating abuses, tackling trafficking in human beings, regulating the industry, protecting prostitutes and improving the position of prostitutes are still paramount. As a result of the novelle, the obligation to register individual prostitutes and the obligation to enforce them have been removed from the law. The result of removing the obligation to register and the obligation to delete is, however, that the government realizes very well that the very careful balance that was contained in the original law, which has been the subject of much discussion, has disappeared and that there has been some kind of imbalance. This has led to a novum on the novelle because a series of amendments have been tabled which make the novelle a different character from that of the First Chamber at the time. A number of spokesmen have already indicated that there is a risk that the First Chamber will then say: wait a minute, this is not what we intended and what we had in mind. There's a risk. We must be honest that there is a chance, no matter what amendment will be adopted, that the First Chamber will say: for us the balance has disappeared from the law. I would also like to welcome the amendments. With Mr Van der Staaij and others, I say that this would be very difficult because, at the same time, we voted almost unanimously or even unanimously in the House of Representatives because, of course, the objectives, the fight against abuses, the fight against trafficking in human beings, regulation, the protection of prostitutes and the improvement of the position of prostitutes were widely shared. That makes this legal treatment special in that sense. I'm gonna drop the door in the house. For a technical adjustment, I will submit a third letter of amendment, which I have here in my hand, dated today. A number of spokesmen have already referred to Article 28, which deals with corporate prostitution that takes place in a particular home. This could lead to a misunderstanding in the law. This has to do with the possibility for supervisors to be able to enter in the framework of their supervision of sex establishments. The importance of this is that if an independent prostitute is employed in a home, supervision is not involved because it is not subject to authorisation. That is one of the points of PROUD, the organisation that is also present here tonight. This one has handed me a black book today with very useful suggestions, on which I would very much like to talk to this organisation and many others. I'll get back to you on that. PROUD has pointed out that this is an undesirable point. It is important for the government that the current wording in the law may create uncertainty and uncertainty about the possibility of entering a home. That is why I am submitting the third letter of amendment. This means that such access is only possible to a house in which a sex establishment is also established for which authorisation has been granted. I will explain in such a way that a self-employed prostitute does not require authorisation. I shall come back to that in detail, in response to the questions put by Mrs Volp, among others. I have a huge bucket of questions. I'll briefly tell you how it's going. I'll start with the position of the self-employed prostitute. Then I'll get to work on the room for congregations. Next, I will talk about monitoring. That'll be a short block. Then I come to the issue of trafficking in human beings and exploitation, the position of the customer, the increase in age from 18 to 21 years, including the right of transition, the social position of prostitutes and a very large pile of answers on other issues. In the meantime, the 26th hour of my presence in the Chamber has taken place in two days, but I am doing so with the same enthusiasm as I was able to end my contribution to the very tasteful debate on my budget last night at 1:00 a.m. The first point is the position of the self-employed prostitute. Mrs Volp and others have specifically asked if the Minister would like to make it very clear to us about the Acts, and it is indeed very important for me to make this very clear: what should be understood under the term 'business'. How are we supposed to understand "business" in the law? If there was any uncertainty about that concept, and there is a lack of clarity, that is also apparent from the written procedure, which could affect individual prostitutes. The zero measurement of this bill has also shown that there are serious concerns about this. For this reason, I have not only just submitted a letter of amendment, but I also think it is very important to clarify it. I am going to try to make this clear to the Chamber as follows, but also to the public gallery and the people who are listening to it. The definition of a prostitution company in the law is as follows: It is an activity consisting of the business opportunity for prostitution. This means that a prostitution company carries two elements: giving business and opportunity to. It is someone who gives someone else the opportunity to practice the profession of prostitute. In terms of the law, it is an operator operating the prostitution business. After all, he makes it possible for the prostitute to make herself available to perform sexual acts with another person, against payment. That is the terminology in the law. This means that if the element "companyly" would lead to the conclusion that a prostitute is a company within the meaning of this law, this would lead to a twisted construction with very undesirable consequences. This means that the prostitute is not covered by the term "prostitution" and will not be covered by the general term "sex business." Since the exercise of a prostitution business requires authorisation, the authorisation requirement applies only to the operator, and thus not to the individual prostitute. With this explanation there is no need for an additional provision in the law, because it is already in it. It is important, however, that this explanation is clearly included in the Acts and that it is clearly communicated as part of the implementation process, where necessary, so that there can be no ambiguity about it. That is why I have also tabled the letter of amendment. It contributes to the removal of any ambiguity. So if Mrs Swinkels asks if homeworkers are subject to authorisation, my answer is: no, because an individual prostitute can never be a company within the meaning of this law. This applies not only to home workers, but also to other prostitutes who do not work at home and are not covered by the definition of "business."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u67	Let me begin by saying that I am very pleased with the letter of amendment that has just come to us. That indeed responds to my concerns about the implementation of Article 28, so thank you for that. I believe that this will ultimately lead to an important clarification. This also removes fear. But I would like to mention an example of something that I am still hesitant about. What if a prostitute rents a room at someone's house and works from there? What about what the minister just said? What about that "offending" thing? In that case, is the landlord the one who has to apply for a permit? I'm just trying to focus on this situation right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u68	That's a good question. If someone rents a space for the exercise of the work of a prostitute, I think it is obvious that there is an opportunity. So someone like that is subject to a permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u69	In that case, we'll be right back with that businessman. Suppose someone receives customers from that room, but the landlord doesn't have a direct view of it. So, what's the deal with licensing? It's really about these kind of subtle nuances. Municipalities are going to have to deal with that. And because we know from practice that this can also have consequences for landlords, for example, I want to make sure that this does not cause them any problems, but also that in such a case the prostitute will not get in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u70	I don't think there's a problem with that. The prostitute is the one who makes herself available for payment for performing sexual acts with another. She herself doesn't give anyone else an opportunity to do that. The prostitute herself will not be subject to authorisation, but the person giving the opportunity will be subject to authorisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u71	I'd like to philosophize about this theme. I suppose I have to understand the Minister's explanation in such a way that the facilitator, the landlord in Mrs Volp's example, must have had knowledge of the fact that the prostitute was working as a prostitute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u72	Of course, we have to be careful about that. If you were very strict about that criterion, an operator of a window could say that he did not know anything, and that could result in the person concerned being subject to authorisation. That would be undesirable. It's really about protecting prostitutes. It is designed along the line of authorisation to operators. We want to be serious about protecting the prostitutes. Then it is true that someone who gives a professional opportunity to a prostitute to offer sexual services to another, is very quickly an operator within the meaning of the law. Mr Van Oosten wants this law, like me, to provide as many guarantees as possible to the prostitutes, because the operator has a licence and meets the requirements we impose on operators in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u73	I am looking for the answer to the question when an operator is involved. We must be clear about that. At the time you rent out a space that can also be an entire house to what turns out to be a sex worker, can you then be thrown against as a landlord?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u74	I'll turn it around. There will also be exceptions to any legislation. I would like to come back to the first thing I said here: what was the purpose of this law again? Well, protection of prostitutes, regulating the industry and improving the position of prostitutes. We do this by imposing a number of conditions in the law on the permit which improve the position of prostitutes. That is why we have an interest in ensuring that we do not end up in a debate in the vein of 'yes, but I did not know at all that it was a prostitute'. If we want to stand for the principles of the law, then we really need to ensure that a landlord of a space in which someone prostitutes himself is expected to wonder: why is this house, or this space, rented out? It sounds a little weird, because of course it's not exactly equivalent, but if you have a hemp farm in your home, it also has consequences. The principle of the law is that there is as much protection as possible through the operators for the individual prostitutes, who are not themselves subject to authorisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u75	Suppose a housing corporation rents a property or an apartment to an independent home working prostitute. That housing corporation doesn't know that, but did it suddenly become an operator within the meaning of the law when that self-employed prostitute rents a house?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u76	That depends entirely on the situation, bearing in mind the starting point of the law. Moreover, most housing corporations will have included a provision in the rental agreement stating that the rental is only suitable for housing and not for other activities. Mrs Swinkels knows that too, so the situation is highly hypothetical. You would immediately act in violation of the law with any activity you would perform there, as you would violate the law with a hemp farm. I also think that the neighbours will probably have an opinion on this. One thing is for sure: I think this is typically something you have to look at, in the vein of "what exactly does it mean?" But the principle of the law is that operators must be subject to authorisation. If we do not now see that this is the case, and if we do not see that this is the case, then we will not achieve the objective of ensuring that operators are responsible for improving the position of prostitutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u77	D66 agrees that the operator is the one responsible, but that is not the point. It's about a landlord calling that someone who just rents his house, it can be you and I who rents a house to someone who offers sexual services in the rented living space, without the landlord knowing that. Do you suddenly become an operator as a landlord? That is still not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u78	It will never become clear, because it will ultimately be up to the former colleagues of Mrs Swinkels to assess whether or not this is the case. I am saying here, and that must also be the starting point of the law, because we all have the interest that as many landlords as possible who give others the opportunity to provide sexual services are seen as an operator within the meaning of the law, because that means that we achieve what we want through the law, namely that the position of prostitutes is improved. This automatically means, of course, that there will be exceptions and that there are circumstances why someone is or is not an operator. Of course, I'll admit that to Mrs. Swinkels immediately. However, let us not get bogged down in that now. That part will be considered in the implementation of the law and we will evaluate it. As far as I am concerned, we will not do so after three years, as Mrs Swinkels proposes, but after five years. I will state the reasons for this when I go into the amendment. One thing is certain: exceptions and discussions will always be there, as is the case with every law. The starting point here must be really clear and above this cathedral, and that is that prostitutes are better protected and their position is improved along the lines of the law. Mr Van Oosten has asked what the effect of the law on sex workers working at home is. Today I was able to speak with the representatives of PROUD on my way here and over the last few weeks I have had contact with Mayor Van der Laan of Amsterdam about the social position of prostitutes. Do you get a bank account? Can you take out insurance? Is it possible to set up a mortgage on a property, a building or a property if you want to settle as a prostitute? Can you qualify for disability insurance? These are all complex questions, which have not been answered in all cases. I hear there has been a lot of improvement, but I also want to see that for myself. That is why I have agreed with Mayor Van der Laan that we will proceed very soon with his initiative which he took in 2015. I said earlier in the Chamber when we were talking about Mrs Swinkels' motion, that I will take those steps. I will also do so in order to see how, as a minister, I can further implement my predecessor's promise that the legal profession of prostitute will be properly dealt with by the parties, on which they depend to a large extent. That is the starting point and, of course, I will inform the Court of Justice of this in due course, prior to, for example, the subsequent general consultation on this matter. Mr Van Oosten asked about the zero option for municipalities. The zero option applies only to prostitution companies. That is why it is very important that I make it very clear who is or is not subject to authorisation. Self-employed prostitutes, such as home workers, are not covered by the licensing system for prostitution companies and therefore there can be no zero option for home workers. As far as I am concerned, there is no room for municipalities to deviate from that. Mrs Kooiman has asked whether home workers are not killed in bureaucracy. I do not think so, because if we establish clearly that prostitutes are not treated as prostitution companies as provided for in the law, all kinds of administrative problems arising from the law on prostitution companies will not apply to individual prostitutes. I have answered Mrs Volp's questions and that brings me to the end of the block of self-employed prostitutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u79	Mrs. Volp wants to post her last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u80	You have to be very careful, because after this I'm done playing! The Minister reiterates that the zero option is explicitly not intended for self-employed domestic workers. In practice, we see that this is complicated. It concerns in particular those municipalities which do not promote this and many home-working prostitutes who do not know this. How can we ensure that what the Minister intends to do with the law is actually implemented? We are already seeing a different practice and I think that we in the Chamber are already differing on the interpretation of the current zero option.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u81	I think it's very simple. If this is finally accepted by the First Chamber, whether or not amended, which can of course be quite exciting, it is of course up to the Minister, the VNG and also PROUD to ensure that all parties concerned are aware of the new agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u82	How does this relate to the current zero option, whereby municipalities indicate that it is not the intention from home, although it is? This is, in fact, a tightening up of the current zero option, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u83	There will be no licence requirement for self-employed prostitutes. As a result, there is no room and no possibility for municipalities to provide for the authorisation of prostitutes carrying out their activities in this way. Of course, nuisance can be an argument, but that's a completely different story. There will be places where it is less practical and obvious to carry out these activities. That will undoubtedly be demonstrated in practice. I come to the subject of room for congregations. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that the law does not change that prostitution is a legal activity. Mrs Volp said that very nicely: it is a big, but vulnerable good that we have legal prostitution in the Netherlands. I know there's a different way of thinking about that, too. I shall look at Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers in secret, but in principle the cabinet position is that it is a large but vulnerable good. We realise, of course, that there are abuses. We also know that within this profession, as stated by PROUD, there are many people who do not suffer from abuses at all, who are not victims of trafficking in human beings, who exercise this profession entirely of their own choice and who enjoy doing so in this way. Let us be realistic in this: there is a whole range of differences, including among the people who practice this profession. That also makes it so difficult to pursue a clear policy. That is the challenge we face together. Unchanged is that prostitution is a legal activity. The law does not restrict prostitutes such as a permit. Municipalities have room for additional rules. The law explicitly provides space for this on parts and a municipality can also make use of its general regulatory powers. Municipalities do not have the room to create a municipal permit specifically for prostitutes, because the law consciously refrains from doing so. Municipalities may lay down rules for self-employed prostitutes, provided that those rules are comparable to those applicable to similar groups. Similar is any other independent homeworker: the hairdresser, the nail studio or the physiotherapist. If they have to meet certain requirements in a specific municipality, the same requirements may also be applied to self-employed prostitutes. In that case, it is not an illegal interpretation of the Wrp, but of general municipal policy. Then there is equal monks, equal hoods. Everyone has the same rule. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether it was a restriction on the possibility for municipalities to lay down rules now that Article 3 has been deleted. The original legislative proposal contained a certain limitation, namely that rules should cover the visible way in which prostitutes would operate. That restriction has been deleted by amendment. In the opinion of the government, the article therefore no longer had any added value and was therefore also deleted. That does not mean that there is a restriction. I have just explained that municipalities have and have a general competence to lay down rules, but as I have just indicated, that is not unlimited. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked me how I felt about measures already taken in municipalities, for example the age increase, where a number of municipalities have advanced. I can simply say that, in principle, all measures taken in the context of the protection of prostitutes are assessed positively. There are limits to the measures taken by municipalities regarding, for example, the licensing obligation that I have just explained in detail, but also regarding privacy. I shall come back to that when I deal with Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment. There is no obligation to register in the law. It is in itself very positive when municipalities try to get in touch as much as possible with prostitutes, especially with the groups of prostitutes that are very concerned about whether they are also victims of trafficking in human beings, one of the pillars of the legislative proposal. This can be done, for example, by the aid, or by the GGD. It is already foreseen in many municipalities that these contacts exist. I think it would be wise for municipalities to do so together as much as possible, so that they would have the same kind of policy. I therefore warmly welcome contacts with prostitutes where, in the opinion of the municipalities, this is necessary and desirable. I think it is good that municipalities are in contact with organisations like PROUD to see how best to do that. I remember myself in the debate... let me rephrase it. I recall that the VVD Group stressed the role of the GGD in the debate. Rather the GGD than having a municipal official do that because the GGD will deal with such contacts in a very different way than a municipal official.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u84	I presented the case of Utrecht to the Minister. If he goes into that, it would help me get some image and sound at the suggestion the Minister is making right now. Municipalities can work together so that they can see a vulnerable group. Let me give you the example of the Sand Path. At that time the criticism was that the boats were closed, but that it was not known where the women had left off. Mr Kooiman has asked for this. How can municipalities work together in such a case in such a way that they keep an eye on the women who leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u85	That's a good question. Municipalities have to do this in the way they always work together, that is to say from a well-understood self-interest. If I or my colleague in the Interior can play a role in this, we will, of course, be happy to do so. Many municipalities are already working together. I do not want to go into too much detail about Utrecht's example, because it is a specific example on which a series of judgments have been made. I believe that the municipality has now also offered a solution at another location. But one thing is certain: it is in the interests of municipalities to have good contact with each other if they take measures that can lead to a problem elsewhere. I also think it is only right that they should do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u86	It's not getting clear to me yet. The decision to withdraw the licence was justified. That has been confirmed to the Council of State. There's no doubt about that. The criticism was that an alternative had to be offered to keep an eye on the outgoing women. It's not known where they went. They may be victims of trafficking in human beings. Can the G.D.D. play a part in this? Can the Minister speak to the VNG about this again? How can municipalities work together in such a way that the objections to the obligation to register privacy and the like and the concern about keeping women in the picture can be combined?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u87	I have already said that once the law has been accepted by the First Chamber, it is appropriate to sit down with the VNG, PROUD and other parties in order to answer the question of how we can ensure that the new regulation is as familiar as possible. That's what this subject is all about. I think it is very important that municipalities have as many contact moments as possible. They cannot be compulsory, because compulsory registration is not allowed under the law. Those contacts can take place voluntarily. That's incredibly important. The aid must also be provided. If people need it, RUPS programs can be offered. For every municipality it is very important to have an eye for wrongdoing. If a municipality makes a decision which removes prostitutes from sight, so it may be possible to go to another municipality, it is very obvious that that municipality should contact the municipalities where those prostitutes might have gone. It is possible that these municipalities will be able to see the people who have gone out of sight in the first municipality. Mrs. Kooiman also asked about the area for municipalities. I strongly advocate that municipalities should be allowed legal prostitution under the law. The zero measurement shows that only 24% of municipalities have zero licensing policies. This can be a formal zero policy, which does not allow the establishment of prostitution companies, or a zero policy, where the conditions of establishment are such that establishment is impossible in practice. This does not mean that there is an opportunity to limit self-employed prostitutes in the exercise of their work. Ms Van Toorenburg asked about the state of play of the integrated approach to supervision and enforcement in municipalities. Within the national program prostitution, several municipalities consider the way in which supervision and enforcement within the prostitution sector can be organised when Wrp has entered into force. With the novelle it remains possible to dedicate supervisory tasks to the police. We have had this discussion extensively in the course of the examination of the legislative proposal itself. Of course, it is important that cooperation between the municipality and the police is as efficient as possible. A common approach is preferable. As far as I am concerned, that should simply be done that way. Then I come to the block of human trafficking and exploitation. Mrs Kooiman asked a question that I can only answer with 'yes', namely whether I also think that a prostitute should always be able to report exploitation. Imagine if I said no. That seems extremely undesirable to me. For the Acts, I say here that the Government's answer is that a victim of trafficking in human beings can and must, of course, always report it. There are no conditions, even if you do not have legal status in the Netherlands. If there is exploitation, it is obvious that the victim will not continue the work under the same conditions. Mrs Kooiman also asked about the expensive provisions for window prostitution. I think it is very important to note that working or providing services under poor conditions, including receiving an unusually low wage, can be an indicator of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. The starting point of the People's Trade Note of the Public Prosecutor's Office is that all signals of trafficking in human beings must be picked up. The police and the Public Prosecutor's Office shall examine on a case-by-case basis whether there are sufficient grounds for investigation and prosecution. However, the rent of windows is left to the free market. Perhaps Mrs Kooiman finds that annoying from the SP point of view, but that is the way the world is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u88	I would still like the Minister to leave it with "I can say yes" to what Mrs Kooiman says." I liked that answer. I have two points. I'll start with the reports. The minister started his statement very well, but I ask him to make another statement. When there is exploitation of a sex worker, the police sometimes suggest that she should withdraw from her profession. The Group of the Party of European Socialists does not think that this is desirable. I would therefore like to hear a statement from the Minister on this. Of course, I agree with the Minister that it is a free market. That's what I said. However, a municipality may include a maximum price in the permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u89	No. I think we should be very clear on the last point. Rent is just a free market issue. It's up to people. That's not what the government's about, nor the municipality's about. That would be undesirable and would not fit in with the policy we are pursuing in the Netherlands. Then there is the first point. I'm just trying to figure out what Mrs. Kooiman means, how I can understand that. Let me give you an example. Someone joins the police and claims to be exploited and want to report it and then returns to the same exploitation situation. That doesn't make any sense. If you report exploitation and you continue to exploit it, I don't know if it's crazy for the police to advise you not to do so and to stop doing so: you report it, we're gonna investigate it, but stop doing so and don't let it take you any further. If Mrs Kooiman means that that advice should not be given, I would find that strange. However, if someone reports exploitation to the police from then to then and tells them to work in a different way now, I don't understand. After all, it is a legal profession. In these two examples, I understand advice in the first case and it seems strange to me the second case. If that exploitation situation is resolved and someone is reporting what happened in the past, I see no reason for the police to say that that person should stop doing so. I also think it's very casuistic, but it might be good to record it in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u90	I think it would certainly be a good idea to record that in the Acts. A sex worker may sometimes have been exploited by a pimp, or put under pressure, but be behind his or her profession. I see the Minister nodding "yes" and I am very pleased with this statement. It can help sex workers a lot. On the second point of maximum prices, the Minister may say that we do not do so in the Netherlands, but we do so in the Netherlands. This is the case in Utrecht. We can use this best practice and I ask the Minister very kindly to call on other municipalities to take a look at this too. I don't think it's normal for you as a sex worker to have four or five customers first to get the rent of that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u91	I do not think it is desirable for the government to express itself directly about this. The fact that municipalities make a different choice is the result of the system we chose in the house of Thorbecke. As a liberal, I will be the last to find anything of that, but it is not up to the government. Municipalities are free to do so, but I do not intend to set a standard for myself. But again for the Acts: come up with a proposal, the Acts will undoubtedly be read by the municipalities, and this best practice, as Mrs Kooiman has pointed out, may be taken up by other municipalities. Mrs Kooiman is of course free to have her SP colleagues present this suggestion in all municipalities in the Netherlands. That is the most effective way in which Mrs Kooiman can achieve what she wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u92	I see that Mrs Kooiman wants to respond again, but I propose that we do interrupt in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u93	I come now to the next block, the block about age. The basic principle of the law is that the age limit is set at 21 years. Mr Van der Staaij has asked what I think about raising the age of the customer. He asked me the same question a few weeks ago, and I answered it. With regard to time, I would like to refer to Mr Van der Staaij. The answer was that the government has no intention of raising the age of customers to 21 years. Then I come to the next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u94	Mr Van der Staaij has a question for you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u95	I was hoping I could get away with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u96	At the time, the Minister used the argument that it was wise not to discuss it in the context of this proposal. That's why I didn't want the discussion. Now the Minister points out that this is not a good idea with the argument that it hardly occurs in practice. I pointed out to him a study from 2010 which shows that it does indeed occur. Doesn't it make sense, when you come up with a proposal to raise age, to look at the age of the person who uses those services?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u97	No, because that too would be another normative judgment of the government on when to use the services of a prostitute. The government doesn't see anything like that. I have also indicated that the most recent studies I have quoted show that the problem is extremely limited. Mr Van der Staaij is experiencing this as a problem, but you can also think very differently about it. The government sees no reason to take action in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u98	The Minister now mentions the normative argument. Isn't that what's going on in all kinds of laws? For alcohol or tobacco, or for certain types of work in which you can drive a car. Many laws apply an age limit in which there are interests that justify it. You expect a customer to know he's not dealing with illegals, but isn't that a reason to handle a slightly higher age than the age of 16?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u99	We have a legal system in which we have chosen to allow sexual acts from 16 years of age. The regulations referred to by Mr Van der Staaij are often based on public health arguments. I do not think it is appropriate to start working with Mr Van der Staaij on the effects of using the services of a prostitute or of sexuality in general. The government really sees no reason to take steps in this respect. It sees no reason not only because the problem is not there, but also because we have a different legal system. This is also about how you look at paid sexual acts in a normative sense. I note that the government has a different view on this than Mr Van der Staaij. Mr Van der Staaij has asked a question about the prudent policy of persecution which is mentioned in the documents. That remark refers only to the situation that a customer visits an authorised establishment. This will change, if necessary, as a result of the adoption of the motion by Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Swinkels. The current law states that it is the responsibility of the operator to ensure that there are no prostitutes under 21 years of age. In fact, the operator is punishable under this law if there is a prostitute under the age of 21. Under the law in its present form, you can therefore assume that if you use the services of a prostitute in an authorised establishment, that prostitute is not less than 21 years old. If it turns out that the prostitute is still under 21, the Public Prosecutor will have a prudent prosecution policy. If Mr van Oosten and Mrs Swinkels' amendment were to be adopted, the problem of criminality would no longer arise. I come to the block about the people between 18 and 21 years old. Mrs Swinkels asked what the Minister is doing to ensure that this vulnerable group does not disappear into illegality. For this, we have opted for a combination of assistance, supervision, enforcement and the abolition of the criminalisation of the work of prostitutes under the age of 21. This combination will have to minimise these risks. The latter is of great importance to me. That is why I have changed this myself. In the original bill it was assumed that the prostitute under the age of 21 who was active could also be punishable. The then existing interest groups, so the predecessors of PROUD I think PROUD didn't exist at the time: that policy is exactly the wrong thing to do. That would mean that, for example, if you were to report the fact that you are the victim of a loverboy, you would also be at risk of being punishable yourself. At that time, the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings said that this would be typically an instrument that loverboys would use. They could tell their victims you're a criminal, so you better keep doing what you're doing on my order. That was also the reason for the government to abolish that criminality. We want to make the threshold for reporting as low as possible for people who are under the age of 21, who are active and in whom there are abuses. So this is in the interest of, among other things, the approach of loverboys. Mrs Swinkels asked how, in practice, the operator's responsibility to verify age is fulfilled. Of course, that's just being checked. Of course, it goes without saying that if you start working with an operator, you can have your age verified using documents. Mr Segers asked the same question. Enforcement for the minimum age is carried out through operators and customers, as shown by the legislative proposal. Operators are punishable and lose their license if they have prostitutes under the age of 21 working for or with them. And customers are punishable if they engage with prostitutes under 21 years of age. I have therefore expressly chosen not to check the age of prostitutes, because of the threshold I have just mentioned. Mrs Van Tongeren asked what the chances are that prostitutes go underground and what happens when their income disappears suddenly. The good news, of course, is that the law has been built so that everyone will know that there will be a change of law. That is what I say to Mrs Van Tongeren, but also to Mrs Swinkels. Anyone could know that. What if today or next Tuesday this novelle, whether amended or not, is adopted? Everyone knows without any doubt, also in the industry thanks to the efforts of PROUD and other organisations, for example, that there will be a legislative change. If the bill is then finally passed by the Upper House, everyone knows that the full law will probably come into force on 1 January. Then there is another year of transition. On balance, therefore, we have at least one and a half years to prepare for this. People who are active in this sector, who are under 21 years of age and are not 21 years of age or older within one and a half years, therefore still have a year and a half to work differently. Maybe that's a good thing too, I guess. Even if they do not, they are not themselves punishable, but are those who exploit or are punishable by the customer. That, of course, means that, if it is right, there should be changes in the situation. However, there is ample opportunity to adapt to this. I have already said a lot about the social position of prostitutes. We have also discussed this earlier on the basis of a number of motions for resolutions. A lot of bottlenecks have been solved. The Tax Administration is judged to be very positive. The Tax Administration also plays a very important role in the so-called opt-in for employees in brothels in the Netherlands. The majority of people are positive about this. The national interest association PROUD is financially supported, I understand. Every year the Empire talks with the interest groups about policy, very recently with my department, unfortunately without myself. As far as the public gallery is concerned, I would like to say that very soon I will be talking to PROUD, with or without Mayor Van der Laan, to see where there are still problems and how we can resolve them. Fortunately, it is all far less worrying than Mrs Swinkels always wants to believe in debates, but there are undoubtedly problems that we can still overcome. That was the ambition of my predecessor and I have that ambition myself. Mrs Kooiman pointed out that the opt-in scheme also has disadvantages for sex workers, and that is correct. All the shapes you choose have disadvantages. Opt-in has disadvantages, being a zzp'er also has disadvantages, wage earner has disadvantages. There are always disadvantages and advantages to the way you choose. I think it is very important for sex workers to be able to make their own choices and to have their own advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u100	Mrs. Kooiman for her last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u101	The Minister says that sex workers have a choice in this, but that is not the case. It's either opt-in or the zzp construction. Sex workers indicate of both possibilities that they are actually not optimal. They would also like to have an option as an employed person. Now I know that in The Hague, in cooperation with all the major parties, such as the police and the tax authorities, there is a search for an opportunity for an employment structure. Is the Minister prepared to talk to these organisations to see if this possibility can be offered more often and whether best practices can also be placed in other municipalities? I think it would be desirable to improve that situation for sex workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u102	I am always willing to encourage the sharing of best practices between municipalities. Of course, I'm not in charge of the IRS. That's another colleague. If those best practices are there and have been tried and appreciated, I am happy to bring them to the attention of municipalities. The task of then aligning this is really with municipalities. Where the SP can play a role in all those municipalities in which it sits in the city council, Mrs Kooiman must not fail to advise her party on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u103	Of course, it would be very social if this minister also did his job and actually went to municipalities to spread it. Of course, we can both achieve that a little more. I will give the name of the organization that is working on this and is already very far. Can the Minister write in his progress letter for the next AO what he does with it? Then I can follow it a little bit. I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u104	Under the agreement that Mrs Kooiman is doing her job and that she will ensure that the SP groups in the country raise this point where it is relevant, we are moving in together. I am happy to report on the actions of the SP in the various municipalities in the progress letter. Where I can play a role myself, I will gladly do so. Mrs Kooiman also asked for a national complaint counter. I work with the interest organisation of sex workers and will continue to do so. My information is that there is no need for a separate point of contact and that we have PROUD right to fulfil that point of contact and to be accessible to prostitutes with questions and any complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u105	Mr Segers has a question about this in his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u106	You're keeping up, Mr. Chairman. I do have a question. I do not know what the level of organisation is in the prostitution sector, but I can imagine that there are also prostitutes who are not affiliated with PROUD. It is good that PROUD is a man-to-man, but it is also a large group, for example, of Eastern European women who do not organise themselves. If the Minister repeatedly says that he will speak with PROUD and thus have spoken with the sector and the workers, it seems to me to be a little short-sighted. It is a much larger and diverse group and it is much more complicated to reach some men and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u107	Always. We will have to establish that, as long as there is no compulsory membership of such an association, I do not want to see that there will always be people who are not part of it. One of PROUD's predecessors, The Red Thread, had a very explicit commitment towards Eastern European women. They also employed people who spoke the language. That organization just made that connection. I don't know how PROUD does that because I haven't spoken to PROUD yet. I do not know how much contact PROUD has with Eastern European women. Meanwhile, the information comes to me that this is the case. I would advise Mr Segers to speak to PROUD himself. In the light of the legislative proposals he has put forward, that seems appropriate to me. I assume he did, too. I see enthusiasm in the gallery, Mr President, so this question too will be dealt with directly by Mr Segers with PROUD. It goes without saying that I am assuming that I will see that for myself, Mr PROUD is doing her best to have contact with specific groups that may otherwise be difficult to reach. I am thinking here of Eastern European women, and indeed of men, but also of men and women from South America and other countries; there are, of course, many examples of this. We'd like to have contact with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u108	I saw some friendly people waving in the stands. That goes back to a conversation I did have. So the conversation takes place. I really recommend that the Minister also speak with other organisations, such as Fier Fryslân, who have a very good view of the enormous variation within the industry. It's really too short to say "I have a conversation with one club and that's it." So really an encouragement on my part to look wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u109	I never said I wasn't speaking to Fier Fryslaan. I am very familiar with the work of Fier Fryslân. I've been there a lot as a Member of Parliament. You will understand that with all the projects we do together with Fier Fryslân, there are quite a few projects that we also finance together, my department has almost daily contact with Fier Fryslân. This also applies to many other institutions. Mr Segers really does not have to worry about that. I come to Mrs Kooiman's question on the Chamber of Commerce. I think it is very important that I answer it, because it is good news for the prostitution industry. Following the signal from the municipality of Amsterdam, my colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, has come up with a very practical solution for protecting the privacy of prostitutes. Because of the special nature of the profession and the interests of the privacy and security of prostitutes, the denominator prostitute is no longer included in the description of the activities in the Trade Register. As a result, they can no longer be found under this activity indication, if they want to, because they can still choose this indication. The Chamber of Commerce also makes it easier for prostitutes to protect their home address. I will also include this point in my discussions with PROUD to check whether this is actually experienced and developed in practice. Mrs Volp asked: how do we prevent the RUPS from being a return? I would point out to Mrs Volp that we have had extensive research carried out into the effectiveness of the exit programmes. I remember that it is not successful in all cases. That had a number of reasons. The report was published several years ago. I haven't read it since it's not directly related to this bill. For example, I remember that the differences between a benefit and the income from prostitution activities are so large that some people choose to go back because they are used to a certain income. I do not think we can prevent that, we must be realistic in that. We just did that evaluation to find out what we needed to do better. We now have a new experience with a new programme, thanks to Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers, I say out of my mind. It seems to me that we will continue to guarantee the objectives of RUPS after the end of the scheme. There is a lot of work being done on this guarantee, so that successful methods can make it. That will have to be done by the municipality, because that is where the exit programmes are being organized, as agreed. Mrs Volp continued to ask about the social situation. I've already talked about that in detail. There is a policy framework for banks, I say to her. Prostitutes and operators at banks is an initiative of the mayor of Amsterdam. The product will be available soon. The aim is to provide good information in order to reduce experienced problems with financial services. I myself spoke about it with the President of the Dutch Association of Banks. I will also involve this in the discussions with, among other things, PROUD, to see where further steps should be taken in the context of the implementation of the Wrp. Then I come to the other questions, the second last block. The last block is the discussion of the amendments. If I keep this up, we'll be done before last night. That's too bad, because I wanted to set a record: twice in a row...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u110	I wouldn't cheer too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u111	... twice in a row until after 00:30 in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u112	This is almost entrapment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u113	You shouldn't give me more than two AO's, Mr. Chairman. That just doesn't fit in a day. However, I am always in favour of a plenary debate. Mr Segers asked what the criminal consequences are for the owner of an illegal prostitution company. This is an independent criminal offence under the Law on Economic Crimes under Article 32 of the Wrp. If there is exploitation, there can of course be persecution on the basis of trafficking in human beings, but Mr Segers knows that even better than I do. Mr Segers has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the driving school. We've established that it prevents a service from being provided in exchange for sex, but it's not a shave. I think it's a good thing this isn't a sledgehammer. When two adults enter into a one-off service agreement in exchange for sex, the sex provider is not immediately a prostitute. I explained that to Mr Segers. The definition of prostitution according to the Wrp is making itself available with a structural character. A one-off provision in exchange for any service is not a criminal act under the Wrp. As undesirable as we think it is, there is no way to limit it. Mr Segers also spoke about the evaluation. He asked if the customer would be given a role in the evaluation. Yeah, as far as I'm concerned, he's getting an important role in that. It runs together with the evaluation of the initiative law for the criminalisation of abuse of prostitutes. The customer will undoubtedly play an important role in this too, I guess. Mr Van der Staaij has asked a question about webcam sex. I couldn't quite make the link with the Law regulation prostitution, but it's there in Mr Van der Staaij's experience, so I'll answer the question. Complaints about advertising may be submitted to the Advertising Code Commission. It assesses whether the advertising is contrary to the law, the good taste and the decency. In 96% of cases, statements by this committee are followed. As far as the government is concerned, therefore, it is not necessary to lay down additional rules for such advertising signs. I trust that, in consultation with advertisers, municipalities can prevent certain advertising in certain places. So it's up to the municipalities. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the pilot in Rotterdam in which buildings were taken over by the municipality. She asked me if I could tell you anything about that. Since 1 January 2015, municipalities have more opportunities to act against housing nuisance. This makes it easier for the municipality to take over the management of the property. I'm talking to congregations about the design of local prostitution policy. If there are best practices from Rotterdam, I will include them in my discussions, as I have already promised Mrs Kooiman. Mrs. Kooiman asked about the registration, the contact moments. I think we should also be very clear here for the Acts. There is no legal obligation to register. It is therefore not possible for municipalities to introduce a registration requirement themselves. Municipalities can try to build in contact moments with a voluntary character. This can be in the field work of the GGD, or in controls by supervisors. If you start working with an operator of the licensed part of the sector, an intake call can be part of the process. Mandatory contact moments for registration are not possible. If there are other possibilities within the relevant laws and regulations within the framework of the regulatory powers of municipalities, municipalities can do so in principle. We've already talked about transitional rights. There is a transitional period of one year, but from now on it is much more than a year. Mrs Kooiman asked: why didn't the Minister himself amend the criminality? I explained in the note why I did not do so, but I will respond in a moment to Mr Van Oosten's amendment. I share Mr van Oosten's view that sex workers should not be criminalised. For that reason, I removed the criminality of prostitutes under the age of 21 from the bill. Mr Van Oosten also asked why a local licensing system was not chosen. That is because there really is a need for national uniform rules for sex companies, as proposed in the Wrp. Municipalities also indicate that this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u114	The Minister agrees with me that sex workers should not be criminalised. My question, however, was a little bit different and looked more closely at the concerns of the sex workers themselves. Can the Minister take away those concerns from them, especially because he just felt the interference from the bleachers. When I read the pieces, I can tell that there are concerns that this law can have a criminalising effect. I would be happy if the Minister could say to the sex workers that this is not the intention of this bill. The purpose of this bill is to combat abuses occurring in that profession, but certainly not to make it de facto impossible and criminalise a legal profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u115	I can be brief about that. The answer is yes. That's exactly the purpose of the law. There is absolutely no criminalisation. For this reason, I also found it very important to remove this offence for under 21 years, because it could send the wrong message. This is without prejudice to differing views in society about the work of a prostitute, but the government certainly does not criminalise it. For the government, it is a legitimate, legal exercise of activities. Mr Van Oosten asked about the granting of licences. He asked if it is possible that you cannot exercise your profession if no permit is granted. That authorisation requirement shall apply only to the operator and not to the prostitute. Indeed, an operator may not be authorised. I'm sure there will be good reasons for that and we don't want to. So that's possible, but there are no obligations for a sex worker. It may carry out the work without prior authorisation or registration. Mrs Volp asked if I could make a prediction of the number of permitted sex devices after the entry into force of the Wrp. I can't. It is a fact that the number of permitted sex devices is falling. I do not rule out that this also has to do with the growth of supply over the Internet. In fact, I expect that to be the case. That has changed the whole of the umfeld, the whole industry, which is also evident from the research of the WODC. I therefore call for municipalities to provide sufficient space for sex workers to carry out their work in a safe and healthy environment. Mrs Volp mentioned the entry into the country in the event of corporate prostitution. I have tabled that letter of amendment so that there are no further misunderstandings about it. Mrs Volp also asked if there were any shift effects due to the zero option. It only applies to prostitution companies. Then the answer is yes. If there is a zero option used by a municipality in relation to a prostitution company and there is someone who wants to carry out a prostitution business, it will undoubtedly go to another municipality. There's no other way. However, the zero option does not apply to individual sex workers who are not subject to authorisation. Ms. Helder asked how supervisors could suspect the age of 21 years. There is no age limit for prostitutes, so there is no role for supervisors here. After all, prostitutes under the age of 21 are not punishable. However, there is an age limit for prostitutes employed or working within the framework of operators. In that case, the supervisor will simply have to come to the conclusion on the basis of the identity papers of a prostitute whether or not there is an age problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u116	The municipal supervisor must also check compliance with the permit. It is not only a question of checking whether an individual prostitute is 21 years of age, but also of verifying compliance with the licence by the operator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u117	That's right. On the basis of the law, the age limit of 21 years will be part of that permit. But there are a number of other conditions that we have explicitly regulated in the law. With all these conditions, we want to improve the position of prostitutes. The regulator will also have to supervise this, because if he does not, the law will not work. We agree on that. Mr. Chairman. I shall deal with the amendments. The amended Oskam amendment on item No. The aim of 10 is to ban pimps. I would point out that we have already had a few exchanges of views on this subject. Mr Oskam has drawn attention to this more often. The general line of the government in this amendment is that a pimp ban, on top of all the possibilities we already have in the law, is not desirable in practice. Why isn't it desirable? Due to the wording of the legal texts, it may result in a person providing legal prostitute services, such as taxi services, renting a space, getting food, and other services, being subject to the pimp's ban. That is absolutely not desirable. That is why I must not recommend this amendment. That can't be a surprise, because I've indicated that many times before. The amended Van Oosten/Swinkels amendment in part No. 16 provides that the criminalisation of the person committing sexual acts with a prostitute who has not yet reached the age of 21 and who offers services in the authorised circuit shall lapse on the basis of the underlying legislative proposal. I understand that amendment because it achieves two things. Firstly, it stresses the operator's obligation to ensure, in particular, that prostitutes to whom he gives an opportunity to prostitute are 21 years of age and older. Secondly, you can expect as a customer, because that rule is so, that it is okay in the licensed sector. I therefore understand the amendment along those lines and leave it to the Chamber for that reason. The Swinkels amendment in part No. 13 provides for an early evaluation. There are three reasons why I should not recommend this amendment. Firstly, I have just explained that there is a running-in period of one and a half years, one year of which is organised in the law itself. If we followed the amendment, an evaluation would take place after two years. Secondly, the evaluation should be careful and should be based on sufficient data. That will not be the case in those two years. Thirdly, we want the evaluation to be aligned with the legislative proposal that is still under discussion in the Chamber, which tackles the abuse of victims of trafficking in human beings. We can do that at once, because the same time limit has been used, namely five years. For these reasons, I do not recommend this amendment. The Van Toorenburg amendment to item No. 14 has far-reaching consequences. There are two reasons for this. First of all, the amendment aims to make it possible for the municipality of Amsterdam to do what it wishes to do, by still facilitating a form of registration. I would also like to express my appreciation for the need for Amsterdam. Secondly, the wording of this amendment gives a total exemption from all provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. Given the industry we are talking about, and given the importance of protecting the privacy of people working in the prostitution sector, I must also say in the direction of the public gallery, I must advise against this amendment. There is another third reason, namely that there is a legal obligation that you cannot regulate changes and no exemption from the Personal Data Protection Act without having the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. There's no advice. That's a formal reason. Even if there were, I wouldn't want to, because I really don't think it can be done this way, and I also told the municipality of Amsterdam. Then I come to Mr Van der Staaij's amendment, which stipulates that municipalities are obliged to adopt a policy vision on the possibilities of helping to end the work of prostitutes. There are two ways to look at that. I shall begin with a state-law argument. Assuming that municipalities have the freedom to take up and regulate these matters themselves, Mr Van der Staaij also attaches great importance to Thorbecke's house, as I know, it is strange that, as a state government, we impose an obligation on municipalities to implement that freedom of policy they have by amendment. That amendment doesn't tell you how to do that, but the amendment does tell you to do it. This means that, as a state government, we instruct municipalities to define a policy vision, while the logical way is for the city council to do so. That's a little unusual, I say. I see that Mr Van der Staaij agrees with me, but I see him thinking: the end justifies the means here. My guess is he's gonna tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u118	Perhaps it would be helpful if the Minister could finish his answer on the amendment, otherwise I would lose my interruption and be unable to respond to the second part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u119	For a moment I thought I had Mr van der Staaij on my hands, but that is not the case. The second point is that I do understand what he wants to achieve with that amendment. We consider it important that municipalities offer opportunities to offer exit programmes to prostitutes. This is also a responsibility of municipalities. They must therefore do so and also pursue policies in this area. I also say to Mr Van der Staaij that as a government, we instruct municipalities to implement something. That may be crazy in itself, but the simple fact that we are doing so justifies the objective that we consider to be very important, that all the municipalities are also able to think about how best to help people who want to get out of prostitution. This responsibility lies with the municipalities. We've run a program twice as a government to see how best to do it. We transfer these best practices to the municipalities. In that case, it is appropriate for the municipalities to take up this policy vision. For this reason, my advice is to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u120	I am glad that the Minister's opinion is ultimately positive. Perhaps it can help to establish, at the first, more constitutional point, that there are numerous laws in place which fully recognise the freedom of policy of the municipalities. People are reluctant about how, but municipalities are asked: if you have a job there, do something to establish that policy. We did that at the Social Support Act. There are also examples in the field of safety and the Public Health Act. I think there are countless laws in which this figure is very accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u121	That's right, I agree with you. I thought I should point out that it's not a law of Medes and Persians that we do it this way. The final argument to leave the judgment to the Chamber is that it is also in the interest of the purpose of this law. The aim is that we want to enable people to be prostitutes in the Netherlands in a sensible and responsible way, in order to exercise the legal profession of prostitute. That also means that it's appropriate, if someone doesn't want that anymore, to see how we can help get out of it, knowing that this is harder than from another legal profession, where you can make that switch much easier. For that reason, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I come to the last question, which is essential, from Mr Segers: does the Minister see the risk that the amendment of this novel could create a danger to the legislative proposal? Mrs Volp also pointed that out. I think there's a risk. We need to be very realistic about that. The First Chamber made use of the possibility of a novelle, otherwise the bill would not be accepted. The President also mentioned this at the beginning of this debate. It is not excluded that the First Chamber is not enthusiastic about the fact that there will be another novelle by amending it. If, in the opinion of the House of Representatives, it would be a better legislative proposal, then it is also up to the parties here to contact their colleagues on the other side and to say that they have made this choice, with good intentions, for the following reasons and that they count on being supported. If the bill is amended, I will, of course, perform my duties as an honour broker in the interests of the law, whether or not amended. Mr President, I came to the end of my reply in the first period. In the last two days, this has been almost my 27th hour of presence in your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u122	We are very grateful to you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u123	But I'm gonna stick around for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u124	It's late, but I'm gonna have to improve you a little. The First Chamber did not use the possibility of a novelle. The Minister offered it to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u125	It would actually have been more appropriate formally if I had spoken of the possibility for the Minister, in the absence of other parliamentary possibilities for the Upper Chamber, to offer her a novellle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u126	It's even better that way. It's gonna be a little late for all of us, but it's definitely gonna be a little late for the minister. So now we're dealing with a novelle. I am giving the Chamber the opportunity of holding a second term, but a short one. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u127	Mr. Chairman. A warm word of thanks to the Minister for his stamina and, of course, for all his answers to the many questions that have been asked. I regret the deterioration of this novelle compared to the previous legislative proposal. I am pleased with the good elements in it and I very much hope that they will reach the finish line in the First Chamber. I would like to thank the Minister for his willingness to defend that novelle, whatever its form. I have two more motions to read. The first is to monitor the evaluation after five years and reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legislative proposal Amendment of the Law on Prostitution and Combating Misleading Sex Sector includes an evaluation provision;]] [[calls on the Government to at least consider:]] [[the role of customers in the illegal and unauthorized sector in maintaining it;]] [[the absence of a national registration obligation;]] [[the extent to which municipalities, GGD, police and other stakeholders within the framework of this law are able to address abuses within home prostitution;]] [[the way in which municipalities can enforce and regulate and the effectiveness of municipal policies in the fight against abuses in the sex sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u128	My last motion concerns an earlier point, which I would like to raise again: the legal basis for the task of the military in the fight against trafficking in human beings. There is doubt about that. That doubt was expressed by our contacts at the D.A.'s office. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas according to research by Leiden University, the Royal Marechaussee sometimes runs against the limits of its powers;]] [[Whereas members Segers, Van Oosten, Volp, Oskam, Van Tongeren and Van der Staaij have previously asked questions about the adaptation of Article 4 (1) (g) of the Police Act to better reflect the competence of the Royal Marechaussee in relation to trafficking in human beings;]] [[whereas the Minister has discussed this matter with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the Royal Marechaussee, but this has not yet led to a solution;]] [[points out that it is desirable to better express the legal role of the Royal Marechaussee to combat trafficking in human beings;]] [[invites the Government to examine whether a legislative amendment is necessary, which should be prepared if necessary and to inform the Court before 1 September 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Volp and Mr Van Oosten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u129	Now I'm making a point, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u130	Mr. Chairman. We weren't quite convinced yet. We wanted to tighten up on certain points. I am pleased with the tightening up and I shall now briefly mention them. First of all, the question of home prostitution. I am now looking at the gallery. Today it has become clear that the individual prostitute is not a sex company within the meaning of the law, does not need a license within the meaning of the law, and that supervisors cannot just enter their own home. Secondly, I welcome the steps already taken by the Minister and the fact that he has made contact with Mayor Van der Laan on improving the social position of sex workers. That is a good example, which I hope will follow well in other municipalities. Thirdly, I welcome the Minister's sympathy for the amendment to remove the criminalisation of the customer in the authorised sector. Thirdly, I also welcome the fact that the Minister is sympathetic to the amendment to remove the criminalisation of the customer in the authorised sector. As a fourth point, I would like to propose to the Minister that the evaluation clause that I have proposed, as proposed by the Minister himself, be applied correctly with the initiative of my colleague, Mr Volp and others, which is now in the First Chamber and which has a three-year term. If the Minister did it that way, I think we'd figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u131	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Mr Van Oosten referred to the distant ancestor Van der Steur, who also took up this subject. I have once again looked at what Johannes van der Steur, if we are talking about the same thing, has done in the past. That's impressive indeed. Also in the Acts he returns regularly, both in 1892 and in the years after, as a respectable and distinguished man, who did have a lot of problems when he was trying to stop people from going to brothels. He did that by actively addressing people. He apparently had the gift of the word, because history shows that when the old Van der Steur spoke to people in the vein of "would you?"', Many of them did indeed cut it off. If I let it come to my mind, I suspect that Mr Van der Steur's ancestor would have recognized himself well in my speech today, and would have found the contribution of the present minister to be too liberal. Then to the content. I would like to table a motion on two subjects, first of all in the field of advertising. In fact, the Minister has hardly gone into that. These include advertising for webcam sex, but also for other companies. It is precisely this issue that makes you think: webcam sex is also, for example, a sex business within the meaning of this law. I ask the Minister to confirm that. That's how I understand it so far. There are also several provisions on advertising and advertising. Then there is the question of what the legal possibilities and opportunities are. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the protection of young people can be a good reason for imposing rules on advertising for sexual services in the public space;]] [[having noted that the Minister indicated that municipalities had the possibility to lay down rules on, inter alia, billboards and posters;]] [[considers that it is important for municipalities to clarify the possibilities for setting clear standards or specific requirements in the case of advertising signs and other advertisements to be authorised;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the possibilities for banning or regulating advertising and to inform the municipalities of the possibilities for framing advertising for companies in the sex sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas young people from the age of 16 have the opportunity to visit a prostitute;]] [[noting that, in the fight against trafficking in human beings, it is certainly desirable for visitors to be able to assess whether there is a legal situation and whether there are signs of trafficking in human beings, coercion or exploitation;]] [[considers that higher age limits are desirable;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how higher age limits can contribute to the fight against trafficking in human beings, coercion and exploitation in the prostitution sector and to come forward with proposals to raise the age limit and inform the Court of Justice of this by 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u132	Finally, I have a question about the amendment. I would like to thank the Minister for his positive assessment. I can imagine that here and there the idea may be that this might be problematic in view of the feasibility of this bill in the Upper House. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister on my assessment on this point that this does not belong to the category of subjects that we can expect from the legal process that this will cause problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u133	Does Mrs Van Tongeren need a second term? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u134	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a number of municipalities such as Groningen already require sex workers to register;]] [[calls on the government, in close consultation with the VNG municipalities, to refrain from introducing a registration requirement for sex workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas local prostitution policies should serve both the interests of sex workers and the security of society;]] [[Considering that the participation of sex workers in local prostitution policies leads to a better policy that serves the interests of the sex workers better and is therefore better supported;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into a discussion with the VNG on the establishment of a manual on how municipalities actively involve a representation of sex workers, whether sex workers working within the municipalities or united in one of the interest groups, in the development of local prostitution policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-21]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Volp, Kooiman and Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u135	I would also like to thank the Minister for his very clear answer, the clear expression of a number of uncertainties and also for his stamina.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs Van Toorenburg apologizes, but Mrs Kooiman needs a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u137	Mr. Chairman. It is late, so I shall confine myself to reading the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the deletion of the obligation to register also meant that the contact moment between sex worker and municipalities had been cancelled;]] [[Whereas such a contact moment has advantages in relation to information on, inter alia, rights, obligations, risks and assistance;]] [[Whereas the contact moment must now be achieved by the operator and municipal supervisors will still have to ensure compliance with it;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that information and information for sex workers is provided by municipalities and/or GGD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there could also be abuse and/or exploitation of sex workers by asking for unfairly high rents for living quarters;]] [[noting that the municipality of Utrecht has included in the general local regulation that, when submitting an application for authorisation for a sex establishment or escort company, a business plan should be submitted which includes, inter alia, the structure and the level of rental prices;]] [[calls on the Government to ask municipalities, in accordance with the example of the municipality of Utrecht, to make the authorisation conditional on clarification of the structure and level of rental prices,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-23]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u138	You see, it's a very friendly and sweet motion. Normally, I'm much more radical. The SP, of course, does its work in its municipalities, but it does call on the Minister to take his responsibility in doing so. Finally, my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Gasthuizen motion adopted (32211 No. 39) called on the government to ensure that adequate capacity and expertise are present in the police and municipal regulators to address the abuses in the sex sector;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a plan of action on the implementation of motion 32211 No. 39 and the Second and First Chambers to inform about this prior to the examination of bill 33885 in the Upper Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Swinkels and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u139	The questions in my last motion have not been answered by the Minister. It is actually an illogical motion, because I have been asking for some time to implement that motion. Because I would like to follow what the Minister is doing, I ask for a plan of action. That is also a very reasonable and friendly motion because there are still human trafficking issues on the table. The police are up to here at work. There's work to be done, so I'm putting the minister to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Van Oosten does not need a second term. Mrs. Volp does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u141	Mr President, as Mrs Van Tongeren said, it was only to thank this minister for his stamina. He appears not only to be a very efficient hurdler, but also to be a very gifted runner. It is good how clear he has clarified a number of important points once again today. I think this really contributes to the careful treatment that we needed here and which we will hopefully see in the Upper House. This can contribute to a positive final position of this Wrp. I have three motions, one of which is one of my colleague Van Toorenburg, so I ask for some coulance. It's almost done. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the basis of the Law on Prostitution and Combating Misuse of Sex Sectors, municipal regulations may provide that the practice of a prostitution company in the municipality is not authorised;]] [[considers that this zero policy could have a negative impact on the rights of sex workers;]] [[considers that a zero policy could have a negative impact on surrounding municipalities, e.g. the waterbed effect;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to establish a clear procedure which lays down conditions for the use of the zero option by municipalities, with a basis for the choice of the zero option and to inform the Court of Justice before the end of 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor and report annually to the Chamber on zero policy, taking into account the reasons and motivation of municipalities for zero policy and its impact on sex workers and other municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that a so-called barrier model was introduced in Amsterdam in 2012 in order to prevent the influx of vulnerable persons into the prostitution sector;]] [[Whereas sex workers whose self-reliance the operator had had doubts about after an intake interview should have been referred to the Advisory Team;]] [[whereas privacy rules had to adapt this methodology in 2014, where the processing of special personal data was stopped immediately;]] [[whereas the municipality of Amsterdam indicates that the Advisory Team has had little contact with sex workers since then and that this prevents vulnerable people from entering the industry from failing;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Municipality of Amsterdam to investigate how the Advisory Team can process the data needed to assess the self-reliance of sex workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Volp and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-26]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Volp and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u142	Then I have a rather technical motion. I would like to assure the Minister that I will immediately hold the motion if he can give me an undertaking on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current prostitution policy and the corresponding rights and obligations may vary considerably from one municipality to another;]] [[noting that the aim of the Law on Prostitution and Combating Misdemeanours in the Sex Sector is to partially harmonise the rules to be adopted by municipalities;]] [[Whereas the Association of Dutch Municipalities has developed a model regulation which, in anticipation of the Wrp, provides a handle to municipalities which are now determined to start the introduction or improvement of a municipal licensing system for sex companies;]] [[Whereas, following the introduction of the Wrp, this model will continue to have law-interpreting policy rules which make it possible to define a number of concepts;]] [[Whereas this clarification should be developed as far as possible at national or regional level in order to achieve the uniformity envisaged by the Wrp;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with the VNG on setting up a VNG working group to promote national or regional uniformity in the interpretation of concepts in the Wrp and to inform the Court of Justice about them by the end of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Volp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33885-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u143	Mr. Chairman. I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u144	No, you're way past your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u145	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u146	It's done now. I see that Mrs Helder does not need a second term. I would like to make the following comment. Honestly, I just don't think this is possible. We are discussing a novelle today; a promise made by the minister in the Upper Chamber. It is technically possible to table amendments to this, but that is highly unusual. Now you've filed 12 motions. I don't think that's possible. I won't allow any more interruptions. I'm waiting for the Minister to have all the motions. I am going to ensure that the debate is concluded today. I will give the Minister a brief opportunity to give his opinion on the motions. I shall suspend the sitting until all motions have been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u147	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u148	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the spokesmen for their second term contribution. It is a novel that can be submitted to the examination of a novel 12 motions. I have already heard the President say a few things about this. I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij for having once again included Johannes van der Steur in the Acts. He just sent me a picture of the old Acts. It was a pleasure to read that my far-fetched nephew, he is not a direct ancestor, but he is a family aggressor in a fight when storming a brothel to proclaim the good word there in the context of the Midnight broadcast. He's gonna be okay. He's gonna be okay later. He had gotten into such a difficult situation in the Netherlands that he went to the Dutch East Indies. In 1945 he was able to conclude his working life when he died with the title "father of 7,000 children." You can imagine he ended up okay. He received that title because he was the founder of the children's home Oranje-Nassau, where he was able to bring a total of 7,000 children to adulthood. Those children still unite, as far as they are alive, in the League of Old-Students. At the coming kumpulan here in The Hague they will hold another meeting. Johannes van der Steur was also against alcohol. We are not only far apart from each other because of political thinking, but also in other areas. It is a pity that the public gallery has now been emptied. I think this treatise would have been good at 11:15 p.m. So much for history. First, I will answer Mr Van der Staaij's question. I'm gonna say it carefully. Can a company such as webcamsex.nl or a company offering services such as webcamsex.nl be a licensed company within the meaning of the law? The answer is yes. Shows are subject to the legal provision. It is very doubtful whether those who enable these services are prostitutes within the meaning of the law. I don't think so. That will undoubtedly tell the future. In the motion in part No. 17 give Mr Segers and Mrs Van Toorenburg a number of guidelines for the evaluation after five years. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I would be happy to include those elements in that. In their motion in part No. 18 Mr Segers and others asked the government to examine the need for a legislative amendment, to prepare it and to inform the Chamber. I've already informed the Chamber on several occasions about the Royal Marechaussee. In the opinion of the Marechaussee, there is no reason to do anything about the law at this point. I would be happy to have another conversation with the Royal Marechaussee and inform the Chamber. I would therefore ask Mr Segers to hold the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u149	In particular, I would like to see a meeting with the D.A.'s office, because that is a matter of concern. The motion states the date of September 1st. If the Minister simply enters into the discussion and says that he will send a letter to the Chamber before 1 September in which he will inform, I think the motion can simply be adopted. Then the minister can just have the conversation as he just suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u150	I'd be happy to. A meeting with the state's attorney's office, that's fine. I would like to point out that 1 September is in the summer months. It may not be possible. Let me just say I'm sending that letter before October 1st. Then I'm sure that's okay. I would ask Mr Segers to confirm that he is holding on to that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u151	It can then simply be adopted if the Minister says that the Chamber will receive a letter for the budgetary procedure. The motion merely asks for a letter stating whether it is necessary and what the consultation has resulted in. If we can get that letter for the budgetary procedure, the motion can simply be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u152	Just as formal: the motion explicitly states the request to examine whether there is a need for a legislative amendment, to prepare it and to inform the Chamber before 1 September. That's what it says, and I'm not gonna do that. I'm gonna talk to the KMar and the D.A.'s office, and I'm gonna report on that before 1 October. That's really different from what it says here. If the Segers won't hold the motion, I can do two things. I can accept her in the interpretation as I have given her, or I must discourage her, because if she is not changed, she says something other than what I want to do. I would like to take care of that, even if it is almost 11:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u153	The intention of the motion is to see if it is necessary. If necessary, this legislative amendment may be prepared. Even if we don't have to, we'll get word about it anyway. Then I would like to amend the motion accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u154	I'm gonna put an end to this, because we didn't agree to this. The Minister would give an opinion on the motions. He gave an opinion on the motion and asked whether Mr Segers was prepared to hold it. That is not the case, so the Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u155	The motion says that if there's a need for a change of law, I have to prepare it. I think there's more in the motion than I can do. Then I'll have to dissuade her unless Mr Segers adjusts her. In that case, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Mr Segers can, of course, also arrest her. If she's not changed, I'm gonna advise her. I cannot do what is stated in the operative part of the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 19, by Mr Van der Staaij. It calls on the government to clarify the possibilities for combating or imposing rules on advertising and to inform the municipalities of the possibilities available. Although it may be about the sex sector, the advertising policy lies with the Minister of Economic Affairs. So I cannot judge this at the moment, because I cannot discuss it with my colleague at 11:30 p.m. Moreover, we have the system of the Advertising Code Commission, on which I have had an extensive exchange of views with Mr Van der Staaij. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Mr Van der Staaij's second motion, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution (Doc. We have debated this twice. I have indicated that the government has no plans for that, so I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 21 by Mrs Van Tongeren. There are two things in there that make things difficult. I have promised that there will be a process of careful implementation of the law. What it says here is that I have to keep the government away from the municipalities in good consultation with the VNG. I can't do what it says. I can't stop municipalities from doing something. Neither can the VNG. Municipalities have their own constitutional position in the Netherlands. I promised I'd start the conversation, but what it says here, I won't do. I can't help but dissuade the motion. However, Mrs van Tongeren does not have to be concerned about this, because I am going to do what she means. However, I do not do so in the way and with the consequences in this motion, because they cannot be governed by state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u156	The minister's right, he's gonna do what I really want. It's inconveniently written down, and I'm withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u157	Since the Van Tongeren/Swinkels motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u158	The motion in part No. 22 calls on the government to enter into talks with the VNG on how to draw up a guide to how all kinds of things are done. This means that I am acting contrary to the motion when I talk to the VNG, and the individual municipalities that are competent to do so do not want to come up with a manual. Because then I didn't carry out the motion. I cannot comply with the motion, despite the fact that I very much like talking to municipalities in the context of the implementation process. I have no powers to tell municipalities to do anything, let alone the UNG. That is the wording of the motion. I would like to say to Mrs Volp that I, uh, or was Mrs Van Tongeren's motion? I'm just confused. I apologize for this. I ask Mrs Van Tongeren to withdraw the motion; I am going to do what I have agreed. It could be a manual, but it could be another way. It is clear that the law must be implemented carefully, including by the municipalities. I will, of course, see to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u159	What if I add the word "try" to the operative part? I would like the Minister to have the Chamber give a ruling on this if he wants to do it anyway. It's very nice for the industry to have a motion on this. In the text, I want to replace the commitment by the word 'try'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u160	If Mrs Van Tongeren does so, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on condition that the motion is changed. At the motion in part No. 23, in a way, the same thing happens. The motion calls on the government to ensure that information and information for sex workers is provided by municipalities and/or GGD. I can't take care of that, only the municipality itself can. We have the SP groups to take care of that in the municipalities. I am, of course, willing to do so, bearing in mind what I have promised to do carefully in the implementation process. The information aspect is part of this, but I cannot carry out this motion in this way. I would advise Mrs. Kooiman to withdraw the motion, otherwise I would have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u161	I'll hold the motion. The Minister has made a commitment, and I will keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u162	At the request of Mrs Kooiman, I propose her motion (33885, No. 23). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u163	Mrs Kooiman's motion in part No. 24 asks the government to ask municipalities to make a condition for the granting of permits, in accordance with the example of the municipality of Utrecht. That's not how it works in the government. I can't ask the municipalities to do things, only the city council can do that. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. For the motion in part No. 25 is the same, but something else. Mrs. Kooiman says I'm going to file a motion that you have to make before the Senate vote on the bill. It can't be. I can't make a plan of action and implement an implementation process until it's been voted on in the First Chamber. It has not been said at all that this is going to happen and that it will end in a positive way. I've agreed to start an implementation process. There are also the elements that Mrs Kooiman is referring to, but I cannot leave a motion to the House's opinion now based on a situation which may not be achieved. That's why I have to discourage the motion. In general, the question arises as to why a motion should be made at every point in the implementation process if you have undertaken to carry out the implementation process. That may not be necessary at all, sometimes you can trust the government in something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u164	Since the Minister does not carry out motions, I have tabled these motions. I am holding this motion because it is indeed a good thing to have the First Chamber hold the debate first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u165	At the request of Mrs Kooiman, I propose her motion (33885, No. 25). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u166	I come to Mrs Volp's motion on item No. 26, in which the government is requested to reach a clear procedure in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities which lays down conditions for the use of the zero option by municipalities which underpins the choice of the zero option. That first element is a municipal authority. That's just the city council, not the government. Furthermore, it is requested to monitor and report annually to the Court of Auditors on zero policies. I think that's really going too far. I understand very well what Mrs Volp means by the motion, but I must nevertheless discourage the motion, given the problem. That does not apply to the motion in part No. 27, which I understand Mrs Volp has also tabled on behalf of Mrs Van Toorenburg. I am willing to engage with the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the municipality of Amsterdam. In my view, this should be a discussion between the authority and the municipality of Amsterdam on this point. I would like to encourage and facilitate this, but on condition that the amendment is withdrawn. I can't do both. It cannot be that there is an amendment that may be adopted and that I am being asked to do something at the same time in a motion. So it's either one or the other. I strongly dissuade the amendment because of its far-reaching consequences. What is being asked in the motion, I am happy to do so. So if Mrs Volp is prepared to let Mrs Van Toorenburg arrange for her to withdraw the amendment, then I would like to leave this motion to the House's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u167	I have indeed been told by Mrs Van Toorenburg that if there was a positive opinion on this motion, she would indeed look at the deletion of the amendment. So I'm assuming that's how it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u168	I note that Mrs Volp's amendment by Mrs Van Toorenburg to item No. 14 has withdrawn... but it can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u169	What you're doing now seems to me to be a fascinating novel, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u170	Good. I propose that Mrs Volp ask Mrs Van Toorenburg if she is prepared to take the amendment to item No. 14 to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u171	I regret that we found out in good time that this would be a novel, Mr President. In my view, this could be a very nice, stimulating system whereby Members of Parliament could withdraw amendments from other Members. Perhaps that would enliven the debate very much. Allow me to say this; it's only 11:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u172	Yes, especially if a coalition member could withdraw an amendment from a member of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u173	That's right, Mr. Chairman. That's right. The other way around, of course, it could be. That would be a very good idea, but I would like to leave it to the House to decide. I'm coming to the last motion, part number one. 28. As Mrs Volp said, my main aim is to ensure that these elements are included in the implementation plan. I'm willing to do that. I understand that Mrs Volp will then hold the motion. Of course, I note that if the bill does not pass through the First Chamber, that will also be the end of the implementation plan. If it is accepted, I will be happy to proceed with this motion. I am also counting on Mrs Volp's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u174	The latter is almost entrapment. We are doing our utmost not to influence our colleagues in the First Chamber. However, I had already said that I assumed that the Minister could undertake this. So I'm withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u175	Since the Volp motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u176	This brings me to the conclusion of the examination of this bill. I note that after five years of talks about... No, I see that Mr Van der Staaij wants to ask another question. After he has asked his question, I am going to end my speech glowfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u177	Yes, because I would be sorry to have to ask another question after a glowing conclusion to the Minister's speech. So I'd rather ask it now. In my second term, I asked a question about the amendment. Ah, I see the Minister already remembers the question. Then I don't have to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u178	Yeah, that's true. I forgot to answer that question. Sorry about that. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether I expected his amendment, which he tabled and which I said I would leave it to the Chamber, to be a problem in the Upper Chamber. That's a good question to ask the Minister. I'm sometimes surprised at what problems are and what aren't problems in the Supreme Court. So I can't say anything meaningful about it. I personally believe that this element is relatively small. The only thing I can come up with is that constitutional element, but Mr Van der Staaij also said that you can think differently about it. I don't think there's a chance that that's gonna be a problem. However, I cannot look into the bosom of the First Chamber. I'm getting to my lock. I would like to thank Members for what I think was a special way forward. It took us five years to bring to a successful conclusion a bill, which started with very good intentions, on which we have debated fiercely and on which there are incredibly many different opinions within the Chamber, with a novelle. We shall see how that across the street, if I may speak in your jargon, will be prosecuted. I am very hopeful that, with the changes that may be made, we will have come up with a balanced legislative proposal which will take account of the position of prostitutes and ensure the guarantees that we consider important to combat abuses. I hope that, after five years of evaluation, we can see that we have taken the right steps here tonight in the Lower House and later in the Upper House to do justice to the interests of the people we are trying to protect. Thank you very much for your cooperation and for the 28 hours in the last two days when I have had the opportunity to be in the debate with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-15.u179	I thank the Minister and all the others present. I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the law, the amendments and the motions. I wish you all a good and safe journey home.
