ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u1	Both directors have been asked to come to the Chamber for this debate in the short term. We are very grateful to them for their presence and welcome them. The speaking time shall be four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, thank you. Amis français honorés, nous avons une grande confiance dans notre coopération, mais en vérité, je vous le dis: le Parlemente néerlandais ne permettra pas que le holding Air France/KLM érode KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. KLM's network is very important for Schiphol, and Schiphol is important for BV Nederland. There is a national interest that we stand for and on which we want to address the cabinet today. This applies not only to the CDA, because the PVV, Mr Graus, has been worried about this for a long time. The same applies to Mr Elias, Mrs Belhaj, Mr Monasch and Mr Smaling. That's not something specific for one party. The following agreements were made in May and November 2015. KLM and Air France should both grow independently and no KLM business lines from Amstelveen would be transferred to the holding company in Paris. The CDA attaches great importance to these agreements, and the cabinet must let it know in Paris that it attaches great importance to them. Now that the new director has started with the holding company, it seems that new laws will apply. The CDA believes that the agreements made should be respected. Transferring the maintenance part of KLM, the jobs to the aircraft, to the holding makes it impossible for KLM to function fully later. The CDA can't let that happen. The transfer of well-run business lines from KLM to less efficient operating parts in Paris ultimately leads to the liquidation of the holding company. The holding company seems to want to move to one airline under one holding company, but the CDA wants two carriers under one holding company, as is the case now. The Juniac, the previous director, said last year in the Volkskrant: if it is necessary in the future to transfer functions, we will just talk about it again. In that sense, he was very honest. The Frenchman Gagey, top man of Air France and evenknie of Pieter Elbers, has now been sidelined and the leadership of Air France has been taken over by Jean-Marc Janaillac, the major director of the holding company. And that is actually a very transparent measure of further centralization. For KLM it would mean that she would lose some of her remaining independence and become a so-called operating carrier. KLM's network will be eroded and the power of Schiphol will be reduced to an airport as we know so many in Europe. In order to safeguard that national interest, I made my maiden speech, for which I am speaking today on behalf of my group, and for that interest I am also fighting tomorrow. Janaillac is now working on a new strategy, Trust Together, which will be presented in early November. The board meeting is on Wednesday and the public presentation is scheduled on Thursday. What is the view of the Minister and the Secretary of State on the suggestion that it is primarily intended to please and keep the French trade unions calm, because the French Government does not want social unrest so close to the elections? Does the Cabinet have knowledge of the new plans for an adapted governance and shareholder structure? Is the cabinet involved in the plan and, if not, why not? High officials in Paris have reported to De Telegraaf what is in their sources. However, it is still important that the press in France report this shift. After previous changes at Air France-KLM, we know that these newspapers are generally very well informed and that there are certainly no gossip, just like there are no gossip about this in De Telegraaf. As far as the CDA is concerned, Dutch politics would do well to determine its position now in case Janaillac wants to leave the concept of "one company two airlines" soon. That is English for one holding company and two airlines if holding is at least a Dutch word. What happens if Wednesday it is established that the maintenance part of KLM does go to the holding company? Then we're too late. We must already make demands on the route network, the position of Schiphol and the economic importance. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. What are we asking the cabinet for? We ask the Cabinet to reconfirm last year's agreements, namely that Air France and KLM will continue to operate as two airlines under one holding company. Both are allowed to grow and no business lines are transferred from KLM to the holding company. Will the Minister and the Secretary of State be prepared to ask for this confirmation in the interest of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Graus, I saw you get up earlier. Were you going to ask a question and, if so, would you like to ask it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u5	No, Mr. Chairman. I did not have a substantive question, but I just wanted to ask Mr Van Helvert if he could translate that French literally. Mr Elias has difficulty understanding foreign languages. As Vice-President, he always insists that we do not use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u6	We know Mr Elias as a great connoisseur of the French language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u7	From French wine, you mean. He is indeed a great connoisseur of French wine!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u8	No, the French language!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance. There are indeed speculations in the media. In fact, I take from De Telegraaf several factual inaccuracies, for example that Mr Van Helvert has requested this debate, because that was me. Moreover, there were more factual inaccuracies in it. Speculations in the media were also cited in the letter we received from the government. But in general, the French media are not wrong. We have, of course, already experienced something in recent years, and I would like to mention that. First there was the attempt at a coup with the KLM cash. That's all happened. We have been through Transavia, with our multiamorous stewardesses; I must not think about it, we must all preserve that for the Netherlands! But there is also a possible new coup attempt, which we want to avoid. You read it everywhere, on Twitter, on the social media, from various people. Perhaps there's less going on than we suspect. But we are members of the States-General, and we must prevent us from following up on the facts immediately. I have spent two and a half years on the De Wit Committee, and I have always planned that I will never sit in front of such a committee of inquiry with a wet buttock and that it will not happen to me that I have not done everything I can to prevent anything. That's what I want to do now. Our concern is the confirmation and confirmation of May 2015 and November 2015 that there will be no further centralisation; so no further transfer of KLM parts to the Air France holding in Paris. I want a guarantee for that. I would prefer the Secretary of State to be able to arrange this properly, because she is man enough to fly to Paris for 2 November and before the announcement, which may take place on 3 November, to share in person our concerns and the messages we give. This is how it works: the French are sensitive to this political and diplomatic pressure. It is also a good thing that they still have that respect for the Dutch. The Secretary of State can do that. Promise me, I will tell her that you will do so personally and that you will convey that message. The letter we received from the government a few hours ago says: "The cabinet sees it as its task to continue to look closely at the further development of the plans." But that doesn't help us. I want the government, particularly the Secretary of State for Aviation, to be proactive, also as a shareholder, because we are also shareholders. We consider the 5.9% to be too little. We believe that we must have at least as many shares as the French, equal power and strength. It's just that the Chamber isn't ripe for that. Unfortunately, my requests are not supported. I am not going to retable it now. I'm waiting for a possible new chamber composition. We want a guarantee from the Secretary of State, not in a memorandum of understanding, as it is called. After all, we know that MoU's butter is soft and that it really doesn't do you any good. The chairman knows that too; I think she was on the De Wit committee with me. That was one of the conclusions that we drew as De Wit Committee. We want a tough "state" guarantee instead of such a soft memorandum or understanding. We want this guarantee to say that there are no transfers of KLM components to the holding company in Paris. The neighbor of the Secretary of State in trade union K, the Minister of Finance, also said that he attaches great importance to KLM's independent position. Then guarantee us that, too. If the Secretary of State can guarantee that and sends that message to Paris, we may not have to make any motions. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you very much. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Elias, whom I know he will not use the word 'holding' but simply the word 'group'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u11	Or holding company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u12	Or holding company. Go ahead, Mr. Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u13	Madam President, on behalf of the VVD Group, thank you very much for the speed with which this debate on the worrying developments in our KLM could be put on the agenda. After all, a lot has been said and written about Air France-KLM in recent days, and this is right to cause great concern to the thousands of Dutch people who depend directly and the hundreds of thousands who indirectly depend on KLM for their job. For the VVD there is every reason to want to talk about this as soon as possible with the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Aviation, to put it briefly. "Air France a besoin de sang neuf." "Le nouveau plan strategique d'Air France-KLM a un nom: Trust Together'. "Le PDG d'Air France sacrifié pour restorer la confiance'. I'll translate: there's a new strategic plan for Air France, Air France needs fresh blood and the boss of Air France has been sacrificed to restore confidence. Friend and enemy now agree that a reorganisation is much needed and should have taken place years ago. Air France-KLM has determined higher costs than its competitors. This is no longer sustainable in order to survive in today's competitive aviation world. The company will have to renew and reorganize. If we have to believe the news that has become available in the Dutch media, the fresh blood for Air France, about which we have just spoken, may come from the KLM in the eyes of the French. Perhaps the term "together" used by Paris means that KLM departments could disappear to Paris. For KLM, for Schiphol and therefore for the Netherlands too, the essential concept of one company with two independent air carriers should not be abandoned. This would have major negative consequences for KLM's growth in the longer term, for Dutch jobs and for agreements on landing rights. In addition, it would be in direct contradiction with the commitment of then President-Director De Juniac. The letter from the Cabinet dated 13 March 2015 states that there will be no further centralisation of KLM activities and business lines to the Air France-KLM holding company and that there will be no transfer of jobs from the KLM headquarters in Amstelveen to the headquarters of Air France-KLM in Paris. It was also reconfirmed that KLM conducts independent financial management. In this way, the words of top man De Juniac were represented by the cabinet in the letter I mentioned. Tonight's letter says, homely said, that the rulers will be on top of it. That is good, but I would rather hear from the rulers, the Minister of Finance, first of all, that they can reconfirm today the principles set out in the letter sent to us on 13 March 2015. If they can't do that, I'd like to hear where they can't do that. I would also like to hear whether the Secretary of State and the Minister agree with the VVD Group that any worrying developments in which work and landing rights would flow towards Paris are not good for the Netherlands and are also very contrary to existing agreements. How does the Minister of Finance assess the memorandum of understanding signed in 2010 by Minister Eurlings from the Balkenende cabinet he was not yet a KLM leader at that time? This can be simply and unilaterally cancelled by Air France, which would mean that all existing guarantees would be cancelled. That memo is from May 25, 2010. If there is any truth in these reports, the French publicity is very strong. Will the Minister and the Secretary of State do everything in their power to prevent it from going wrong through their political lines with France? France stands for elections and there is a willingness to go far in terms of employment in that country. In this context, I would like to recall how early this month, the closure of Alstom's train factory in Belfort was prevented by an early order of EUR 700 million for 15 new TGV trains, described in the French media as baroque and costly. Air France and KLM will have to reorganise, rather yesterday than today. But it is unacceptable for the VVD if French growth is at the expense of existing agreements and the employment of so many Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we can have this debate quickly. I thank the rulers for their swift response to the distress call from this Chamber. It is not the first time we have been here to debate this issue. We would, of course, like to see the agreements that have ever been made have a somewhat longer duration than they seem to be at present. Instead of "Trust Together," you would need a title in the vein of "Non, non, rien n'a change, tout, tout a continué." Then you just know that what was once agreed has a very long term. After all, that is the essential question why we are here again: how hard is what has ever been agreed? The letter of 13 March 2015, signed by the previous Secretary of State, is ready to go. It states: "The president-director of Air France-KLM has confirmed that there will be no further centralisation of KLM activities and business lines to the Air France-KLM holding in Paris. He indicated that no jobs would be transferred from the KLM headquarters in Amstelveen to the headquarters of Air France-KLM in Paris. It has also been reconfirmed that KLM holds independent financial management." Is the crux in the fact that this was the previous top guy and that we are now another top guy or maybe even two top guys? Is continuity at stake because top men want to make their own mark on the nature of the holding company and the balance between the participants? Is that the point? As Mr Graus said, we have been here many times. We stood here in 2011, we stood here when 1 billion had to leave the reserves to France, we stood here around Transavia. We just want a year without having to hold a debate on the Air France-KLM holding. So my question is actually the same as that of my colleagues. We want clarity, security and continuity for KLM within that holding company. I know that the rulers can only promise this to a certain extent, but I want to know what they are going to do. The deadline is November 2. That's a week. So we really need to act quickly, because otherwise things are not going well. In that respect, I would like to say a few words about the letter we received today. At the bottom of page 1, it says: "It is important to us that KLM, within the Air France-KLM group, holds a sufficiently independent position." That word "sufficient" gives me a bit of the creeps. What is enough for these rulers? On the page after that KLM should continue on the path of cost savings and productivity gains. Then, as far as the government is concerned, KLM will have room for further growth in the future. I cannot relate this passage so well to the subject we are discussing today. I don't see how one depends on the other either. That is what I wanted to add to my speech. This is what I wanted to leave it at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the hope that this debate will make a positive contribution to the discussion on the future of Air France-KLM that is currently playing. It is clear that this is a very sensitive process. We must be careful that we in the Chamber are not unintentionally throwing our own glasses in. As far as D66 is concerned, the primary responsibility for the company's course lies with the company itself. This is without prejudice to the fact that D66 also sees a role for the cabinet to protect the Dutch interest against French colleagues through the political and diplomatic channels. In addition, the State is, of course, a shareholder. In this area, too, D66 expects a proactive attitude from this cabinet. At the same time, we all know that there is no formal new plan and that pressure must now be put on behind the scenes. I hope that the signals that are being sent out here today will help the Secretary of State to exert that pressure. The previous speakers have already discussed in detail the importance of an independent KLM, including for the network quality of Schiphol. I'm not gonna try to outdo them in there. I don't think this is necessary either. This interest is widely shared in this Chamber. I would like to add a few questions. D66 also insists that the agreements made for the sake of the Dutch interest are actually respected, first of all last year's agreements: no further centralisation of KLM activities and KLM business lines in Paris, no transfer of jobs to Paris. KLM holds independent financial management and the Dutch foundation with shares remains in place. In addition, the agreements on the 2010 state guarantees must be complied with. Can the Cabinet indicate whether these commitments and agreements have been reconfirmed by the Air France-KLM summit? What steps did the cabinet take between the moment just before the summer recess when the cabinet for the first time responded to the signals that the weather was messing with the holding company, and last week, when the newspapers were once again full of worrying rumours? In the meantime, what did the cabinet do as an active shareholder and as a political actor towards French colleagues? If the cabinet saw all this coming, how is it that this Chamber is actually being surprised again and that we are now in the middle of an urgent debate? I hope that the cabinet will hear the concerns of the Chamber and, in the best case scenario, will be able to fully remove them or, in the worst case, will convey them loud and clear to the new Air France-KLM summit. Besides, I'm leaving it for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is concerned only with one thing: no sale of KLM. No sale of KLM, but we're back here. It doesn't stop; it doesn't stop. Every time, post-messaging. One of the top guys at Air France-KLM in Paris is barely in his seat yet, or the next one's gonna start again. Fortunately, this cabinet also went straight to Paris when the new Secretary of State took office to clearly indicate the interests for KLM and for the Netherlands, not without success. KLM's getting better, even though we're not there yet. There is also profitability again, so in this respect the government has made it clear both in Paris and to the KLM that the necessary has to be done. We are now at an important point in French-Dutch cooperation. The new top man, Janaillac, will present his strategy Trust together in the coming week, at the board meeting of November 2. On 3 November, what has been decided will be made known to the world. If we have to believe the media, we need to be full-bodied in order to highlight the Dutch interests and the fight against sales and to make it clear where we stand. There are reports that 50% of the flights and that fantastic Engineering & Maintenance department are being transferred from Schiphol East to Paris and that there is a centralisation. We don't know. The messages fly through the ether, but that's the big problem: it doesn't stop. My colleagues have already said it: it goes on and on. In addition, the top manager of the holding company, Janaillac, would like to take part in KLM's structure. Can the Minister or the Secretary of State respond to this? Is that right? How does he see if she's planning to do that? Is that a sign of trust or an example of Paris taking over? What do the Minister and the Secretary of State really know about the plan presented next week? Do they know the agenda for the Paris meeting? Has there been any contact with the board members of the holding company about the outline of the plan? Is that beautiful department of Engineering & Maintenance staying in the Netherlands, for example? In short: can the cabinet indicate what it knows about the plans? Is the cabinet prepared to inform the Chamber before the meeting on 2 November, for which the plans are, I believe, well known? These are the crucial questions of my group. KLM must not be sold out. I come to the conclusion of this plan. Is the Dutch government as shareholder of KLM involved in Trust Together's plans? After all, in the French media it is also stated that the French unions are at the table, but that, for example, the Dutch unions have not been invited. Who then defends the Dutch interests? So it is the French trade unions, not the Dutch trade unions and the French state. Is the Dutch State also involved in drawing up these plans? Surely there can be influence on the French side alone? How does the cabinet view that the French employees are in the shareholders' meeting and the Dutch are not? Shouldn't that be corrected so that Dutch workers also get a place at that table? We have agreed here with the Minister and the Secretary of State on the distribution within Air France-KLM. Nothing would be centralised and no flights or jobs would be transferred. The cabinet made these arrangements with the then government. I now urge the directors to reaffirm these agreements to the Chamber on the eve of the presentation of the new Trust Together plan. "Trust together" means "confidence." Trust can only be built up if we can build on past agreements, including with the new leadership in Paris. Hence my final question: can the cabinet trust this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u17	Both regiments have requested a short suspension of five minutes, so I shall suspend the sitting until 9:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. Before going into the very precise questions of the Chamber, I would like to make a few general comments. We are gathered here again today to talk about the importance of our blue bird, so I always call it very flat, which we all love. It is quite clear that the Chamber is doing so and that we are doing so in the Netherlands. The cabinet is on the same side as your Chamber. The interests surrounding KLM for our economy and employment are therefore at the forefront of our actions. I hope that the answers to the questions put by the Chamber will also show us how we are trying to achieve this. In July the new CEO Janaillac joined Air France-KLM. As mentioned above, under his leadership, a new strategic plan, Trust Together, complements the existing Strategic Plan Perform 2020. It has indeed been announced that this plan will be presented at the beginning of November next week. In today's letter to the Chamber there was already a lot about it: recent reports have been published with speculations about the departure of the current CEO of Air France, about his succession and what this could mean for KLM and for KLM's supervisory board, for example. As stated in the letter, we understand, of course, that this type of media coverage led to concern in the Netherlands and in the Chamber. After all, KLM and KLM's network are very important, as I said just now. I also understand very well that the Chamber wants to know what it looks like now, what is going on with these plans and what is in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u19	I thought I'd wait for your introductory remarks, but Mrs Belhaj already has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u20	That's right. It concerns the general communication on Trust Together and the letter sent today. We did receive a letter for the summer recess. We then asked if the Secretary of State would like to communicate proactively. That is why I have a question already. When did the Secretary of State know about the Trust Together plan that would come?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u21	I shall now turn to Mrs Belhaj's question. It's just down the pile. I will also say something about what has been done between summer and now. We can always count on proactive action by the Chamber, I say, to cast a shadow over the answer. There are reports and speculations, but an important objective of the Trust Together plan is, of course, to create confidence in each other, and Mr Janaillac must also be given the space to develop and discuss his plans. That means it's hard for us to say a lot about that before they're presented. At present, statements by the cabinet would not contribute to a successful and broadly supported development of a new strategy. It is important to note that it is a listed company that makes its own plans. Mrs Belhaj and Mr Elias have also said so, but the Cabinet sees it as its task to keep a close eye on these further developments. The cabinet is therefore committed to highlighting the public interest involved in KLM. The cabinet is well-connected and maintains contacts with KLM and Air France-KLM at all levels. I will say something about this in a moment and the Minister will go into it a little more in detail. It is one group, formed by two major network airlines, two hubs. Important for us is that KLM holds a sufficiently independent position within the Air France-KLM group. I shall now turn to the question of what'sufficient' means in any case. We have also left no doubt that, in order to cope with global competition, it is important for the whole company Air France-KLM to reduce costs and increase productivity. Because, in the end, the Minister has said that in a previous debate and I would like to repeat this, the biggest problem for this company is not in the company, but outside the company, because of competition from the Gulf States and other parts of the world. Now I would like to answer the precise questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u22	Before you do that, I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u23	The Secretary of State says that the new director of the holding company should be given the space to discuss and roll out the new plans. That sounds good, but it's just a question of what those plans are. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that if a plan turns out to be Wednesday to remove the maintenance part from KLM, we should not allow Mr Janaillac to discuss and roll out this at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u24	I have always said that the starting points of the March letter were the starting point. Mr Van Helvert asked me whether I would like to reconfirm that. That seems strategically the least sensible option. Because I'm assuming those appointments are in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u25	We all have that hope, but the question is whether they are indeed standing. That's why we're here together. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that waiting in the hope that they will still be with the new Director is a little thin, given the importance of the whole situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u26	Then I'd like to say something about what we've done in the meantime. I hadn't gotten to that yet. As has been said, pro-activity is the starting point. We have been in contact with Mr Janaillac several times. He's well aware of what we agreed earlier. There was a discussion yesterday between the Minister and Mr Janaillac. The Minister's gonna say something about that in a minute. My people also spoke with Mr Janaillac yesterday. Air France-KLM is a private party. The board makes the plans. Those are the proportions. It's a private enterprise. But we are following developments very closely. We're having conversations at all levels. It goes without saying that I also have regular contact with KLM's CEO and others to ensure that we stay informed. Mr Elias asked whether the principles of last March's letter could be reaffirmed. Yes, the agreements are still in place and the principles still apply. We made those arrangements. We're also assuming they're standing. In the contacts we have, of course, we have constantly brought this to our attention. Mrs Belhaj asked what happened in the period before the summer recess and after that. I think she refers to the letter of 13 June on developments at Air France-KLM. We state that we continue to point out to Air France-KLM the need to reduce costs, by the way, on both sides of the company, to put it at home. There is this need both at Air France and at KLM. This is and will continue to be the subject of discussion, including in our contacts with the company. This was also in line with the strategic plan Perform 2020, which also remains in place according to Air France-KLM. The new plan must then become a complement to it. Regular reference has been made here in the debate to the agreements made by my predecessor with Mr De Juniac in March 2015, including the maintenance of the financial management of KLM, the preservation of the Dutch foundations with KLM shares and the state guarantees. I travelled to Paris on the weekend after my arrival, in November 2015, and then these appointments were reconfirmed in a consultation with me. These agreements were not made in the personal capacity of Mr De Juniac. These are of course made with the company Air France-KLM. I therefore assume that these agreements are in place. We have had good discussions with Mr Janaillac, in which we have discussed Dutch interests and in which it has been shown that Mr Janaillac also knows what the Dutch interests are. We will, of course, continue to keep in close contact with the Air France-KLM and KLM summits to highlight these Dutch interests. But that is also important; I believe that Mr Elias used the word 'inner lines' for that. The point is that we cannot now provide much information from these calls, because that is information from a listed company. We can report our efforts here. That's what we do here. When I listen to the Chamber in this way, we agree on this, but that means that we cannot now in all cases anticipate the outcome. I would like to end my speech with Mr Smaling's point. He said, "sufficient certainty" all sounds nice, but then what is that? We have always said that KLM is part of a holding company. That's why you can't say there's complete independence. They are part of that holding company, but'sufficient independence' means that our public interests remain secure. It is important to consider, among other things, the possibility of taking own investment decisions and maintaining network quality. Those are the key concepts that we are talking about. I hope I have been able to show that our commitment is equal to what the Chamber is asking us to do. That is all we can say at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u27	Before I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, there are a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u28	We pull the same rope, at least on the same side of it. That's fine. It's the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u29	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u30	It matters. But just for precision. The Secretary of State says: "We did not have appointments with a person, Mr De Juniac, but with a society that Mr De Juniac represented at the time. So I assume that the agreements made as reflected in the March 2015 letter are still in place. Those were confirmed to me, Dijksma, when I went there in the footsteps." That is all wonderful, but the Secretary of State has just said that there has been official contact from her department very recently, yesterday, even ad personam of the Minister of Finance. Then the Secretary of State will be able to inform the Chamber that she knows that the policy which was written in the March letter will be pursued and that all these commitments will be respected. Surely that is not something she can say: I assume? I mean, she could have verified that and told us if she wanted to. That has nothing to do with the company's listed status.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u31	Again, this requires a lot of precision. What we can do is indicate what we are committed to in this type of conversation. We cannot now anticipate the outcome of a plan, but let us be clear that the Dutch Government has always been committed to these agreements and that they have been reconfirmed. I would almost like to say that until proven otherwise. And the opposite has not been proven to me. So, as far as I'm concerned, those appointments are on the table, and I'm going for them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u32	The Secretary of State is actually saying the following, and I will have to accept it if it does not go any further: trust us, we would be a lot more worrying if we really had cause for this enormous concern in the direction of 2 November. That's actually what she's saying. That's all she can lose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u33	No, I'm just being very careful because I can't anticipate plans a listed company makes for the future. What I can do is show the Chamber my bets. What I can also do is say that we have made agreements before, and the Dutch Government has these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u34	Let me get this straight. The Secretary of State rightly pointed out that there are a number of public interests that the cabinet is right for and that it wants to defend the cabinet, and that at the same time we are dealing with plans for a listed company. Those two things have to get together sooner or later. Sooner or later means between now and about five, six days. So my question is: where does the plan of the listed company, at the shareholders' meeting of which we are then present, and the protection of the public interest come together in the next five or six days?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u35	As I have said, we are, of course, constantly making clear what our public interest is. That's what we did yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u36	Can I assume that this listed company is well aware that it should not propose plans that are contrary to the public interest of the Netherlands, in this case for example KLM's network quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u37	Once again, I have always said, and that remains very precise, that I cannot anticipate, not because I would not like to do that or because I would not like to please the Chamber, to the future plans that a listed company puts down. As a Dutch government, Mr Monasch asks us to work for the interests of the Dutch economy, for KLM and for everything related to network quality. I say to him: we do, and we did until yesterday. That is what Mr Monasch asked us to do. Mr Graus said: you must go to Paris. But Mr Janaillac was in the Netherlands yesterday. So we don't have to go to Paris this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u38	Finally. So the Secretary of State hasn't seen those plans yet. Soon the Minister of Finance will speak from the perspective of state participation, in which the shareholdership is secured. Those plans will be here in the next five days anyway. If these plans are not on the cabinet, is there a moment in the next five days when it is going to say: ho, we do not want them to be discussed in the board, because they are contrary to the public interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u39	No, those plans will have to be discussed in the board first. That the Dutch cabinet can then express a position on this, I admit to Mr Monasch grif. I think it would be a good idea to tell him that we will let him know. But let's also establish, again, that we're not in the cockpit. I have said that before, and I keep repeating it. This means that the course of things is so that the board of the company simply conducts its own discussions and that we now indicate from our position what we consider to be the Dutch interest. Of course, the departments work well together. Nor do we speak a word of Spanish, in order to add another language. But I can't say more than that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u40	We're not in the cockpit, no, but if we know the pilot fell asleep, we're gonna knock at the door. So that's what we're doing right now. We now know that there has been contact from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, that there has been official contact and that the Minister of Finance has even spoken live with the manager of the holding company. What was said there? Because something must have been said, right? Has it been said, we're going to do this and this, but you can't tell the Chamber tomorrow? Or has it been said, I can't tell you anything yet? And if nothing was said, what was the conversation about? Surely the Secretary of State has transferred the sensitivities that live here in the Netherlands to Mr Janaillac?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u41	I don't think there's any misunderstanding about the last one, nor about the first one. I have repeatedly said to the Chamber that I cannot tell her what is being said in this type of conversation, since it concerns the interests of a listed company. This means that neither I nor the Minister can now anticipate the content of the talks that are being reported to us from the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u42	I understand the Secretary of State is in a loyalty dispute. Of course, she is concerned with the listed feelings of Mr Janaillac's holding company, but we are talking about the interests of the Netherlands. We want to know all about that. The Secretary of State now chooses to let Mr Janaillac's interests go for ours. I don't think that's right. That is why I am asking: if we cannot know what Janaillac is going to propose to the board, then at least today we can give a motion to this cabinet to ensure that we, as a Dutch parliament, attach a great deal to last year's agreements, that we assume that these agreements will remain secure and that we have a problem otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr Van Helvert is creating a false contradiction here, perhaps consciously, because the interest of the holding company is also KLM's interest. So if we were to make confidential announcements about plans now, we would harm the holding company as a whole and thus potentially KLM as well. Mr Van Helvert would certainly not want that. He asked us, in an explicit and eloquence manner, as we are used to him: make sure that you stand for the Dutch interest. My answer today is clear: that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u44	The interest of the holding company is also the interest of KLM and vice versa, says the Secretary of State. It doesn't always have to be that way. It may be very important for the holding company that the maintenance part goes to the holding company, but that is really not in the interest of KLM. That's exactly what we're worried about. Hence my question: is it not better for us to support you, in case that is necessary, with a ruling from the Chamber, namely that the Chamber assumes that no business lines are transferred to the holding company?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u45	I also feel strongly supported by the Chamber without a Chamber statement to stand up for Dutch interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u46	Maybe it's a little unusual, but I agree with the Secretary of State on this point. There is, of course, a difference between being a state-owned company or having a state-owned participation. In any case, we would not want to spoil the negotiations by asking here for information that may be fun for now but ultimately gets us into trouble. I would now like to talk about something that has to do with the relationship between the Chamber and the Secretary of State, which I asked a question about at the beginning. The Secretary of State sent a letter in June. We've been about four months. It is annoying to have to debate each other in response to a newspaper report. That is why I ask my question once again: could the Secretary of State at some point have indicated that this plan, Trust Together, was under way, when it would be discussed and when the Chamber would be informed about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u47	I do not see why we are constantly sending in this way, from our position. That is what we do when our interests are at stake. Of course, we will always report to the Chamber on it if necessary. As I said, it seems to me appropriate to agree with the Chamber that the Dutch Government should give an appreciation of the plans when they will be public next week and send them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u48	So now I have a different picture of the debates we have had. It's possible. So we are having a discussion following newspaper reports and the Secretary of State will proactively inform us when it can, but nine out of ten times that will be following a shareholders' meeting and decisions that have taken place there. So she doesn't want to announce in advance that plans are coming, for example. Again, I think the latter would be wise. Then we don't need to hear about it through the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u49	Again, I cannot comment on the content of these plans. So we can say that plans are coming, but then the Chamber is going to have the debate with us and ask about its content and then we have to say that we do not know yet whether we have to wait for it. That is why some of the debates are going to be complicated, because Mrs Belhaj was right to open her own interruption with this. This is a company that is remote from us. What we very much agree on is that we need to keep our finger on the wrist in order to keep a close eye on our interests, but also to defend them when necessary. I am well aware that this is what the Chamber demands from us. There's really no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u50	I'm a little disappointed. The Secretary of State is really throwing one pepper nut to the Chamber. In a week, the plan will be there. I have the feeling that we are always at the end of these subjects: it is a listed company, it comes with a plan and the Secretary of State cannot make any announcements about it. The letter of March 2015 states what has been agreed. Isn't it purely a matter of passing these letters from one top man to another and then getting the appointments reconfirmed? That's not so hard, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u51	You are now pretending that we would not do that, as if we were not constantly emphasising what the agreements were. However, that is different from asking for a re-confirmation. That suggests that you have doubts about the fact that those agreements are in place, and I do not think that that would be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u52	There's been a palace revolution. Well, that happens here sometimes, and new brooms sweep clean, but sometimes they don't. So it's just a question of what we're getting served in a week's time. The Chamber is unanimously concerned about that. That blue bird that the Secretary of State uses as a metaphor, stands for a feeling that lives not only with the government and the Chamber but throughout the country, perhaps excluding some neighbors from Schiphol. The essence seems very clear to me. That is why I find it regrettable that we are getting very little from the Secretary of State tonight, while she is usually as involved as possible, depending on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u53	I understand. I am now also involved in what is always our commitment. I also said that we have contacts all the time. So what I can tell you, I share. But what I cannot do is tell the Chamber the plans of a listed company, as far as we know them exactly, because they will be presented next week. Then the Chamber asks me to do something I can't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u54	Finally, Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u55	So if I ask you if the department is what is it? KLM's Engineering & Services stays at Schiphol Airport, you cannot tell me: that is so, Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u56	No, but I can tell you that the commitment we have always made in terms of employment, landing rights and investment opportunities has been, is and remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr. Chairman. I have reservations about which questions have not yet been answered. All I can say is that I have had two contacts with the new CEO of Air France-KLM since his arrival this spring. The first moment was just before his appointment. Already in that discussion I indicated the priorities of the Dutch Government, which have just been repeated by the Secretary of State. Yesterday Mr Janaillac was in the Netherlands and again we spoke extensively for further acquaintance. Once again, I have said that we attach great importance to these agreements. So they're like a house. They were also mentioned by the various spokesmen. Those agreements concern the model with the two airlines which must put their own affairs in order and be able to develop independently. There is a connection, I say to Mr Smaling, because the agreement is, quite rightly, that the two airlines can only invest in the extent to which they themselves manage to control their costs and create room for new investments. Why do we adhere to these agreements? Because that's exactly what KLM is doing and that's what Air France has to do. Air France has been lagging behind in the last few years, as the Chamber knows. We therefore attach great importance to this model. Both can grow independently and no parts, work or flights are transferred to Paris. They have independent financial management. All these elements were discussed yesterday in the discussion. There can be no misunderstanding about that. It was a good conversation. I think that a new CEO entering a company with such great challenges should also really be given the space to make a new plan. So I have great expectations of that, because there is real work to be done, especially on the French side. My impression of his remarks, even during the conversation, although of course I cannot quote from them, but he has also said this in the press, is that he understands the urgency very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u58	In the media it says that he intends to sit on the board of KLM. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u59	It's hard for me to respond to plans listed in the media. I have made two things clear at this point in the conversation. Firstly, that there is no problem with governance on KLM's side. On the KLM side, there are problems, as on the French side, in terms of cost control, profitability, profitability, but not in terms of governance. Secondly, I have explained to Mr Janaillac, probably in abundance, what the Dutch governance culture and structure is like. We do not have a one-tierboard, but a supervisory board and a board of directors. That model is working well. We are committed to maintaining that distinction, that is to say, the two-tier model. If there are such plans, I have indicated, I think, that this would not work in the Dutch context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u60	I understand, I say this in Dutch for a moment, that the Minister said that it is not wise to fly from Paris to Amsterdam as CEO and then sit on the board. That's a summary of my own words. If it isn't, I'll hear about it. The Minister is present here, alongside the Secretary of State, mainly as a representative of the shareholder. Can I ask you another question about that? Can the Minister explain how he is going to involve Parliament when he will have the final plans on the table as a shareholder? Because the Secretary of State just said she can't say much about it, because it's a listed company. But the minister is in that listed company. At what point will the Chamber be informed? Is there a time when the Minister says: if I read these plans, perhaps I should consult the Chamber before 2 November?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u61	The latter will not go anyway, because the plans will only be presented on 2 November. They are discussed earlier in the board of Air France-KLM. The Netherlands isn't in that. There is a representative of the Dutch government on that board: Mr De Hoop Scheffer. He will undoubtedly inform and involve us in his position, because we have close cooperation with him. But I can't tell you about the plans, even if they're still in that board at the decision-making stage. As is well known, Air France-KLM's board at holding company level is a one-tierboard. This means that the executive and supervisory part is on a large supervisory/supervisory board. That is integrated and Mr Jaap de Hoop Scheffer is in it. So we really can't say anything about that in advance. That is not because we do not want to inform the Chamber, but because it is simply not legal. Let that be perfectly clear. Let us also be absolutely clear that the Dutch position and the Dutch views have been fully reflected in all the discussions that I and the officials have had with French representatives over the last few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u62	The Minister had two talks with the new director of the holding company. Is there any reason to doubt the fact that there are agreements? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u63	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u64	That's good to hear. Some things do give us some doubts, for example the fact that there are trade unions of KLM employees who are already going to Paris to negotiate. They are therefore not negotiating with the director of KLM here in the Netherlands, in Amstelveen, but with the director of Air France, Janaillac, also the director of the holding company. I wonder: is that a first form of centralization? How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u65	I really can't respond to that. I do not know what talks Dutch unions have with which representatives of the holding company or one of the two airlines. Mr Van Helvert asks me what I think of this consultation that would have taken place, but I do not even know if it has taken place and what its nature would have been. I really can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u66	Another point that raises my doubts is the political situation in France. There are elections there. Prime Minister Hollande would like to be re-elected. He has just chosen Mr Janaillac from his constituency as director of the holding company Air France-KLM. Mr François Hollande does not benefit from any strike in Paris we are used to from Air France.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u67	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u68	Does the Minister see the tension that can arise, namely that Janaillac's policy should benefit President François Hollande, especially given that politics and business in France are much more mixed than in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u69	My impression is that Mr Janaillac was chosen for this post on the basis of his experience in a previous position. In fact, he was a semi-private, semi-public company in the transport sector and, as far as I have been able to judge, he has done an excellent job. He has a very good name in the transport sector. That was one of the reasons why, after the first conversation, before his appointment, I expressed my confidence. That was not asked of me, I say honestly, because formally I have no control over it. But I attached myself to speaking with him before his appointment. My French colleague, to whom I have asked, has also encouraged Mr Janaillac to call me for his appointment. Partly on that basis and on the basis of the conversation we had, I expressed my confidence in his appointment. I think that's why he's sitting there, period. The rest is all speculation. I really can't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u70	I heard the Minister of Finance say that the Dutch representative, De Hoop Scheffer, keeps the Minister informed of his opinion. That's how I understood it and that's how I can translate it. My request to the Minister is to convey that we almost Chamberwide do not want any further centralization. We do not want any further transfer of KLM components. That can be imposed, because the State is a shareholder. It must not be the case that we are waiting for the opinion of a representative of the Netherlands, of that best man. That's the reverse world, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u71	We're really fighting each other when it's totally unnecessary. There is no misunderstanding, not even among the Dutch representatives on the Air France-KLM board, about the importance of maintaining the current model, namely two airlines that can develop themselves both on the basis of their performance. There is no misunderstanding about the fact that the Netherlands, and therefore Mr De Hoop Scheffer too, believes that no tasks should be transferred from Amsterdam to Paris, and certainly not, as was previously the case in the press, in order to solve Air France's problems. Both companies must put their own affairs in order and can develop further on this basis. The same applies to maintenance. There is already a certain degree of specialisation between the maintenance company in Paris and in the Netherlands. They already work closely together and do so well. The maintenance of Air France-KLM is also at other locations in the world. So there's no misunderstanding about that. Mr Graus is now suggesting that I should call someone to order, but none of that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u72	I responded more strongly that the Minister said that De Hoop Scheffer would keep the Minister informed of his opinion. At least that's how it was put. I responded to that, because the way the Minister said it worried me. I responded to that. We must decide immediately, possibly with many parties, whether or not to table a motion, because we want firm guarantees. We know that a memorandum of understanding, as I said in my speech, is actually butter soft. What guarantees is given to the Chamber to remove any concerns about further centralisation or the transfer of KLM components in the future? Give us something to reassure us and not make a motion. It doesn't work with just these words. I have already said: the KLM greenhouse, Transavia; they continue. I just don't trust them. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u73	I don't think we can convey that confidence to you tonight. No one is asking you to trust the French colleagues on the blue eyes either. Most of the time, they're brown eyes. The agreements are perfectly clear. We have also found no reason to doubt them in recent talks with the new top man. I have drawn attention once again to its importance. I also stressed the importance of good cooperation and respect for the independence of KLM's governance. Here too, the message is quite clear. Again, I really don't have any reason at the moment to... there hasn't been a single announcement of questioning appointments, so I'm gonna do it last.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u74	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u75	I just want a harder guarantee than that MoU, that memorandum of understanding. What can we do? What are the possibilities? I really want to know, because we have to decide immediately whether or not we are going to table a motion together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u76	Those appointments are good. They've been standing for a few years. Every time there is discussion about it, they are confirmed in mutual conversations. I am not going to question these agreements in any way by saying: as we have arranged it, it is not good; can we arrange it differently? I'm looking pretty ugly. Those appointments are like a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u77	One of the requests from the Chamber was to indicate in the letter the relationship of power and authority. The answers of the cabinet are very clear. Perhaps a question is sometimes asked too much or once again, but that is obviously the result of a shared concern. Let us look again at the relationship of power and control within the group. Isn't that a source of suspicion? Of the fifteen members of the board of directors, two are automatically appointed by the French State and by the French workers. Of the remaining 13, the Dutch State may nominate one. The French State may nominate two members. The French workers can also nominate two more members, while the Dutch workers cannot make a nomination for any place. Is it not necessary to strike a more balanced balance in these relations, so that the Dutch State and the Dutch employees get more room in this board of directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u78	I would like to make two comments. Firstly, Mr Monasch must realise that the Dutch shareholdership of a small 6% is seen on KLM and not on Air France-KLM. If Mr Monasch says that the Dutch representation in the top holding company is not strong enough, then I would point out the proportions. They came into being when the companies went together. Ownership relations were then established. The Dutch share only sees KLM. If you take that into account, you have to note that the Netherlands has a strong representation on that board. There is another discussion about the employee seats. There is French legislation that applies to all French listed companies above a certain size. The French legislator has decreed that seats should be reserved for employee representation. Perhaps that is an idea that Mr Monasch, given his political background and colour, also appeals to the Netherlands. However, France has already succeeded in putting it into law. I have been in contact with the French colleague about these two seats. I asked whether it would not be wise and logical for one of the two to be occupied by Dutch workers. That discussion has not yet been concluded. I will raise the issue again. There is now a new French minister. Not only the top man of Air France-KLM, but also the French minister has been changed. It's Minister Sapin now. At the beginning of November I will talk to him about Air France-KLM. I will raise this point again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you for that commitment. I understand it from the holding company, but a while ago we discussed the fact that the French have increased their share. The French state has increased its share from 15%, by my mind, to 17.5%. Then we wondered what that meant. When the French state expands its interests, you wonder if there's something behind it. We all know French politics and her relationship with this type of company a little better. Does the Minister see this behaviour of the French State as a reason to say that perhaps we should strengthen our position there? Or does he say: I have sufficient confidence in the current structure for the time being?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u80	I do not think that the Dutch government should recreate French policy on its state-owned companies! Let me add another sentence. By the way, this first sentence was so tenacious that I actually have to drop a silence. The reason why the French government then expanded its share package had to do with other French legislation. It meant that a shareholders' meeting could only be blocked by a majority of at least 80%. By the way, I'm doing this out of my mind and trying to get it back as best I can. In any case, it was French legislation on control relations and I think it meant that it could only be blocked if a certain percentage of the shareholders' meeting rejected that law. That is why the French government increased its share package slightly in the case of several state-owned companies, so that it could block the blocking option of the shareholders' meeting at that new French legislation. That was the only reason at the time. Furthermore, of course, this expansion is not so substantial that it has suddenly changed the balance of power within the company. The Chamber must realize, and the Chamber realizes, that our share of this company, the share of the Dutch State, has been very small from the very beginning and sees only KLM. That is why we are working much more with the political lever and that is our direct contacts, our political contacts and our talks with the managers of the holding company. They also understand, of course, that they have a great interest in having good relations with the Dutch government, the State Secretary responsible for Schiphol and aviation policy and the shareholder who is also a shareholder of Schiphol. They all understand that very well. That is an indirect way, because it is a lever that often runs along the political-administrative path. In this situation, it runs much less through shareholdership.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u81	I would like to say that we came up with this at the end of the first term, if it were not for Mr Elias to make another comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u82	I believe that my question to the Minister on the 2010 Memorandum of Understanding or the 2010 Independent Act has not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u83	I think that's more of a question for the Secretary of State. I can't answer that so quickly. Maybe we can take that with us in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u84	Then we'll do it in the second term. That MoU is from the time of Minister Eurlings, if I do have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you for that objective addition, Madam President. Could we suspend for five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u86	I'm just gonna look around and see if that's okay, and I can see that that's true, even though it's a little unusual.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u87	I don't need this, but I'd like to allow my colleague if he's not out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u88	Then I shall suspend the sitting until 10.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u89	We shall begin with the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me the suspension. I think it is important that we, as a Chamber, make one sound in this debate. It shouldn't be a cross-party debate. That is why I was pleased that we had a brief preliminary discussion in the second instance. The minister said there's no doubt about the agreement. Then we see that the Minister and the Secretary of State have been in contact, but have not been able to say anything about it. That is so; we will have to accept that here. The way I heard it, I believe the Minister and the Secretary of State have understood our situation. We are faced with the question: should we do something now or should we do nothing? We do not want to miss the importance of KLM. We now see that the Minister and Secretary of State are seeing this, and we like that. Nevertheless, we are not yet reassured. Nor can we see whether the Minister and the Secretary of State are reassured. That makes us all, or let me speak for myself, that makes me and the CDA Group restless. We trust the Minister and the Secretary of State to protect the interests of KLM, the Dutch national interest within KLM, so I am not talking about the company, but about the national interest within KLM. After all, KLM is very important for Schiphol and Schiphol is very important for the Netherlands. We trust that the Minister and the Secretary of State, as soon as there is something to report, whether it is being heard by the press or in any other way, which they know is very important that we know whether we will be discussing it directly, so that we, as a Chamber, may be able to make statements on this matter in the interests of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you. I'll see if Mr Graus is ready. That is him; I will give him the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u92	Madam President. I would like to thank all the aviation spokesmen. I've been in the Chamber for ten years, and I've been through quite rarely, but twice when it comes to KLM, we all get together because it's a national interest. I'm pretty proud of that. We're often at odds, and now we're getting together. I understand that the Secretary of State and the Minister cannot follow up on everything we ask. It's about the BV Netherlands. These are directly tens of thousands of jobs, indirectly hundreds of thousands of jobs, and billions for the Dutch economy. For the umpteenth time, I say that we have experienced the attempt at coup with the KLM cash, at least the Transavia story. Now it seemed like another coup attempt; it is possible that it will be, we do not know, and the Secretary of State and the Minister apparently do not know it yet either. We'll wait and see. Unfortunately, we will have to wait until 3 November. I'm sure we'll all be back here, and I hope we'll be unanimous again if that's the case. I still believe that KLM should never have been sold. That has happened; we cannot reverse it. But I do think that the State should buy back shares of KLM to buy more power and power, especially for the benefit of KLM, Schiphol and the BV Nederland. I suspect that someday there will be a parliamentary inquiry on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mr. Chairman. I have been reluctant, on behalf of the VVD Group, to support these debates on previous occasions if we did not have enough facts. I think it is a good thing that we have had this debate this evening. In this sense, I agree with Mr Graus on an exceptional basis. The Chamber has clearly and clearly indicated its position, partly on the basis of rather serious disturbing reports in the French press. I'm not entirely happy with what I've heard from the cabinet, but I do understand. The Minister has made it very clear: we have indicated our position in France and in the company itself. The Secretary of State has also indicated that we cannot go through the procedures, because it is a listed company. The rulers are not entirely our political color, but we trust them anyway. They're gonna work on it. The signal from the Chamber is absolutely clear. I am still waiting for the answer to be given to the question of whether we have done wisely to record it in 2010 in such a way that the control ultimately lies with Air France-KLM as holding company. She can do a lot, as long as she only announces it nine months in advance. That remains an extremely painful point for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u94	Mr. Chairman. I think the strength of this evening is in having this debate and hearing from each other that we are actually very united in it. If you have a holding company with parties from two different countries, it would of course be nice if everything was based entirely on trust. I'm not a person who immediately senses distrust, but it's running you anyway, and that's not the first time you've seen a little thin in the pants when you know that something's coming in a week from which you know very little, which you haven't seen coming in advance and about which you'll be informed to a very limited extent. Again, Louis Napoleon was once appointed king here and has done a lot of good things for the Netherlands. He liked us, but the great Napoleon removed him from this country. That is a bit haunted when I think of France, even though I also like a lot of things about that country. I hope it will end well, but I am counting on everything that the rulers have promised here and the talks they have had with their French colleagues to lead to a lasting bright future for the KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u95	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the answers and the confidence it expresses in this debate. That gives us and all kinds of people who are worried confidence and it might give the French some fear. I notice that every time there is a kind of struggle, because on the one hand, the Chamber cannot get information in advance, even if it is quite clear why it is, but on the other hand it has a kind of responsibility. When you're informed about something, you want to have a certain form, so you can explain it to other people who point out your responsibility and ask: how did you meet with the cabinet? So I'll keep looking for that. I also made the point earlier that I wonder how we should place this in the context of proactive information. Soon there will be something, the newspapers will be full of it and we will receive a letter from the cabinet, but what can I actually charge this cabinet for? How exactly am I supposed to see that? Perhaps the cabinet will be able to indicate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. I hope there is understanding on all sides that the same question has sometimes been asked a few times too much, but we all understand where it comes from. I think it would be wise, and I would like to get that commitment from the cabinet that as soon as those plans are public and known, the Chamber will receive a letter from the cabinet with an appreciation of the plans that have been laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u97	I take it the rulers can answer directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u98	That's right. Mr. Chairman. On that last point, I will just head the ball: the answer is yes. I said that in the first place. That fits with the controlling role of the Chamber. Once the plans are in place and are public, it is also possible for us to talk about them and give our appreciation. Mrs Belhaj asked what she could do to settle the cabinet. In this case, because we're not the company, that's our bet. That is what the Chamber must judge us on. That is different from the outcome, because we cannot always predict it in all cases. It is clear that we all stand for the Dutch interest involved with KLM. That's what I started my contribution to. I believe that there is complete agreement between the Chamber and the Cabinet on this. I feel strongly supported by all the words that have been said about this from Parliament. We have the same message all the time. We have been here before, and we will certainly not be standing here for the last time to talk about this subject, but we are holding on to each other and we are not letting KLM go. That's the attitude here. Mr Elias asked me to go back to 2010 in retrospect. There's a lot to say about that. I'm not going to do all of that now, given the time, because the context was different back then. That seems to have been discussed extensively in the Chamber. In fact, State guarantees were partially extended in 2010 by memorandum or understanding. That is indeed not hard, because in the end it can always be cancelled by the holding company. That's why my predecessor made arrangements. Those are in writing and verbally confirmed to me. That's why these agreements are so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Smaling for his plastic and creative contribution tonight. He started with Les Poppys and ended with Louis Napoleon. In between, he was thin in the pants. Mr Graus also mentioned a damp butt crack, if I remember correctly. I find it all extremely uplifting. I'm enjoying it. It is good that the debate is so rich in language and creativity. Having said that, it is an extremely serious matter. I do not need to repeat the two legs of the company, because we attach a great deal of importance to this. This is inevitable, because competition is still higher than Air France-KLM. The same goes for KLM. So I did not want to pass up this opportunity to make that point again. The enemy is not in the holding. He's not in Paris. The big competitors are far abroad. They go faster in cost savings, efficiency, expansion and growth than Air France-KLM. It's really still an urgent matter. I also strongly support the management of KLM in the measures it is taking to achieve efficiency gains and savings. You can rest assured that we stand for that national interest. This is not contrary to a strong holding company Air France-KLM. That is also the message that we always send to French colleagues. My strong impression is that the new top man understands that very well and shares that. That is why I think we should give him a chance to present a good plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-9.u100	I shall close this debate on the Air France-KLM group, but only after I have said that I have not experienced any interference from the Chamber in an initial period of time. You didn't have a single question, which already said anything about this debate. That's exactly what you said. I thank the rulers for coming to the Chamber.
