ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-24.u1	Mr. Chairman. For some time now we have been very concerned about the Dutch Forensic Institute, called the Dutch CSI. That's very important work in the search. The motions I have tabled on this matter speak for themselves, I think. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands Forensic Institute is among the top of the forensic world, but there are serious concerns about quality due to the ongoing austerity and reorganisation;]] [[noting the lack of a sound vision of forensic research so far, but the budget is still dwindling and the reorganisation entails the elimination of staff and the outsourcing of research areas, while the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office remain on the shelf whose trails should not be sent because of the restrictive agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure immediately that the workforce is not reduced and research areas are not outsourced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the demand for trace research is rising from the criminal justice chain, but that the budget of the Dutch Forensic Institute is falling;]] [[calls on the government to identify the real demand from the police and the Public Prosecutor for trace research and what budget would actually be included, and to inform the Chamber about this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-350]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Swinkels and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-351]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-24.u2	Finally, I have a question. There's something crazy going on with the budget, or at least there might be something crazy going on. A press release to the budget suggests that money will be added for the year 2017. However, the table about the Dutch Forensic Institute on page 46 shows that there is a significant decrease. So I would like to know from the Minister what exactly that is about, especially since there is an inexplicably high amount in 2016, which no one can really bring home to the NFI itself, at least not for the time being. So I would like the Minister to explain, preferably in a letter, what exactly is the situation with these budget fluctuations: from 70 million to 89 million and back to 63 million. I would very much appreciate it if the Minister could explain this in a clear letter before the budgetary procedure with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-24.u3	Mr. Chairman. I was very pleased with the general discussion on the forensic investigation, because I just came back from a work visit to the police after which I, truly, almost distraughtly walked out. Turned out what? It was a high wood rope content. There was little administrative support, a lack of sufficient technical detectives, poor communication equipment and so on. The Minister then told us: if it is really so bartender and angry, then I'm going to visit. I want to know from the Minister what his experiences are. What's he been told? What's he gonna do about it? We have seen in the budget that he really wants to do something with it. I like to hear something. I would very much like to quote a little bit. I've got two minutes, so that's okay. The following exchange of views took place in general consultation. I said to the Minister that it is about having a system in which all the traces necessary for criminal investigations can be handed in as quickly as possible and with the highest quality. The Minister almost literally recited that. He added: "Mrs Van Toorenburg said that there are a number of oddities in there that we need to do something about." I am, of course, very curious to know what the Minister has come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-24.u4	We're about to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-24.u5	Mr. Chairman. The debate has been over. In the meantime we got the pieces on Prinsjesdag. I'm having a bit of a dilemma here. If we wait until the budget of the Ministry of V and J is dealt with, it will take some time. We're in the back row. And in the meantime, the NFI would like to know what it's up to. I didn't come out of the puzzle myself. We can ask factual questions, but perhaps the Minister can already lift a hint of the veil or, as Mr Van Nispen asked, write a letter quickly. That is my request at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-24.u6	I'll take a look at the minister how much time he needs. One minute, he says. That sounds very firm. We are waiting for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-24.u7	Mr. Chairman. We have had a general discussion in which we have talked extensively about forensic research in the broad sense. There is no discussion about the fact that forensic research has been developing and moving in recent years and is expected to continue in the coming years. Why is that? The technique of forensic research is developing enormously and as a result the demand for forensic research also changes. A few years ago, it was quite exceptional that a DNA profile of someone was drawn up, whereas it has now become an absolute standard job. I have promised the Chamber that I would pay a working visit to the NFI and I have done so in the meantime. I've seen the robots making DNA profiles there. The identification and assessment of DNA profiles is a particular challenge, in particular because the number of points used to create these profiles will increase enormously in the future. That's very wise, too. So the developments are huge. It also goes without saying that the importance of everything that has to do with digital detection and digital forensic research has not only increased in recent years, but has also changed enormously. I have seen very positive examples of this myself. I haven't been to the police forensics department yet, so I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg. There is already a work visit planned, so I hope I can do the same. I will then sit with everyone on the couch to hear what is going on, as I promised Mrs Van Toorenburg. I come to the budget of the NFI. Last year we agreed that an additional amount would be added to the budget of the NFI. The amount involved was 5 million, including for the work of the Hoekstra Commission and for an additional effort in the field of ICT and trace research. This year I again committed 3 million extra for the NFI, especially for the trace research related to the excellent work of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, other government parties and private parties in the framework of the RIECs and the municipalities in the South of the Netherlands. Tackling drug crime and undermining crime in the South of the Netherlands is leading to a boom in spurs. I think it is very important that these tracks can be sent in. For this reason, I have made a further 3 million extra available for 2017 specifically to combat the undermining crime in the South of the Netherlands. At the same time, the budget of the NFI is falling due to the state-wide targets we have agreed. There is also something technical going on, and this has to do with the way in which the housing system has taken place. I am going to write a letter on this to the Chamber and it will receive it for the budget debate. I will explain how the current fluctuation can be explained and what it means. In the Van Nispen/Swinkels motion in part No. 350 is asked the government to undo the reorganisation and not to spend any more. First of all, I think you should reorganise if you need to. If, in addition, the execution of research in certain areas is no longer profitable for your organisation, you may outsource it as far as I am concerned. This is also the idea behind the "one stop shop" model, which is currently being discussed with the NFI and the Entrepreneurship Council. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion-Van Nispen c.s. in piece No. 351 calls on the government to identify the real demand from the police. I won't do that. If we map that question now, in a few years' time, the real question of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office will in principle be unlimited. If we're gonna get everything checked out, you're gonna have to take a look at everything. The police realize she shouldn't. She has her own forensic research facilities, so she can do a lot of pre-work herself. There is no point in identifying this question, because it is basically unbridled. We cannot put an open funding of the NFI in the face of this. I have discussed this extensively with the NFI. The NFI is taking good steps. I will also mention them in the letter. I have promised that I will inform the Committee on Budgetary Control of the state of the reorganisation. I would also like to take this point with me. So that letter will really cover the NFI in the broadest sense. Attention will also be paid to how we ensure that the traces that need to be sent are actually sent in. I will therefore explain how this additional 3 million will lead to the actual updating of the service-level agreements so that more traces can be sent in from the south of the Netherlands. After all, we can see that there is such a need. I must therefore advise against the motion, but I shall inform the Committee on Budgets about the current state of affairs concerning the NFI, both the reorganisation and the trace research in the South of the Netherlands and the problem of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-24.u8	Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-24.u9	Voting time on the motions will be next Tuesday.
