ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u1	I welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and give Mrs Leijten the opportunity to ask her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. It all looked so rosy. The premium would increase by €3.50 per month and its own risk would not increase at all. This was leaked professionally before Princess Day. As a result, purchasing power also improved for everyone. A stamp from the Central Planning Bureau on it, bow around it and everyone was proud. Minister Dijsselbloem was proud. Prime Minister Rutte was proud and Minister Schippers was of course also very proud. Now that all the care premiums are known, we see that the premiums increase twice as much as the Minister, the Ministry of Finance and the Central Planning Office calculated us. The purchasing power promised has disappeared like snow before the sun. Where the minister shows off figures when they look good, she brings the figures back to "they were but estimates" if it turns out that 13.5 million people see their premiums rise. Those people are getting a little tired of it: bounty increase and commercials on TV at the same time. There is no point in switching because premiums are increasing everywhere. With every insurer you are sure that next year the news will come that he has more reserve than in the previous year. It is serious to note that we are no longer dealing with what is all of us, namely the concern. Is the Minister prepared to force the health insurance companies to reduce the premium by using the reserves to reduce the premium? If she isn't, will we just stop taking this financially out of control, unmanageable health care system and taking away the health insurance companies from their power?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. A number of issues have been estimated in the budgets for decades for the sake of purchasing power. In this context, we estimate pension contributions, wage developments, inflation and care contributions. We don't determine any of them ourselves. All these matters are settled externally. The care premium is now higher, on average €49 per contributor. In total, this represents about 1.5% of total Health Insurance Act expenditure. No matter how well you try to window and no matter how well you try to improve the sum, you're soon wrong 1.5%, especially at these kinds of amounts. That is also true, because this year the premium was €44 lower than we had estimated last year. In 2015, the premium was €53 lower than we had estimated and in 2014 the premium was no less than €128 lower than we had estimated. By the way, I have not been called to the Chamber by the SP in any of these years to explain these lower premiums. Insurers spend 1.5 billion out of their reserves. VWS had estimated 2 billion. So they will be doing this a little more gradually this year, but last year it was exactly the opposite. Last year we estimated that they would withdraw 1.5 billion from their reserves and then it was 1.9 billion. So that's exactly mirrored. This indicates to what extent an estimate is an assessment of all kinds of factors. Very often, especially in recent years, they have worked to the advantage, but now we are slightly above it. What Mrs Leijten is saying about purchasing power effects is a little premature, because pension contributions, wage developments and inflation are also subject to change. These things together determine the purchasing power of people. In the case of care, unlike in the other cases, at least the lowest and low middle incomes are fully compensated by the care allowance for the additional premium increase. So they won't notice any of this. There's not one bounty. We have several health insurance companies that have different premiums. The lowest premium currently set is €1,104. That is a lot lower than the average we had calculated. The most expensive is €1.464. There's $350 in there. So there really is something to choose for people. I would just like to say that not only this lowest premium, but some five of the premiums are below that average last year. So there's a lot to choose. People can also determine a lot of themselves in their purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u4	It only indicates how incredibly insecure it is if you hope that health insurers will give back some of their reserves in the premium. It's kind of crazy that we should ask them to give back in the bounty. That is the result of market forces where the Minister does not give enough estimates and does more. The moment the minister estimates more and does less, it's just an estimate. I asked the Minister if she was prepared to force the health insurance companies to reduce by forcing them to use the reserves. Per insured person there is €650 on the spare shelf. That's a lot of bounty money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u5	The cabinet does not determine the premium centrally. That's what the health insurance companies do. That's not news. This is not only what the health insurance companies are doing now, it is what the health insurance funds did in part, and private insurers are doing in full. Wages are not set centrally either. Pension contributions are neither centrally defined nor inflation. So those are things you have to estimate in a budget. We are always slightly wrong about that. Over the past few years, we've been way too high. Now we're too low for the first time. It's always nicer to give that other message. Can I oblige insurers to use their reserves? I cannot do that, just as I said last year: oh, you put in too many reserves, we would have estimated it differently. That's not how our system works. We all want health insurance companies to have reserves to be able to actually pay an insured person's account if it fails. This is how we ensure continuity in care, even if it goes wrong with an insurer. We also learned that from the financial crisis. Let's make sure we have a robust system together, and let's not take that system out of balance by every weather forecast. There's plenty to choose from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u6	I thought I invited the Health Minister, but this sounds like an insurer: it's good what we're doing, we're putting in reserves and things are going well. I cannot explain that there is 11 billion in premium money, €650 per contributor, as a reserve on the shelf. I can't explain that we see commercials all over the place when fewer people switch over every year and there's uncertainty about what's being compensated. Last week we were standing here to discuss that people who need incontinence material don't get what they need. Since yesterday's Minister's report, we know that there are 17 hospitals in our country with extremely long waiting periods, up to 42 weeks. Isn't it just time for a simple care system? A healthcare system that's fair, where you can assume there's no money left on the shelf and no money wasted, but in which you get what you need? A healthcare system in which as a health care provider you do not drown in bureaucracy, in which you as a physiotherapist are not imposed a treatment index, but in which we simply know what is available? Is the Minister prepared to end this out of control and financially unsustainable healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u7	When the SP asks me questions, it always ends in a system discussion. It's rarely about people, it's rarely about quality of care. It's always about the system and it always comes down to changing the system. If we change the system as the SP likes, we'll get very close to systems that already exist. It's not a book utopia. We can see how these systems work. We see, for example, in the United Kingdom systems in which you cannot choose. You can't choose to go to another insurer for your basic insurance. There's one state insurance company. We're seeing the results of that system. We've seen it recently. The waiting times in the Netherlands are very different from those in all those countries around us. If we compare this with the systems that Mrs Leijten advocates, you can see that the Netherlands is doing very well when it comes to waiting times. The Netherlands gets international plumes for that. I would say: let us cherish what we have and let us improve what we have, but let us not start new experiments. That's what care is too sweet for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mrs. Leijten, are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u9	I can blame the Minister a great deal, but not that she is not defending this care system with extreme caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u11	216,000 people have already joined the National Health Fund. I invite everyone to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u12	I do not know what percentage that is of the Dutch population, but it is probably lower than we were wrong with the estimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u13	The cost of care is increasing for ordinary citizens. They are increasingly lost in care. Despite the fact that health insurance companies have billions on the shelf, they do not reduce their premium. The minister says, "I'm not fixing the health insurance premium, so there's nothing I can do about it." What the Minister does note is the towering own risk of €385 per person per year. Is the Minister prepared to reduce this at least or abolish it altogether?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-2.u14	I would like to point out that for the lowest incomes and for the low middle incomes, the health care allowance fully compensates for all the extras that have been added to the estimates as a care premium. These people don't notice. In fact, if we look at the average premium we have in 2017, we can see that it is lower for the lowest income than for the health insurance fund in 2005. These people pay less to their care costs twelve years after that, while the whole care we have, with our top doctors and hospitals, is available to them. The own risk has not been increased for the coming year and remains the same. This is not due to a decision I made, but to the fact that all these doctors and nurses in the Netherlands have kept the costs so well under control in the past year.
