ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would also like to welcome Mrs Lodders in Box K. Martin Kouwenhoven and Margje Knaapen, both employees of the VVD Group. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. It shall act as an adviser to the Chamber in the consideration of this bill. The aim is to finalise today's debate on this initiative proposal. I see that Mr Omtzigt is standing at the interrupting microphone. I shall give the floor to Mrs Lodder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, I am making an order proposal. The whole Chamber had asked Mrs Lodders for a letter of amendment to merge the legislative proposals. Apparently, the ladies did so in good consultation. As a result, there is a letter of amendment of 12 pages for a bill that originally had seven pages. So the bill has changed considerably. I would therefore propose that the legislative proposal be dealt with in three instalments. In the first period, Mrs Lodders can answer the questions asked. In the second period, we will then be able to ask additional questions about the second letter of amendment, which will substantially change the proposal. Otherwise, it's gonna get mixed up. In a third period we can then table short motions. I would like to suggest to you, Mr President, that you suspend between the second term of the Chamber and the second term of the petitioner. I can imagine that one or two questions still have to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	I look at the Chamber and it appears to me that she supports this order proposal. We shall take that into account. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders, who will answer the questions of the Members of Parliament. It's Mrs. Lodder's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. It's special to be standing here today. I should like to begin by thanking my fellow chamber members for their compliments, but certainly also for their contribution to the content. I would also like to express my thanks to my collaborators, Margje Knaapen and Martin Kouwenhoven, my advisors, the support of the Bureau of Legislation and the technical support of the Ministry. I will do my best to answer the questions asked as well as possible. I've divided my answer into five cubes. I'll start with the background and the process. Then I will deal with the variable pension, where I will deal with the individual and collective variant, the distribution mechanism and the right to shop. In the third block I would like to dwell on the information and the moments of choice. In the fourth block I go into the projection rate and in the fifth block I go into the other points. I'll start with the first block, the background and the process. In the Netherlands, about one million people save for their pension through a contribution agreement or capital agreement. The members of this scheme do not know how high their pension benefits will be. This depends on the premium paid in, the return achieved, life expectancy and interest. As soon as the employee retires, the accumulated capital is converted into a periodic life-long pension. The accumulated capital must be converted into the pension payment at the rate applicable at the time of purchase. The participant will then know the amount paid for a lifetime. It is a guaranteed amount, an amount that will not change. As a result, pension administrators reduce the investment risk from the construction phase in the last 15 to 20 years and in the distribution phase, the capital is invested risk-free or not at all. Pensioners can therefore really live up to the commitments. Every day, dozens of people who want to buy their pensions are confronted with low interest rates. They receive a pension which is much lower than the pension they originally assumed. By way of indication: an interest rate of 1% lower can lead to a pension payment of 12% lower. In 2013 I also tabled a motion for more choice when purchasing the pension for people with a premium or a capital agreement. There are more and more employers who are moving into this type of scheme, which is making it more and more important. On the occasion of the motion, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment had an investigation carried out and I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that. This study has shown that investment in the benefit phase will in many cases lead to a higher pension. A recent study by Aon also shows that a system that can be passed on leads to better outcomes. Mr De Graaf and Mr Ulenbelt asked about the need and support of participants and pensioners for this bill. I say to both that there are a lot of people waiting for a solution to the problem of low interest rates. The ability to benefit from investment income during the benefit phase also meets the great desire of members, in particular the beneficiaries. I am almost certain that all my fellow pension spokesmen have received many e-mails and have read letters in the newspapers. For them, this bill offers a solution. For those who do not need it, the current situation remains. The aim of this bill is that members and beneficiaries are no longer dependent on one purchase moment and that they can benefit from a longer investment horizon. The urgency of the problem outlined above is demonstrated by the fact that not only I, but also the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, have tabled a legislative proposal. The government's proposal aims to address the same problem and therefore has largely the same objective as the initiative proposal: by means of longer investment, both legislative proposals aim to enable higher pension benefits for members and beneficiaries. Both legislative proposals thus offer an alternative to the current nominal payout with a fixed purchase moment and interest dependency at the one time. However, both legislative proposals differ in design and design. The cabinet's bill also contains a collective variant. During the first term of the Chamber, almost all political groups asked for the legislative proposals to be brought together. I can well imagine this wish from the Chamber. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and I see the importance of one bill. This avoids confusion about the products and improves the process of successful parliamentary treatment. It was therefore decided, in good consultation, to integrate elements of the government proposal into the current initiative proposal. During the recess, with technical support from the Ministry, I prepared a letter of amendment. In our view, this means that the good elements of both legislative proposals are now combined. Mr Van Weyenberg put it very nicely in his contribution. He said: I hope that the petitioner and the Secretary of State can make sure that we no longer talk about planing two rough diamonds, but that there is one shiny diamond ahead. As far as I'm concerned, there's a fine bill here. As a result of the merger, the original initiative proposal has been considerably extended and strengthened. There is now a single legislative proposal. I hope that this will satisfy the wishes of the Chamber. I also believe that this will speed up the process of parliamentary law-making and thus bring about an adequate solution for many people. Since the draft law has been extended by the letter of amendment, I will now explain this comprehensive legislative proposal further in substance and in this second block also answer the questions of all the parliamentary groups. This law makes it possible for the premium and capital agreements to be extended, including at the benefit stage, and for the purchase of lifelong pension benefits not to take place at a given time. In concrete terms, this means that participants can opt for a variable pension benefit, whereby they do not receive the same amount each year and thus can fluctuate the amount. Moreover, the possibility remains to opt for a nominal pension. This is an additional option for participants. The choice of variable pension benefits has two advantages: there is no fixed purchase time that would cause people to suffer from the current low interest rates for a lifetime, and there can be longer periods, even in the benefit phase, which significantly increases the chances of a higher pension. All studies show that the risk of a higher pension is increased if the investment horizon is shifted. That's why there's this bill. But fair is fair: it can also prevent the benefit from getting lower. Although this is less likely than the risk of a higher pension, he can still act. Mrs Vermeij pointed that out. Participants must realize that. There is an important task for pension administrators on this point. I shall come back to that in the heading 'Information'. I would like to stress that this legislative proposal applies the "practical person" principle to investments. As in the current situation, pension administrators still need to invest in the interest of participants. On the one hand, the aim is to ensure that pensions are as high as possible, but on the other hand to ensure that they are sufficiently secure. That is also an answer to Mr Krol's question about the balance between adequate pension income and adequate security. Mr Krol further asked to indicate what could happen to the variable pension in a pessimistic economic scenario. Recent research by Aon shows that it is expected to be even better to invest the product, compared to an individual product that cannot be passed on. The original bill offered the possibility of investing for individual schemes. By arithmetically basing the bill on units, it is not purchased on the basis of a single moment and therefore involves investing. Even after the letter of amendment, it is still possible to opt for a pension in units. Mrs Vermeij had some questions about the units. She asked what was meant in the explanatory memorandum by the remark that a participant may choose to build up all or part of his pension in pension units. The answer is simple. The participant may opt for a pension consisting partly of a variable benefit and partly of a fixed pension, 50% variable and 50% fixed, so that the 50% will receive a fixed equal benefit. Mrs Vermeij also asked why the units were not removed following the opinion of the Council of State. I deliberately did not do that, I say in response. I believe that basing pensions on units is a good way to make investment possible. Indeed, it is an existing product. There are experiences with working with units. At the same time, however, it is not the only way. Therefore, the units remain in the legislative proposal, but other ways of investing are also made possible. These are based on the Government Bill, the Variable Pension Payment Act. In other words, there are several ways in which the pension provider can shape the variable pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	In particular, the Council of State criticized the unit variant, also in relation to the government proposal. Now we have a proposal that has been put together. The applicant gives a number of arguments as to why this is sensible. There is now an additional question: is it becoming clearer for the participant? There is a lot to choose now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	I understand Mrs Vermeij's question. However, the main issue is that the contracting parties make a choice with each other. So it is not the case that a participant is given all the different options and has to make a choice from them. No, the mechanism by which such a variable benefit is obtained in the case of a pension administrator will soon be available under the hood. So it is not the case that a participant has to make the choice. It opts for a variable or a fixed pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you very much. A great deal of my concern has been taken away by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	Then I come to the collective element. So the bill now offers several ways to arrive at a variable benefit. This can be done both in an individual variant and in a collective way, and this is a valuable addition to the original proposal. The way in which this collective element was shaped in the government proposal is integrated into the initiative legislative proposal. As far as I am concerned, this is an important added value. On the collective variant I come back in the block of projection interest. Mr Ulenbelt asked me if I thought a collective element was necessary and how I would put that element in the legislative proposal. The original initiative proposal focused on the individual schemes. I have indicated that it was not necessarily necessary to make a collectivity possible. I have therefore focused in particular on the individual variant in the legislative proposal. However, there is a need for a collective variant, for example for employers. The addition of a collective element, as elaborated in the government proposal, meets this need. Following the letter of amendment, it is therefore possible to invest collectively and share the risks. My colleague Van Weyenberg also drew attention to this. He asked me to settle this in the letter of amendment and I did so. Mrs Vermeij indicated that she was charmed by a collective element to invest and share the risks. I hope that she too will be enthusiastic about the current legislative proposal, in which this collective mechanism is present. Then the default option, the so-called default option. This option remains a fixed benefit. I believe that participants should explicitly opt for a variable pension. Although it offers more chance of a higher pension, it can also become a little more uncertain. That is why I believe that participants should explicitly choose to do so. Several groups have indicated their enthusiasm for the fixed benefit as a standard option and for a pension where investment is possible as an additional option. So it is an option that people must actively choose, and I agree with it. Mr Krol asked why this cannot be left to the pensioners. I also understand his question, especially since a variable pension can be more attractive, but I think that participants themselves should make that choice. Pensioners can inform their participants, as Mr Krol points out, and indicate how a scheme of investment suits the participant, but I believe that people themselves are about their pensions, because they have worked and saved for years. The choice is therefore, as far as I am concerned, leading. It is not up to the pension administrator to make that choice for the participant. Of course, information and information remain the responsibility of the pension provider. Both individual and collective agreements involve the processing of financial results or an adjusted benefit at least once a year. The government's proposal offered the opportunity to spread controversies and setbacks over time. The initiative proposal did not originally offer this possibility. In the current legislative proposal, the distribution mechanism, over the five-year period, is optional. This was also the case in the government's legislative proposal. That is up to the contracting parties to decide for themselves. In doing so, the current initiative proposal offers more freedom than before. Mr Krol and Mr Ulenbelt indicated that the pension could fluctuate, but using the five-year period could limit these fluctuations. Participants may choose to allow the benefit to be partly fixed and partly variable. With the last choice, partly fixed and partly variable, an additional security can be created on top of the AOW. Choosing a variable pension is that extra option, but people don't have to choose it. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Mulder, I say in the direction of Mr Omtzigt, and Mr De Graaf have asked questions about the spread of coincidences and setbacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	My question concerns the previous remark. I am mainly approached by PPIs with the question of whether the certainty that was first there after the merger is still there, in the sense that they may offer a combination of variable and annuity. This is beyond doubt for pension funds and insurers, but I can see that there are questions about this at PPIs. It seems to me to be a good thing, also for the history of law, if I ask Mrs Lodder if that space will also be available for PPIs, just as there is for other parties. Maybe the Secretary of State can say something about it. Then that's clear for the future, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	I can answer that in the affirmative. That's the case. In the original bill it was not so, but because of the merger it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	PPIs are legally prohibited from carrying biometric risk. Now, in the spreading mechanism introduced in the law, the idea is that, if life expectancy is disappointing, it is, by the way, a strange term in this context, because people will live longer than they can be reduced a bit and vice versa. However, you continue to carry a biometric risk as a PPI, because you continue to pay the last person until they die. You're not gonna stop the payoff. That's a biometric risk. How does this relate to the Pension Act, in which PPIs are explicitly prohibited from carrying a biometric risk? Isn't that what they wear when they're allowed to implement this arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	At a time when the longevity risk lies with the participants, a PPI can implement the scheme, but I suggest that we get back to that in detail in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u13	I appreciate that, but the longevity risk is "in the end" not with the participant. If you wanted to do that, you'd have to say no more retirement after 85 years. The very nice thing about the bill is that the lifelong benefit will continue. We all agree on that. That's what we all want. I'd like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u14	I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mrs Lodders states that the standard option will be the flat-rate benefit. Now the Labour Foundation says it's an improved premium scheme. The foundation is wondering why. An amendment by Mrs De Vries is just coming in which states that, in certain circumstances, the standard will be variable, with an opt-out. That's completely different. Can I conclude by saying that Mrs Lodder has distanced herself from the amendment tabled by her party colleague, Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u16	No, Mr Ulenbelt cannot do that, but I have not yet seen the amendment. I will respond to the amendments in the second period. That seems to me to be very careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u17	The applicant therefore maintains that the default is the fixed benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u18	I said what I said. I shall be discussing the amendments later. More amendments may be tabled. I have also seen an amendment tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. I shall return to that in second term. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the spread of flukes and setbacks. Mr Van Weyenberg, Mrs Mulder and Mr De Graaf have asked questions about this. I'm always careful about spreading risks. It is important not to push things too far, but to take things forward. Mr Van Weyenberg quite rightly points out that the spreading mechanism is applied within the same circle, and thus within 'the own pot', if I may put it that way. Adding an optional distribution mechanism can therefore help to flatten any discounts or profits. To answer a question from Mr De Graaf, this means that the risks of a poor investment year can be reduced. The co-ops and setbacks shall be booked unconditionally, spread over time and in equal steps. I would like to point out that it is still possible to deal with the difficulties and disappointments immediately in the year following that in which they occurred. Where the government proposal placed the macro-longevity risk on the participants' collectivity, the initiative legislative proposal puts it to the pension executive. Here too, the best of both worlds is united, by giving contracting parties the freedom to choose where to place the longevity risk. Here, too, more customization becomes possible. This addition also meets the wishes of Mr Krol and Mr Van Weyenberg. Of course, I'm always happy to meet these gentlemen. In addition, Mr Van Weyenberg asked if there was a buffer surcharge and thus additional costs for the participant, when the long-term risk lies with the pension administrator. The answer to this question is that at present the long-term risk lies with the pension executive. If this variant is chosen, this will not lead to additional costs compared to the current situation. Mrs De Vries also had a question about the longevity risk. She asked whether the contribution pension institution, the PPI, could implement a variable pension. I have just indicated to Mr Omtzigt that when the macro-long-life risk is shared by the collective, it is also possible for the PPI. But we will come back to that in detail in the second term. As the last part of this block, the law of the shop. Mrs Vermeij and Mr Van Weyenberg have asked some questions about this. The original initiative proposal did not change shop law. This means, in practice, that participants in a premium or capital agreement with an insurer or with a PPI have a shopping right at the pension date. With a pension fund, there is no right at the moment, but there is a possibility. The pension fund then determines whether shopping can be done or not. The letter of amendment has extended the right to shop on this point. If a pension administrator only offers a fixed pension, the participant has the right to move to another pension administrator. The same applies to a participant who is a member of a pension provider who offers only variable pension benefits. If that is the case and the participant wishes to opt for a fixed pension benefit, he or she may switch to a pension administrator who offers this product. For example, it becomes possible for anyone to choose a product from a fixed or variable pension, without forcing private parties to offer that product.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u19	At this point, I have a question in conjunction with another point in the legislative proposal. The initiator has previously addressed the default option. It means that the moment you don't answer to your pension fund, you get a permanent pension. The applicant, Mrs Lodders, now says: if there is only a fixed pension, you may switch to variable. But now for the interesting example. Imagine the pension fund offering only variable. Then the default option is still that you're getting a permanent pension. So you don't answer the letter from the pension fund and then you get a fixed pension, but the pension fund doesn't carry it out. So where's your pension gonna be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u20	I shall come back to that in the second term. It is a rather technical implementation, and this also has to do with the way the default is regulated in the new legislative proposal. In principle, it is important that people can make a choice and that they can shop when they cannot make that choice. At the time that choice is not offered, there must be contact with the participant. I'll come back to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u21	In addition to Mr Omtzigt's question, I also have a question. Can it be that pension benefits can only be variable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u22	You now have a brief discussion with Mr Omtzigt, but that is not what the citizens and the people in the public gallery are hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u23	My question is whether it really is true that a pension administrator can only offer a variable benefit in the light of the legislative proposal as it stands today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u24	I'm going to the information and the moments of choice. A pension is complicated for a lot of people. The Pension Communication Act has already improved communication in many areas. This law gives the participants the chance of a higher pension benefit. However, this does not mean that it is simple and that everyone will understand this immediately. Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Krol and Mrs Vermeij asked about communication. The bill provides several new information elements to enable participants to be properly informed. At the start, the participant will be informed about the different options. The annual Uniform Pension Statement (UPO) also informs the participant. The aim is to familiarise the participant with the fact that, in addition to a nominal pension, he can opt for a variable pension, which is passed on. Also a combination of both, for example 50% of your capital converting into a nominal pension and 50% of your capital into a variable pension, is possible. Investing will increase the chances of a higher pension, but it can also prevent the pension from falling. The pension will continue to depend on investments, as is the case today, and this may not be the case. Mrs Vermeij pointed that out too. This can be addressed by looking at the level of the AOW which is fixed, and by choosing that combination of a variable and a fixed benefit, which creates a certain basis for the pensioner. The pension administrator will provide this information. For the sake of completeness, I note that the Pension Communication Act requires a balanced pension communication from the pensioners. A participant should be able, as indicated above, to have all the relevant advantages and disadvantages in order to make that informed choice. The pension administrator is obliged to provide the participant and the former participant with relevant information on the consequences and risks of the choice, including an indication of the level of the determined and variable benefit based on a pessimistic, an expected and an optimistic scenario. The participant will receive an overview of the amount of the benefit if he chooses a variable benefit, but also of the amount when choosing a fixed benefit. In this way, the pension administrator helps the participant to make that choice. There's just a consultative duty. A number of members of this Chamber have therefore asked when the participants take over the responsibility for the investments. This can be done on the basis of the current law and will remain so if this bill is accepted. I would point out, for the record, that the participant in the benefit phase cannot assume responsibility for the investments. Mr Ulenbelt of the SP and Mrs De Vries of the VVD asked about the choices. They indicated that for the maximum effect of investing the participant should make a choice around the age of 40. That is when the investment risks are normally reduced. They're right about that. They're right about that. The participant may eventually decide to make the choice at the starting date of the pension but also at the time that this is relevant to the investments. In other words, if the pension provider wants to reduce investment policy, he asks the participant to opt for a fixed pension, in which the investments are indeed reduced, or to invest through, with which a variable pension is chosen. The statutory care obligation for pension practitioners therefore obliges the pension practitioners to submit the choice at that time. Indeed, reducing investment risks is crucial for the pension result and the risk of conversion. Mr Krol asked if this was an obligation. The answer to that is yes. The pension administrator asks for the participant's preference and bases the investment policy on it. In this way, it can be linked to the investment policy of each individual pension administrator. If a fixed year is chosen, for example from the 45th year onwards, to be passed into law or regulation, it may be possible for a pension administrator to start phasing out a year earlier or a year later and then get into trouble. I believe that this wording offers appropriate tailor-made solutions. Of course, it is still possible for the participants to opt for a variable pension benefit even after the retirement date. In her first term, Mrs De Vries asked how often a variable benefit can be changed to a fixed benefit. The CDA also asked this question during the written submission. The bill now includes two legal moments at which the participant can make the choice. The current bill does not oblige pension administrators to convert current benefits, but it is not prohibited either. This is therefore a matter for the contracting parties. I'll be on my fourth block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u25	We know the great involvement of the applicant in the large group of people who have been obliged to buy a pension in recent years at an extremely low rate of calculation. That group is now in danger of falling apart. Those people bought a fixed low pension. There is consultation to see if anything is possible, as the Secretary of State states in the note following the report on her bill. But why didn't the applicant consider including in the legislative proposal for this group, for the people who have already bought a fixed pension, the one-off possibility of converting it to a variable pension? In this way you make sure that everyone on a fixed date, let's say: in a year's time, once has that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u26	I think there are two categories to be distinguished. One category has used the pension cut. If the bill is adopted within the deadlines, it can still be used. The choice is not included in the bill because the law does not prevent contracts from being broken. I believe that this is something between contracting parties. At the moment when the law would impose it, there may be other consequences. For this reason it is not possible, but if the participant and the pension provider agree that the contract can be broken, then this is not hindered by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u27	It's not obstructed, but there's been a group that wasn't even entitled to a pension cut. We haven't been able to use any pension cuts for a year and a half. In the period in which we could make use of it, very little has been used. People have bought a pension at very low interest rates and interest rates have then fallen further. That is very pleasant in itself, because that means that the net present value of insurers' liabilities has increased. If you could turn it into a variable benefit in one go, you'd do those people a favor too. The applicant talks about the situation that both contracting parties agree, but I'm guessing the next thing is going to happen. I'm guessing that's what the individual wants and that the insurer says, "We're not doing it; you're stuck with us, so why should we offer it to you?" If that happens, then nothing happens and nobody has a right at all. Isn't there any way to include in this bill that there's one moment? I understand that you don't always, everywhere, at any time, for everyone, do this in a separate way where all these people can still make the choice for the initiative proposal, which the applicant didn't submit for nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u28	This is a fair question from Mr Omtzigt. The law doesn't hinder it. I might have a little more faith in the insurance companies. I think people are really stirring right now. We see that as pension speakers in our mailbox. A lot of people complain about this. At the moment when the bill has actually been adopted, I believe that insurers will also be generous in meeting this group. I cannot imagine that there should be a great deal of discussion about this. The Secretary of State has indeed indicated that she is also engaged in talks with the Association of Insurers. I think there's a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u29	I am getting exactly different signals, namely that insurers do not want to do this and will not do this voluntarily. If the applicant or the Secretary of State has any signs of the opposition, I would like to hear it. But if you want to settle it, this legal treatment is the time to do it. I would like to hear if the applicant has any signals that this will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u30	As I just said, I think insurers are looking at this legal treatment and the intention of the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt's comment and question are justified. I think the insurers will take their participants seriously. Once this bill has been passed, there is a broad feeling, both from the political and from society, that these people can benefit from this law. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to comment in a moment on the talks she has had with the Association of Insurers and the signals she has received.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mrs. Lodders' original bill allowed you to choose at your retirement age. Now it's brought forward to your 45th. Now I have the privilege that I've already been 45. I have to imagine how, if I had such a premium agreement at the time, I would have had to make that decision at that time. If I'm not a financial specialist, I can only rely on the blue eyes and the insurance company's paper, so I have to see an advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u32	To Mrs Vermeij or Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u33	Or to Mr Van Weyenberg; I don't care. Does the applicant realize what plight she can bring people around 45 years of age if they have to make such an essential decision as to what their situation will look like in 20 or perhaps 25 or 30 years of age if that increase in the AOW age of Van Weyenberg continues? Can you reasonably expect people at that age to be able to make that decision for the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr Ulenbelt spoke about the plight of participants. People are not very busy with their pensions; we are very much in agreement with each other. However, I think that participants are increasingly keen to look into pensions, especially in view of all the discussions on pensions. The obligation to provide information, as contained in the legislative proposal, means that information is to be provided on participation, i.e. at the start of a participation in a premium agreement. Information is provided annually at the UPO. At the time it is relevant to the investments, a pension administrator will have to contact the participant because he is asked to make a choice. If a participant cannot make that choice on the basis of all the information available, he can still opt for a fixed pension. After all, it is not an obligation. I think that given the way in which it is regulated in the Pension Communication Act and the way in which obligations are included in it, a participant should be able to make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u35	Are we not in great danger of getting the usury pension after the usury policy, with an insurer making wonderful promises for 30 years from now that will not come true? If you'd gone into it then, but those promises wouldn't be fulfilled, I'm sure you'd have been better off than variable. What happens then? I believe that we cannot reasonably submit this decision to the citizen, the pensioner. Only at that retirement age can I imagine anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u36	That is what Mr Ulenbelt and I do not agree on. I believe that this choice can be made on the basis of the information available, just when it becomes relevant to investments. This is the only way to extend the investment horizon. Again, I think that a participant would like to be interested in his or her retirement provision, even at a later age. I also think that there are sufficient information provisions that a participant can properly inform. Let us not forget that the operator has a duty of care. He will have to ensure that he informs the participant correctly and that he communicates about the benefits, but certainly also about the disadvantages. I have already indicated to Mrs Vermeij a number of times that it can actually be a lower pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u37	It was quite right that Mr Ulenbelt was standing here. In his own election programme, too, the age of AOW goes to 67. That concern is therefore very justified from his point of view. My question, however, was another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u38	However, you have made a point to Mr Ulenbelt. He has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr Van Weyenberg must stop talking nonsense for once. If our election programme had been implemented, the AOW age would still be 65. If he had followed that, he would not have had to ask those difficult questions about the fact that the SVB has to change all that. They caused that shit themselves. You don't have to be with me for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u40	Shall we save this discussion for another moment? I think it's been fed here a number of times. Let's not do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u41	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ulenbelt can read it all back in the pass-through of the electoral programme. I note that Mr Ulenbelt can bounce considerably better than he can expect the ball back. My question to Mrs Lodders is about Mr Omtzigt's point. This concerns the fact that there is a group of people who have not been able to use the pension cut for a year and a half. Mr Omtzigt is now asking whether we should not regulate this in the law. The applicant's reaction to this is still waiting. However, I have another question. The Secretary of State has promised to discuss this. The petitioner, of course, has extensively discussed or negotiated this law with the Secretary of State, whatever you want to call it. Has this been the subject of discussion? Has it perhaps been given the confidence that this problem, which I know the author also sees as a problem, will be adequately solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u42	We used the recess to work hard on the proposal as it is here. A lot of things have been discussed. I cannot say much more to Mr Van Weyenberg than I have just done to Mr Omtzigt. The current law does not prevent the opening of contracts. I can't see the consequences if you include in the law a fixed moment when you might be able to do that once. Again: listening to this debate, I think that insurers should take the many responses, emails and letters from participants seriously. I would suggest asking the Secretary of State to respond to the consultations she had with the Association of Insurance Companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u43	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u44	I will. The reason why I and I also think Mr Omtzigt are calling for this is that this is the time to clarify it. I wondered if there had been any contact with the author. I await the Secretary of State's response. If we can do this without a law change, that's fantastic. Well, that's what we need to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u45	These letters have been around for years. If insurers were to respond to letters, they would have done so voluntarily. Also, the current law did not always offer obstacles to doing things like a retirement cut. Does the performer really think there's any clues? Does the Commission intend to reply in the second term to the question whether it is prepared to come forward with a letter of amendment to settle this matter? I am considering this because, in the State Secretary's original bill, there was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to switch, namely from variable to fixed. That's also a possibility. Analogous to that original proposal of the Secretary of State, you could also once have the opportunity to move from fixed to variable. You'd have caught all the old cases. If it is difficult to introduce this on 1 July, I can also imagine that you will allow it to take place six months later, because there is a technical need for this. Would Mrs Lodders consider incorporating that reverse possibility into the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr Omtzigt's first remark, stating that the possibility already existed in the law, is correct. At the time, however, there was no added value in opening up the contracts, as interest rates were getting lower and lower. If you would then open a contract, it would be at the disadvantage of the participant, because there was also no option. There have been some interruptions on this point. I suggest we wait for the Secretary of State's response to this. Then we will certainly be discussing this in the second term. Of course, Mr Omtzig is also free to table a motion or amendment on this point. With integrating the cabinet bill, I have chosen to work with the projection rate. In the initiative proposal, I originally assumed a risk-free interest rate or hourly return. As Mr Van Weyenberg pointed out in his first term, that was a cautious choice. By opting now for the projection yield from the cabinet proposal, there is an additional choice. The projection rate is at least the risk-free interest rate chosen in the initiative proposal, but you can also opt for a risk-free interest rate with a premium for the expected investment profit. That premium shall not exceed 35% of the difference between the risk-free interest rate and the yield parameter for shares, as laid down in the Pension Fund Financial Review Framework Decision. For the collective variant, this bill is a member of the SZW variant for risk-free interest rates. The note on the basis of the further report discussed in detail the risk of opting for a projection interest rate with a premium for the expected investment profit in the collective variant. This can lead to a redistribution between participants. Since it is possible to choose in the collective variant to start the benefit higher, I would refer briefly to the note on the occasion of the further report "There will be no competition in terms of the amount of the benefit in the individual variant or in the collective variant. My fellow Members will immediately ask whether this can be understood by the participant; I think I am just ahead of Mr Omtzigt! For the participants it is important that they are informed about the pension payment in the case of a flat-rate benefit and a variable benefit. In the case of the variable benefit, it is important that participants are informed of a pessimistic, an expected and an optimistic scenario. On the basis of that information, they should be deemed to be able to make a choice. In the collective variant, the employer will also play a role in the provision of information. With regard to the level of the start-up payment, no interest-based competition shall take place between the individual and the collective variant. This is prevented by using a risk-free interest rate with a higher start-up benefit. The system takes place under the hood. For those interested, the information must of course be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u47	Yet this remains very strange. If you buy from a pension fund later, the risk-free interest rate of about 1% over the 20-year period should be included. If you purchase from an insurer, a projection interest rate of about 2.5% may be applied. That is 1.5% extra interest; that could mean 20% more benefit. An insurer can therefore advertise with the announcement that he has an additional 20% pension for the same amount, because he has a high projection interest rate. If the return is the same, the benefit falls with the insurer and increases with the pension fund. The levels then run into each other. The applicant says that this pension fund may be subject to a falling benefit, which makes up for all this. Has the performer lost me yet? I think so. I think I've lost the participant too, because the pension fund will have to record somewhere that there is a guaranteed decline. Why does the applicant not choose to charge insurers and pension funds with the same projection return, so that the offers are comparable? Otherwise, we're going to have a very strange market. Especially if Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment, which we are not in favour of, is accepted and you can go shopping freely. This will be a very strange market in which pension funds will have to count on low interest rates and thus always be able to provide a lower start-up payment. What do you get? Then the good risks will run away from the solidarity of pension funds. They go to the insurance companies. They're left with the bad risks. That's already happened before at the voluntary health insurance fund. It happens to everything. Then you're gonna eat the pension fund. Is the applicant prepared to ensure that the projection yields are the same in both variants? They run the same type of investment risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u48	In the original initiative proposal, I had proposed either to work with a risk-free interest rate or to opt for the U rate of return. There too I had two different forms of interest. In the combined proposal, we decided to work with the projection interest rate, in line with the government proposal. I understand the question and the ambiguity with Mr Omtzigt. I understand that the calculation system under the hood is taking shape. I have not yet seen Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment. I know he's in favour of a wide-ranging shopping right. I will look at the amendment in the suspension. I very much agree with Mr Omtzigt that competition can then take place. That wouldn't be right. In the legislative proposal, we have now chosen to apply the projection interest rate as set out in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u49	My amendment was referred to. I have another amendment that ensures that the same returns are always included. Of course, those two are connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u50	I will respond to the amendments in the second period. If participants were to make an assessment as Mr Omtzigt outlined, I would agree with him very much. But the calculation system takes place under the hood. There is no broad shopping law in this bill, so I think that competition is at least less than Mr Omtzigt indicates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u51	The broad shopping right isn't there, but you can just have a neighbor. That neighbor says: I'm with an insurer, I've built up the same capital, I've got $50,000 in the pot and now my pension fund has $50,000 in the pot. Then there's just going to be a comparison: what can you buy? People can also make collective transfers of value, from a pension fund to an insurer. That is what happens at the moment when a pension fund closes. Those comparisons will therefore be made and these comparisons will be totally flawed if this legislative proposal continues. That's what the performer says. Would it not be logical, then, for Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment on that equal projection rate, namely that risk-free interest rate, to have tabled a similar amendment, which seems to be very similar and to be submitted as a letter of amendment? Then you don't have a weird comparison and make the pension system, which is already getting quite complicated, not necessarily more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u52	I hear Mr Omtzigt. I understand that another amendment has been tabled. I shall come back to that in the second time, in response to the amendments. By the way, I say to him that at the moment, especially members of the pensionable age, participants are also comparing contracts in the current situation. This can lead to many differences and at least leads to questions. I shall come back to the amendments later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u53	It may also be appropriate to indicate how much time you think you need, in connection with the planning and the request for a third deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u54	Not that long, just a few more minutes. I'm coming to the last cup. A number of questions have been asked that did not fit into the cubes, but of course I am happy to answer them. Mrs De Vries asked whether the so-called high-layer construction is possible. I can be brief about that. This construction is possible in this bill. The high-low structure, through which a higher pension is received in the first years and a lower pension later, is already possible within the Pension Act and therefore also in the case of a variable pension. Mrs Vermeij and Mr Ulenbelt asked whether the costs of advice could be deducted from the tax. As a liberal, I am not a fan of paying taxes, but the deduction of consultancy costs from the tax is not part of this bill. Mrs De Vries, Mrs Mulder and Mr Ulenbelt have asked whether people who have already retired can still make use of this bill. I believe that we have already discussed this in detail. Mrs Vermeij asked about the administrative burden and the costs. Developing and offering a variable pension benefit is associated with slightly higher costs than a fixed benefit. This is expected to be slightly less than 1 million a year in the coming years. This can also be read in the cabinet bill. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the ban on commissioning was applicable. The fees of an intermediary, an independent financial advisor, shall be subject to the commission prohibition. This means that these costs must not be excluded from pension capital. The costs of the pension administrator on the basis of which the participant can make his choices are part of the execution costs of the pension administrator. The prohibition of commission shall not apply to this. I have to put it right: not applicable. I came even faster than I thought at the end of my speech. I hope that I have answered the questions adequately in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u55	We shall now proceed to the second term. Oh, I forgot the Secretary of State. Mrs Lodders spoke in such a way that I had the impression that this was the end of the first term. Fortunately, Mr Van Weyenberg, you did not say this in the interrupting microphone. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u56	Mr. Chairman. I actually like it, because I am sitting here as the adviser to the author of the bill. I can be brief, because the debate between the author of the bill and the Chamber has already taken place, including in the case of interruptions, which will undoubtedly be discussed again in the second term. We, the petitioner and the consultant, can, in the suspension after the second term, set the clocks in order to speak with one voice in our second term, as we are doing now with this one legislative proposal. That seems to me to be very pleasurable for the clarity of the treatment. I also welcome the fact that we are now working on a single legislative proposal. In addition, I am pleased that the Chamber has planned a new date for the debate so quickly, because that will keep the pressure on. The House's proposal for a third-term order of business may allow us to end this debate today. That is also pleasant, and I thank the Chamber for that. I can, of course, deal with all the different cases, but I will not do so for the sake of time, except for one case, namely a remaining question that was asked to me in the first period and which is now also emerging in an interruption. During the first period of the debate on the initiative proposal, questions were asked about the reduction of pensions and the opening up of contracts. I would discuss this issue with insurers today, but now this debate is scheduled for today. The discussions have been moved because of this debate and will take place within a few weeks. In preparation for the consultation, the Association of Insurers informed me by letter about the state of play, the working methods and the information on the retirement cut. This shows that insurers have adapted their information on the retirement cut following the AFM's investigation. I would, of course, like to inform your Chamber of the outcome of my consultation with the insurers. For the sake of clarity, I propose that both the applicant and I should go into more detail in our second term on how we intend to deal with insurers and the opening up of contracts, because that is a legitimate question on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u57	Well, that sounds good to me, but I do have a question. Does the Secretary of State have any indication that this is gonna work out for this group of people? Is the agreement made with the insurers that they will still offer an opening for the group that could not make use of the pension cut for a year and a half? We'll get to the details later. Is there a little perspective for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u58	That is precisely the key factor in my contribution to the discussion with the insurers. I can't preach to that, but I have the same wish as the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mrs. Vermeij... no, Mr. Van Weyenberg, I see. I thought he was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u60	I understand that and that was also the result of the first part of the answer, but the last sentence triggered me. I would appreciate it if, in the second term, we could get some idea of the probability. That things have not yet been completed, I understand, but it has implications for my group's judgment whether we think we can call on the Secretary of State to conclude things or whether a legal route should be followed. That's why I'd get a little more guidance in second term from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u61	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u62	In merging two laws, not only are two laws merged, but also a number of draft decisions and AMvBs are still under discussion. Those AMvBs also have some hooks and eyes, including an obligation to invest on a life cycle basis, including in existing pension contracts, which means that a lot has to be broken open. It's something that just came up recently, and we're really getting hit with it. I would like to announce that I will ask a number of questions about this in the second term, but it is nevertheless useful to use this moment to ask the Secretary of State to comment on this. I would very much like for there to be a veil and for there to be extensive consultation with the pension sector. It's all under very high pressure. I understand that, but I find the idea that a lot of contracts that are already under way must be broken open by this law to be very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u63	This has become short-lived for me, too. I would like to assure you that, of course, we are in contact with those who have to do so around the further establishment of the AMvB. I would also like to look at whether we can shape the veil properly in time. Of course, it's nice if that AMvB can come into effect as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u64	I'm gonna start with the word "studying," 'cause we're gonna take care of it differently. The Chamber is doing this under quite high pressure and is prepared to do so. We must also take our task seriously. My group tends to adopt this law, but if it includes a number of decisions that have far-reaching obligations for many existing regulations, then we need to know that now. I don't want that, I'm just gonna add it. So I'd really like a veil and otherwise we'll see this back in the second or third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u65	I understand Mrs Vermeij very well and I think that Mrs Vermeij also understood me correctly. I am absolutely not against a veil, but we are all in favour of the urgency of the whole. I also understand that the Chamber wants to help greatly in this; so that is nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u66	On this point, I would like to know whether the Secretary of State himself is coming up with a form of veil or whether we need to come up with an amendment or whether she would like to see a single procedure for the first time, if the time pressure is so high that it is in parallel in the Chamber and in the Council of State. All options are possible. We want to see the proposal before it enters into force and we can possibly make a decision on it, but we hope, of course, that it will not be necessary and that there will be a workable outcome. That's my first question. My second question is a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u67	Shall we get the Secretary of State to answer the first question first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u68	I would like to give an insight into the procedure for the establishment of the AMvB, because then the Chamber does not have to amend. Then the Chamber itself can consider whether that procedure has been sufficiently explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u69	And now the complicated question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u70	Okay. We shall be hearing this procedure in a second period. Then we know what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u72	The complicated question is the following. In fact, part of Mrs Lodder's legislative proposal is the document of the Secretary of State which came in through an amendment. One of them concerns the difference in projection interest rates. In the note following the further report we received from the Secretary of State, all this was expressed in percentage terms in the graphs rather than in euros. The CDA Group would like to see in euros what happens if you place a pension fund capital with a pension fund and what happens if you place that same pension capital with an insurer. The CDA Group has just asked Mrs Lodders to do the same. Now that this has become relevant as a result of Mrs Lodder's letter of amendment, but the information on this lies with the Secretary of State, I ask the Secretary of State if she might be able to give us those states in euros before her second term. Then we can see how big the difference is between the current projection yields in the examples was that 1% and 3% of a pension fund and an insurer, and then we also know how necessary it is to think about an amendment at the weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u73	I propose the following, because this question is indeed rather complicated and the time to the second term is short. I'm gonna go see what I can do at this point. In the second term, of course, we will be discussing the differences in projection interest rates in any case. I have very good staff, not from that, but I really want to see if we can do this very quickly. If not, we will have to do it orally again and again. I have, of course, followed Mr Omtzigt's interruption. He has really tried to justify that the offers about insurers and funds are really a matter of attention. I'm gonna study on this during the suspension, but not only that, I'm gonna act on it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u74	You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u75	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I thought, "Let me do staccato."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u76	Very good. Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office, but I miss Mr Ulenbelt, because he is the first speaker. Oh. Yeah, how are we gonna do that? Then we just start with Mrs Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u77	Mr. Chairman. There's a manifestation on the Square. I should have been there, too. There's Mr. Ulenbelt. I think that's kind of painful, so I'm just gonna say it for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u78	I don't know any of that, Mrs. Vermeij. I have to keep track of that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u79	No, but that's why I thought I'd go to the interrupting microphone anyway. We know we have a debate here. I would have liked to be in two places at once. Mr Ulenbelt is not here. I find this very annoying, because we are dealing with a law here and it is not an official committee activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u80	No. Mr Ulenbelt speaks to the masses, I understand. Can anyone tell me how long that'll take? No? Then I'll go on, Mrs. Vermeij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u81	In such cases, I wonder how we are dealing with the fact that Mr Ulenbelt will be back in the Chamber, looking at us very nicely and asking if he can make his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u82	I would ask you to take the floor and give Mr Ulenbelt the floor. I shall now begin with Mrs Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u83	Mr. Chairman. I am curious about the very sweet face that Mr Ulenbelt will set up to seduce us. I would like to thank the initiator and the Secretary of State for the first-term response. I am glad to hear that what has changed in the Chamber has really been listened to on the moments of choice. We have said that the moment of phasing out investment risks is a very important moment. For this, a decision has now been made in the legislative proposal. I congratulate the initiator and the Secretary of State for the fact that it has succeeded in bringing the two proposals together in the short term. This turned out to be an explicit wish of the House of Representatives in the first term. The present bill offers even more options and also offers a collective variant as included in the cabinet proposal. A limited shopping right has also been introduced. This also offers more options and the VVD is in favour of that. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is therefore a good proposal. That does not mean that the VVD does not have a number of questions and proposals. First of all, a question about the form. The explanatory memorandum refers in many cases to the explanatory memorandum accompanying the State Secretary's legislative proposal. That is, of course, practical, but in the end the Secretary of State's bill will no longer exist. Isn't this gonna cause any problems in the end? I'm coming to the projection rate. This has already been discussed in the first term. For the individual variant it becomes possible to choose a maximum projection rate. In addition, projection interest rates are at least risk-free market interest rates, but risk-free interest rates can also be used with limited storage. For the collective variant, only the risk-free interest rate is chosen. The sector, employers and employees want an equal projection rate, otherwise it would become unnecessarily complex. The Secretary of State opted for two different projection interest rates because it wants to be able to include the expected return in the individual variant. The collective variant cannot do that, because it is expected that this will lead to redistribution. Therefore, in the collective variant, the risk-free projection rate was chosen. The variation of the declining benefit is technically in order, but is difficult to explain. This has just been mentioned several times by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg. However, this proposal from the government's bill has been accepted by Mrs Lodders. We would like a response from the initiator and the State Secretary to show why two different projection rates were finally chosen. We are not in favour of ex ante redistribution effects. We believe that this should be clarified, and we are therefore considering tabling a motion on that point in the third term. In the debate during the first term, there was a large consensus that if no choice is made, the fixed pension should be considered a default option. That discussion was mainly about the individual variant. The VVD is in favour of this in the individual variant. We think that is a good solution. When it comes to the collective variant, you can look at it differently. In the present legislative proposal, the fixed pension is also the default option for the collective variant. A number of parties, including employers and employees, but also the sector, indicate that they would like to have it redesigned. We believe that this would be better, and that is why we have tabled an amendment. That amendment has now been distributed. We believe that it is important to create mass in the collective variant as well, and that an opt-out variant is in addition to that. I've already said all the necessary things about shopping law. I shall now turn to the fact that we are spreading our disappointments and disappointments, because that is not in the original initiative proposal. The VVD does not necessarily prefer this, but you should always be careful about spreading the risks. It's important not to push too much. However, the VVD also followed the discussion during the first term. Can the initiator indicate that any windfalls may be spread, but that they must be booked unconditionally? Since the distribution period in the merged bill is optional, the VVD can still agree to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u84	I have a question about Mrs De Vries' amendment. I have heard that, in particular, we would like to see a different default on arrangements for choosing the collective. Does this option apply only to schemes that are by definition collective? Or does Mrs De Vries say that such a default is no longer a default if you can choose between defaults? I'm just gonna say this complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u85	That was indeed very complicated. As far as we are concerned, in the individual variant, the default option is not a choice; it is fixed there. That was also stated in the original initiative proposal. We think that's a good choice. In this case, it's actually more about a carbendazim to make it complicated as well as opt-out or opt-in variant. If people don't make a choice, they're gonna belong to the collective. They must, however, be provided with very good information. We believe that this is a better option to create real mass and make the collective work well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u86	If I understand correctly, then it is also up to Mrs De Vries to make the collective variant fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u87	Yes. My final point is banking savings. The VVD has drawn attention to this before. The legislative proposal for an improved contribution scheme offers more opportunities for a better pension. Our question is whether bank savings can also contribute to this, possibly supplemented by ensuring the longevity risk during the distribution phase. Perhaps this will give participants even more opportunities to obtain higher pension benefits. We shall table a motion for this in the third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u88	Mr. Chairman. I thank the author for her reply and look forward to the follow-up. Today, I believe, we are doing something important in retirement country: we make it possible to invest after retirement, while at the same time making the contribution schemes available less dependent on that one purchase moment. Today, too, we have been able to see the sometimes very painful examples of this. So that's good. I am also pleased that the two legislative proposals, the initiative proposal by Mrs Lodders and the cabinet proposal, have been merged from the Chamber following the broad call for them. That does indeed shine a lot nicer. In my contribution I will explain how I want to polish further on the new variant. In view of the responsible, careful and thorough preparation of the debate, it would still have been my preference if this merger had taken place much earlier. In the written rounds, too, we could have asked much more specific and more comprehensive technical questions. However, we are now where we stand. I will therefore explain in detail what the two D66 amendments are about. In particular, I agree with the parties who have referred to these General Management Measures and their major impact. We assume that in the second term we will hear that this is being done. I think that is extremely important. This has a lot of impact and I think that the Chamber should be able to do its job, with full understanding of the time pressure and the pace. A number of strong cases have been merged, such as, for example, the default for the participant in the fixed pension allowance. This way you will not be confronted with a variable pension that you were not aware of at all that you had chosen. I think that's wise. The same applies to the fact that you are now allowed to be prudent in spreading disappointments and disappointments. I find that interesting, but unfortunately something has also disappeared. Mrs Lodders' original bill established the benefit on the basis of risk-free interest rates. In that case, the participant always lives in the knowledge that there is "underpromise, overdeliver." We are very prudent at the beginning and we expect it to turn out later that the benefit is higher than in the very prudent scenario of the risk-free interest rate calculated. The motto "overpromise, underdeliver" shows how things have gone too often in the past as far as I am concerned, so we liked the starting point "underpromise, overdeliver." However, the compromise reached is in line with the Secretary of State's proposal. An individual scheme may be based on a projection return and on a collective scheme of risk-free interest rates. For this, a time-delay benefit is put on the market, not because we think it is a useful product, but in order to allow the two scenarios to compete better with each other at the initial choice. My group believes that this does not deserve the beauty prize. We have therefore tabled an amendment. That will be amended and co-signed by my colleague, Mr Vermeij. The amendment states that, in all the schemes, we are based on risk-free interest rates and that there is the possibility of opting for falling pension benefits in both variants, collectively and individually. This choice can then be made by people because it is best suited to their expected spending pattern and not to put one variant in a different position than the other. If people can make an assessment, we think that it will be very complex and that people will not understand it either. It's already complicated for an expert, let alone for someone who isn't busy with pensions every day. That is why we are tabling this amendment, which is being prepared in a modified form. It's coming up, but it's busy at the Legislative Office, so I understand it takes some time. The second point that my group very much appealed to in the first legislative proposal of the Secretary of State, and I actually expect that this also applies to the VVD, which is that they had a shop right in it, as it is called in the jargon. The moment you got into the benefit phase, you could choose where you wanted it to be carried out. Under pressure from the social partners, I said that in the first term too, the pension funds disappeared. I find that very disappointing. That is why D66 has tabled an amendment on this point. We certainly have the impression that the concerns of pension administrators, namely that members of their own interest might perhaps have chosen another performer, have been dominant in this rather than the interest of the participant in finding out for himself where he can get the best pension for his money. I find that very unfortunate, and that is why we have tabled an amendment which returns to the Secretary of State's original proposal, namely that the participant should be able to choose where he wants to have the benefit stage carried out. Then the interest of the participant is central and not that of the institutions. I hope the House will support this. I will ask the applicant why she did not make that choice. Apart from my amendment, I still have a factual question about what is actually in the legislative proposal. Once again, I would like to change that, but what is now before my group produces some confusion. How big is the remaining watered down shopping law in the bill we're dealing with? Will performers be obliged to offer people the choice between a fixed benefit and a flexible benefit or can people choose between an individual one and a collective one? Do I read correctly that if there is a collective variable benefit and you would like an individual benefit, then according to the bill it is no longer possible to choose because there is a variable benefit? I'd find that really disappointing. However, I fear that this is the right reading. If it's different, I'd love to hear it. My party simply wants to go back to the original plan: the participant can choose on a pension date which type of benefit he likes most and for whom he gives the most value for his deposited pension euros. On the retirement cut, I await the answers of the Secretary of State in particular. I really hope she can say that there is a solution for those who have not been able to make the choice in the one and a half years between the two pension cuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u89	I know D66 as a party very much in favour of the individual and freedom of choice, where my party attaches a great deal of importance to collectivity and solidarity, but sometimes it comes together. Mr Van Weyenberg says that he would like to see the original proposal in which you could choose on a pension date. Is the applicant's argument, however, that this choice, however complicated, should be made earlier, since the investment must be phased out or changed in advance of the pension date? De facto, that's actually an impossibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u90	I thank Mrs Vermeij for that question, because I said it too short. I thought, "Let's not get too deep into technology." I would also add in our amendment that you make that choice a number of years earlier. That's all there is to it. The fundamental difference of opinion with the cabinet is what I have emphasized, but I am glad to be able to clarify that. It is always up to you to make the choice. Yes, you can make that choice in our variant a little sooner, because we think you can get the most value for your euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u91	We will then be back to the old debate, but I would like to do so at another time with Mr Van Weyenberg. I believe that too many choices on the part of the individual participant do not lead to greater clarity and a better pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u92	However, some things that collectively happen under the guise of solidarity have in practice the perverse effect that people with lower incomes contribute to the pension of people with higher incomes. I do not think that is the solidarity that Mrs Vermeij and I stand for. I am waiting to see what the Secretary of State comes up with when it comes to consulting the insurers about the people that the Money Interest Foundation is so committed to. Then I have a factual question about communication. In the pension world, not only mathematics, but also communication is extremely complex. The participant will soon have to choose on the basis of three scenarios between a fixed and a variable distribution. That choice is already very complicated for an expert, let alone for someone who only wants to go into his life once. There will be an independent committee to determine the scenarios. That is good, but what safeguards are in place to ensure that it is really an independent committee? Is there also a study of the behavioural effects resulting from this? We believe it is conceivable that, if scenarios are chosen that are just a little more favourable or less unfavourable, they could have major behavioural effects. Did you get a look at that? I would like to thank the applicant and the Secretary of State for the adjustments. I hope that this debate, with the two amendments and hopefully a good answer on the issue of people stuck between the two retirement cuts, can be concluded properly. I'm looking forward to seeing the AMB. Then we can treat the law carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u93	Mr. Chairman. This bill has undergone a transformation. It began as the law payout pension in pension units, a bill with a clear vision. Then came the bill of the Secretary of State, the Variable Pensions Act. It was much more extensive, unclear and on crucial issues there were quite different choices, compared to those in the own-initiative proposal. However, you can only design a variable pension in one way, so we could not have two legislative proposals. Our proposal was to combine the best of both legislative proposals. The CDA Group was pleased that the initiator and the Secretary of State went round the table together during the recess to come up with a joint proposal. However, the result has surprised us a little. In fact, the initiator has begun to defend the government bill. The seven pages of the original bill were amended with a letter of amendment of 12 pages until the proposal was almost in line with the government's proposal, except for two points. We have already dealt with these points. I am curious to see the initiator's reasons for making this major change and leaving the title of the law intact, while pension units are actually half gone. I'm gonna come back to the tension in the bill. This tension is linked, on the one hand, to the freedom of choice which Mr Van Weyenberg is calling even harder for and, on the other hand, to the question of solidarity. There's only one thing you can do. If you put everyone in the same group and offer reasonably limited freedom of choice, you have a high degree of risk sharing. You can also give people the opportunity to step out of the group. If they can get out, you offer a great deal of freedom, but you don't have much risk sharing. Because of everything that is on the table, these two models get mixed up a bit, especially with all the proposals made from the Chamber. If insurers allow people to leave that group, they, like health insurance companies, will do their best to get people who do not need care in the insurance system, because the settlement system does not work perfectly, do their best to keep the people out of the stock to whom they have to pay relatively little pension. Call me men with unhealthy professions, briefly. They like to leave healthy women in the pension fund, leaving the longevity risk there. We have seen this at the voluntary health insurance fund, which I mentioned earlier. We have also seen it in several other places. That is why my group, not fundamentally opposed to shopping rights, has great difficulty with the shopping right that is already in this area, and especially with the amendments proposed by D66, because it thinks that this would actually make pension funds impossible at the benefit stage with an available premium scheme. That is what we do not want at all. The original bill was slightly better on the point that there were not too many different interest rates in it. We have just tabled an amendment, namely No. 17. This is very similar to the amendment tabled by Mr Weyenberg and Mrs Vermeij. We shall put the amendments together. I believe that we want the same thing on this point, namely that there is some kind of comparability in the system. I will therefore be able to understand myself with these two colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u94	Mrs De Vries mentioned an investigation into the level playing field. Both amendments now take the form of risk-free. You could also look at prudent expected returns. Does Mr Omtzig agree with me that we should take a look at this, in addition to these amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u95	We can certainly look at that. I've considered both. I also had an amendment ready to put both on the projection efficiency. In fact, I found it more logical to put them both on the risk-free return, because, as Mr Weyenberg said, that is the expected return on the fixed benefit. Maybe it'll be a little more beneficial after that. So I'm kind of leaning towards a not-too-high-risk storage. I thought it was rather chic what Mr Van Weyenberg said: then you can assume a maximum limit, descending down, but then you have to opt for it explicitly. Well, you'll make up for that if the return isn't too bad, we'll just say. So I thought that was kind of a fancy solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u96	I thought so, too. That is why we have been in agreement to do it together. Nevertheless, a level playing field would also be conceivable at the level of projection efficiency. It is not for nothing that the collective scheme has opted for. Since we do not know that yet and we are under this enormous pressure of time, my question is whether Mr Omtzigt would like to examine this with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u97	Yes, but then I'll come to another part of my speech to the Secretary of State. If you buy a fixed pension, you could say: you will get €1,000 per month. If you buy variablely, you could say, because you can work with a higher projection yield: you get €1,200 per month, and we think this amount is still going up. My hesitation lies in the choice between projection efficiency and return when you opt for a fixed benefit. I don't want to give people the illusion that it's always higher and always better. Because unfortunately it is not always that; you take a certain risk if you continue investing. We have seen many times, with usury policies for clarity: these are not those that can represent a risk too beautiful and too rosy. I'm afraid you're actually doing that if you opt for too high projection efficiency. If we are talking about the simplicity of the original initiative proposal, why did the initiator choose to maintain her own system of unitary benefits, but according to the government's proposal to incorporate the factors that influence the benefit, namely interest, return and the development of life expectancy, into the unit price? Wouldn't one unit price have been much and much simpler? An allocation circle can then be established by giving that circle its own investment fund. All possible risks of the variable pension are then included in the rate of pension units. I have already asked a question about shop law in the event of interruption. I await the answer in the second term. In fact, I have a preference for what Mrs Lodder's original legislative proposal contained, namely to place shopping law in the insurance sector and not in pension funds. However, pension funds should be allowed to offer both a fixed and a variable pension. I would rather be inclined to force the pension funds to work out both variants. The Secretary of State has not yet been able to explain clearly why, in the case of a variable pension, the liabilities are always covered by values. Maybe the initiator can. Let me give you an example. Suppose: a participant with a variable pension has pension units with a value of €10. In year two the returns are disappointing and the new value of pension units is €9. However, the participant receives €9.80 because it is smeared. How can a liability of €9.80 now be covered by values, whereas the value at that time is €9? How is this taken into account in the solidarity circle for the person who joins the solidarity circle in that year? If he joins against €9 and also reduces those four years of the people who were already in it, is it attractive to join that circle at that time? In this respect, Mrs Lodders' proposal was initially simpler. We have another question about the PPI. I'll try to explain it to you. Imagine a three-month increase in life expectancy in the Netherlands. This is included in the system of the bill by reducing the pension benefits. However, if you are a PPI with a relatively healthier or younger file, it may be that in your own file life expectancy increases by four months. That last month will be the responsibility of the PPI. If the PPI is lucky, life expectancy increases by two months. The essence is that the PPI thus has an outcome that differs from the average life expectancy. That's a biometric risk. It is now legally prohibited for a PPI to run a biometric risk. Then how can a PPI perform something that inherently carries a biometric risk? The result is never exactly the average life expectancy, in any circle. I have a few loose remarks to make. Is the pension in units now a species of the genus variable pension? Is the Secretary of State prepared to submit the draft AMvB to the Chamber and will she promise that if we want it to be different, it will also be different? That is, of course, the crux of whether we are putting a veil on each amendment or not. If the Secretary of State says, "I'll send him to the Chamber, but if you tell him to do something different, we'll do it differently," then we can skip the veil the first time, but otherwise we'll just have to put the veil in. Is the government really very important to all those people who have already bought it, ready to work out a once-in-a-lifetime buy-back option for participants who have already bought in at this very low interest rate? That must really be settled before the votes, because then there is pressure on the insurers. Then they can sit back. I think we're all gonna get a half-and-half pension. If the Secretary of State and the applicant would like to comment on the fact that a lot of people will probably say, as Mrs Vermeij said: we are holding half and half we are doing variable. A lot of people want to have a certain degree of solidity. This needs to be somewhat accommodated in the lower regulations in order to be able to choose a mixture of these.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u98	Mr. Chairman. You always point out to us when we speak in this house in riddles. This bill also threatens to go down a bit. That is why I would like to go back to the very beginning and ask why we are doing this again. That has to do with a long-cherished wish in this Chamber. A wish, as I say quite frankly, which has also been inspired by a number of other parties to invest in the premium schemes, which are not often collective pension schemes, and in the capital schemes after your pension, and so to make it variable. That gives, as I said in my first term, a chance. Calculations show that it gives a chance to receive a higher pension, because you work with fewer securities. However, it also brings with it risks, because it can also be a little less than the fixed scheme you had before. In doing so, we perfect a premium scheme and make another intermediate model. We in the Netherlands are always very good at this, and in the area of pensions. That often makes it very difficult to explain it to people. My first question is to the applicant, but also to the Secretary of State. If you peel off what you can choose, it's gonna be a lot. The exporter may opt for an individual scheme or a collective scheme. Inside, you can again choose between the scattering of windfalls and setbacks. You have a high/low construction and you have the macro-longevity risk. It has become a kind of Christmas tree of steps, with all options. I think it is also clear to the outside world to make things clear. What will be on the board of the pension administrator next to things to offer and choices to make, and what will be on the board of the participant? And at what stage of the participant's life does that happen? Does it happen at the age of 45, Mr Ulenbelt? Then what are you charging someone with? At the same time, an early choice can also have advantages. After all, we often find in this house that people are waiting far too long to think about their pensions. Anyway, it's all got hooks and eyes on it. That is what I wanted to say here, because this proposal for an initiative is now very worrying. There are four questions for my group. Before I make that statement, I would like to thank both the initiator and the government for their willingness to put the whole thing together, to say it disrespectfully. What has come out of it has once in a while puzzled me, I say quite frankly, but it has been a great wish of all of us to make this one legislative proposal. The fact that this movement has been made, including on the part of the government, is very commendable to me. We very much support that. First of all, those projection returns. I have read neither in the letter of amendment nor in the accompanying letter the redeeming word as to why they should be different for individual or collective regulation. There's something else I'd like to add to that. I am heavily lobbied about this bill, but not by the insurers, and that is always a bad sign. Because it means that they're dumb-ass. Otherwise they'd come by, but they'd never come by when they're very happy about something. That's their right, too. That's how it works in that field. I think a level playing field is important. I've been thinking about how to do that. I also think that we should look closely at this in an investigation. So I'd be happy to join the VVD if we look in second term to see if we should table a motion on that. At the same time, we need to regulate that level playing field in the law, too, I think, to give that collective variant a real, fair chance. That is why I tabled the amendment together with Mr Van Weyenberg. Moreover, Mr Omtzigt has tabled the same type of amendment. My second question concerns default. I must honestly admit that in the first period I called for a default, that I supported that and that I hoped that the government proposal would also include a default, a fixed pension. This raises some questions, as a number of collective schemes might be affected by this decision. However, I wonder. I'm telling you the truth, I'm not sure. Can the applicant and the Secretary of State still reflect on that? For my group, a default, a fixed pension, is still a very good starting point. So I am also pleased that this was finally included in the proposal. My third question concerns the underlying decisions. This is a law, but underneath it is an AMvB and so there are still a lot of regulations on which to base. I have already pointed this out in an interruption, but I would also like to mention it now. The obligation to invest a life cycle in the building-up phase for all premium schemes is therefore based on Article 1 (c) of the draft Decision. This is amended in the third paragraph of Article 14d. This will be mandatory from 1 July 2016. It is very difficult to implement in this short term. It violates existing agreements and products. For members of existing non-life cycle contributions, this could also be a disadvantage for their pension benefits; at least that is what I am told. I don't think that's what I'm trying to do. It's probably not necessary either. The draft decision also makes a number of statements on communication. The draft decision contains a number of passages on the possible pension outcomes for members of those pension funds. They lead to many questions in the pension sector. In view of this, too, I would like to call for consultation and for this to be put before the Chamber so that we can take a closer look at it. This bill shows that communication about retirement is more important than ever to keep it understandable and make it understandable to people. We're trying to improve premium schemes here, but it shouldn't get bogged down in a range of options, so the participant can't see the forest through the trees and thinks: I'm not doing anything for a while; I'm sitting in my chair. Communication must be fair about the risk of people walking or not walking and it must be clear and timely. Does the applicant consider that the current legal environment is sufficient in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u99	Mr. Chairman. Following the second letter of amendment, we are dealing with a substantially modified own-initiative proposal. In short, you could say that the strengths of Mrs Lodder's original initiative and the strengths of the government's proposal are combined with them. 50PLUS is therefore mostly positive about the result. The legislative proposal can provide a solution in the foreseeable future. This brings the solution to a major pension problem. The proposal provides ample scope for a pension based on the price value of pension units. That fits in well with the implementation practice. There will also be room for other forms of variable pension, and that is profit. New is the possibility to share the investment risk collectively. That is a very important point for 50PLUS. This was missing from the original proposal. We are sincerely pleased that Mrs Lodders has incorporated this important part of the government proposal in her amended initiative law. 50PLUS also welcomes the fact that the option is available to spread coincidences and setbacks over time and that the possibility is offered to ensure longevity risk or to share collectively. Considering everything, it seems an understandable choice to choose a fixed pension benefit as a default if the participant does not make a choice. However, it remains a dilemma whether the fixed pension is always the best if no active choice is made. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to the comments of the Pension Federation and the Labour Foundation, which are critical of this. I'd like to get a reaction to that. I would also like to be briefed on other points, such as risk-free interest rates, U-rewards and project interest rates. Many questions have already been asked about this, so I would like to join in. As far as shopping law is concerned, I am sure that a participant who wants a variable payment can always opt for an individual variant or a variant with a collective allocation. The comments received yesterday from Adfiz argue for free advice, for better transparency of the costs of the variable pension and for the possibility of giving a participant in an apf right to transfer value on the pension date. Those seem to be good suggestions. I would like to hear Mrs Lodder's opinion on this. What is it going to do with these proposals? One very important point, I note, is that this is important for more colleagues. It is that we do not want people who, because of the extremely low interest rates in which they had to buy their pension and could not use the retirement cut, to be hurt. They are now stuck with a much lower than expected pension. We're very curious about what's coming out of the talks the Secretary of State is going to have with the Association of Insurers. Together with colleagues from at least the VVD and D66 I have a motion ready. I hope we get so much clarity that that motion will not be necessary. I would very much like to hear what the Secretary of State has to say about this. In conclusion, I would once again like to congratulate Mrs Lodders and the Secretary of State for their great commitment to broadening the legal framework for the variable pension, with due regard for the interests of the pension consumer and limiting the risks inherently associated with the variable pension. People must choose and know the possible consequences of their choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u100	Mr. Chairman. It started with a very simple initiative proposal to solve a small problem. The proposal had to make it possible to continue investing after the retirement age. We're talking about something super wrapped. Some drop the word "Christmas Tree." You're gonna need choice advisors later. Soon, for example, Mrs Vermeij and my son will have to make essential decisions for their financial future in 20, 25, 30 years. That's not gonna be fun. Now that I have heard the whole debate, my opinion is that Mrs Lodder withdraws her letter of amendment and simply returns to the old proposal. So we have a solution to the original problem. Although, a solution? I still need to see that. In that proposal too, the feeling of swiss life could become a very anxious feeling, namely that you watch what the fair does every morning. The scholarship becomes a determining factor for your pension. I don't think that's funny. I do have another option to offer a little more certainty. I included it in my amendment, which would allow you to transfer your capital to a pension fund, provided that you have been a participant in that pension fund before. That's a form of security. There's a little bit of investment in that too. Now pension funds can refuse. That amendment will undo that refusal. I am very curious to see how the Secretary of State and the applicant respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u101	So do I, because I have looked at the amendment with interest. So I too am curious about the reaction. I would like to come back to the fact that Mr Ulenbelt is concerned that people's pensions will soon be dependent on how things are going on the stock market or how interest rates are developing. Should he not be honest and say that this is no different in practice today, for example for people sitting at a pension fund? I understand Mr Ulenbelt's wish for certainty, but isn't the painful reality that that certainty isn't already there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u102	There is indeed a great deal of uncertainty, but that is not so much because of the investment results of pension funds. That is a completely different discussion, which is about the ECB's interest rate, monetary policy and all of it. What is going to happen now is that, on an individual level, stock exchange prices will determine the fluctuations in your pension. Now we know from the pension world that people at that age want security. If you ask whether people prefer a certain and lower pension or a higher variable pension, the vast majority still opt for the lower, secure pension. In Mrs. Lodder's bill, you could still choose that variant. I can do that now, but I'm gonna have to make that choice when I'm 45. I already have sleepless nights because of the people who are going to be 45 and have to make this choice. I'd prefer to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u103	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u104	All those e-mails that we now receive from people about that issue of the Foundation Money Interests are about the fact that they do want to get that choice. I assumed that we would also find Mr Ulenbelt on our side. He says: also individually keep people a choice. That's fine. The reality, however, is that it will affect individual pensioners in pension funds even today and also without choice if the stock exchanges go down sharply tomorrow. That's what we've seen in the past few years. Unfortunately, we see it today. I understand Mr Ulenbelt's concern, but unfortunately it is not the reality that this is not the case in the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u105	In fact, Mr Van Weyenberg says that what is being proposed now is no better than what we have now. Well, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u106	No, Mr Van Weyenberg. It's really...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr President, this is, of course, real bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u108	You're luring each other out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u109	If Mr Ulenbelt says this kind of crazy thing, I think I can just respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u110	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u111	The point is that this law makes sure that people get to choose something. That's the point of profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u112	Choice stress, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u113	Thank you. Someone's got to have the last word, I understand. In this case, I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u114	After the suspension, we'll start the arrangement. Then the initiator will have the opportunity to raise the questions in the second term and the amendments.
