ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Nothing is more frustrating than being a victim of crime. Whether it's the theft of your bike or a burglary at your home, it always leads to grief, frustration and irritation. This irritation is only increased if you want to report it or, more beautifully, give tips to help solve cases and then get on hold by phone. Anyone who has a tip wants to feel like the police are taking him seriously and working hard on solving crimes and finding stuff. It is a question of speeding up the resolution of crimes. The message in De Gelderlander reveals the disturbing picture that the police not only misses reports, but also lacks tips due to understaffing on the call centers. I can't understand that. Every time we talk about raising the percentage of solutions in the Netherlands, it really has to be better in this respect. However, if things go wrong in front, we have a problem. I'm talking about getting tips and making reports. It is therefore important that this situation should be brought to an end quickly. This can end in the first place if we understand exactly what is going on at the call centres: what is going on there? Can the Secretary of State indicate what is going on there: is it the ICT or is it the occupation? And is the picture that tips are being lost at the moment? Secondly, the question is what the police learn from call centres in the market, such as KPN and Ziggo. They cannot leave their customers in the cold, nor can they allow waiting times to rise. What is going to happen in the short term to call on people who are frustrated to report things that have happened in their immediate vicinity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Veen is right to raise this point. It is certainly not the police's goal to maintain the current situation. I think it is important for people who follow this Question Time at home to know that we are not talking about 112: we are not talking about the rush line. It is easily accessible. We're talking 0900-8844, the number you call right when there's no emergency, but if you do need the police. Mr Van Veen refers to the image outlined in De Gelderlander. I get that. He asks what exactly is going on. Let me point out that the police organisation itself had received signals that something was wrong and that she then asked herself to investigate why this came. That investigation is ongoing. Version 0.5 of that research report ended up in the press. Let me make it clear once again that the police themselves have requested an investigation to find out what caused it. The image that arises from this is twofold. On the one hand, you have to deal with the reorganisation at the police organisation as a result of which there is overcrowding on the one hand and understaffing on the other. On the 1st of July. We have entered a new phase which means that the job vacancy summit has been lifted and that there are attractive means open for people to switch places with the aim of eliminating this under-employment. That's what's gonna happen now. On the other hand, if you decide that you want to come to a new system instead of all kinds of different systems and you introduce that system, you unfortunately have to deal with childhood diseases. If a system starts up, it will be at the expense of the speed with which people's business is handled on the phone. Let alone what this means to the people who are still on hold. I agree with Mr Van Veen that, fortunately, the police themselves agree that we must do everything we can to remedy this as quickly as possible, with the aim of ensuring that people who call this line are helped quickly. The standard is to record in 20 seconds. That's what we're still striving for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	The problems have indeed been known for a long time. We have also read some submitted documents and internal letters about them. Research shows that many people appreciate the work of the police and that the help of victims in the Netherlands is very well organised. It is therefore important that we ensure that every tip and every declaration is taken seriously. Professionals on the phone generally know well enough whether there is an acute emergency or whether they are dealing with difficult citizens. I was just asking the Secretary of State how we are going to ensure that people who have dropped out of the process out of frustration because they couldn't get their tip or report to the police at those call centres, still report that tip or report it to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	In general, the attention we are now giving to this also works for that. I don't know now whether it's technically possible to see which people have dropped out of the process. I don't know if there's a log or if there's any way to target those people. I propose that the Minister take this into account in the letter he sends to the Chamber on general declaration. After all, there are more channels than this channel to ensure that police reports and tips get to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	Then I would like to ask for a more precise commitment so that the Chamber is informed about the solution the police are going to implement to continue challenging victims and witnesses of suspicious circumstances or crimes to report. It is precisely in these times that I think we need all eyes on the streets to make the Netherlands even safer. My final question to the Secretary of State is whether he can make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	The line of this particular file is that we inform the Chamber about what the police will do when the report on the investigation is finished. Then she can respond to that. There is a commitment to share the information on the declaration with the Chamber in a broader sense. We shall come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	It seems a little like Everyone happened, but of course they didn't. Why didn't this cabinet make sure it was in order? There are also noises from the police that she cannot financially solve it. Every time we ask the cabinet to ensure that the police have the financial space to carry out their duties, but ultimately refuse to deliver the cabinet, now again at this point. When does the cabinet wake up that you sometimes need some resources? Or is the 55 million-dollar cut going to fall here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	I understand that Mrs Van Toorenburg has already taken a position on this subject, but on the basis of the draft report, it is not immediately possible to establish the link between this and a financial problem. There is a transformation, where you have understaffed in some places and not in others, and there is also the introduction of a new system. Of course, there is always a budget within which it has to be done, but there is no discount. The idea is that within that budget you can have the service in order. It's also important now to get it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you. No, Mrs. Van Toorenburg. A procedural remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	It is, of course, annoying that this is literally in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	Then we have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	Then we have come to the end of this oral Question Time.
