ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. At the moment there are prominent billboards all over the country. It's about huge billboards for webcamsex. When you look around on Twitter, it turns out that a lot of people get annoyed, especially because children and young people who come back from the evening four days or go to a children's playground can run into this kind of bizarre billboards. Many parents do their best to tell their children that you have to be careful of your body. They indicate that sexuality is a beautiful thing, but that it must take place within safe frameworks and that you should not just expose yourself to the webcam. This message is also expressed in education and in civil society organisations. This kind of advertising actually undermines all those attempts. The protection of good morals, especially with regard to young people, is a value we share, isn't it? The Constitution makes this explicit in the same article on freedom of expression. There are limits. Our appeal is that we should not have our streets hijacked by the sex and porn industry. Does the Minister agree? What opportunities do citizens and municipal authorities have to fight billboards like this? The company that now advertises so prominently has already been flagged by the Advertising Code Commission. You now also hear that the conscious organisation of fuss is actually going to be part of the earning model. That shouldn't happen. Would it be possible to impose fines on companies that are always out of line? In short, let us strip these types of companies financially. I come to my last question to the cabinet. In radio and television programmes, the Why doesn't this also happen in street commercials?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van der Staaij for this question. Let me say first of all that the government does not exercise prior control over advertising. This has everything to do with freedom of expression, which, of course, also applies to advertising. We also have a number of safeguards in our system for unpleasant advertising. Mr Van der Staaij himself pointed out that in the past a similar company has already been hit by the Advertising Code Commission, for which the Minister for Economic Affairs is responsible. The Advertising Code Commission is the guarantee we have in the Netherlands to tackle unpleasant advertising. Anyone who is annoyed by this particular advertising is free to lodge a complaint with the Advertising Code Commission. It can then check, within the existing framework, whether there is undesirable advertising, for example with regard to children. 96% of the statements made by the Advertising Code Commission are followed. I think Mr Van der Staaij knows this too, because there has already been a discussion in 2007 about a similar billboard campaign along the highways. I followed Mr Van der Staaij at the time on Twitter as an interested politician and I remember him tweeting that an important step had been taken in the fight against this type of advertising. In addition, the Minister for Economic Affairs replied to Parliamentary questions by Mr Segers on a commercial aircraft not too long ago. The Commission's Advertising Code was also successful in dealing with this at the time. It was specifically about the municipality of Assen and that was also discussed extensively in the city council. This discussion has led the company to be willing to voluntarily remove a commercial in a place where people who would rather not have. In the Netherlands, therefore, we do not have prior government control of advertising, but on the other hand we do have all kinds of safeguards to deal with possible concerns in an appropriate way, such as those of Mr Van der Staaij. The primary source for this is the Advertising Code Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	I thank the Minister for his reply. I am curious to hear his answer to my first question. I see that as a cabinet member he also has a view on all kinds of things. Is he also of the opinion that we should actually say: it is very unfortunate that we are faced with these kinds of expressions in so many places, on many roads and in places where young people often come? Does this not undermine a policy that also favours the Minister of Security and Justice, saying that young people should be a little more careful, including how you deal with webcams? Is this kind of advertising not contrary to national policy on the protection of young people? That is my first point. The second point is more legal. I noticed that the Minister said that commercial advertising also applies to the protection of the constitutional article. I find it striking that it is precisely in the last paragraph of Article 7 that it is very clear that all the other safeguards in Article 7 on freedom of expression do not apply to commercial advertising. In the case of commercial advertising, therefore, there are far more opportunities to act than in the real ventilation of views, also unpleasant views. Isn't that a reason not to say too easy: we can't do anything about it? The Minister rightly indicated that complaints are successfully filed with the Advertising Code Commission. With different examples, the same has been achieved. Is this gonna help? Do people not want to be aware that there is a fuss about it because it would be fun? So it's not helping at all. Should we not tackle these companies more firmly with harsh fines, which also deprive them of the advantage? I do not intend to remain silent and leave the Netherlands polluted by these kinds of campaigns. I don't want people saying we shouldn't talk about it, because it just happens. People put a lot of money into campaigns like this. What can local authorities actually do about this within our constitutional boundaries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'll start with the first question. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether I would also like to express a valuation on behalf of the cabinet on this particular advertising. I think it is a good thing that I am not speaking personally or on behalf of the cabinet about advertising this particular company. Whether the advertising is in accordance with good taste and decency must be determined by each for himself. In society there are different thoughts about such posters, and certainly about this poster. I am pleased that Mr Van der Staaij acknowledges that the Advertising Code Commission is the first point of contact where anyone can complain about an advertisement that they think should not be. I am also pleased that Mr Van der Staaij also claims to acknowledge that this is a system that works and that in 96% of the cases, as I said, action by the company concerned will be taken in accordance with the Commission's Advertising Code. Whether this expression is contrary to national policy is a judgment of taste and decency. I can't go in there. I do not feel that we can say too easily that there is nothing we can do. I think, on the contrary, that we give a very well-founded indication of what you can do about it, namely, first and foremost, to the Advertising Code Commission. The last question was what municipalities can do about it. The municipality of Assen is a good example. It opened the dialogue and ensured that the poster was removed from the place where it was offended. I think that is a very good example of how to resolve this in a good way by mutual agreement. There is nothing to prevent the municipality from drawing attention to this problem within the boundaries of our society, even in connection with the licensing of billboards. As a municipality, I imagine you say: we don't do it in schools, but I really leave that to the municipalities. Look at each other a little bit how you do that, but it's an issue that the individual municipalities have to solve. I can also imagine that there are municipalities that do not need them at all, whereas other municipalities may have them. I think there is room in every possible way to deal with this in a proper and sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister mentions the municipality of Assen, which has indeed taken measures. Furthermore, the Minister actually says that the municipalities themselves have to figure it out. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would not be able to sit down with the VNG to see if this could be discussed more broadly with the municipalities and to see if the municipalities could be encouraged to follow the good example of Assen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	That would be the reverse world. If the municipality of Assen says: we have a problem with this and we have solved it in good consultation with that company, then Assen is a member of the VNG and Assen can take it up with the VNG himself. That seems much more logical to me than to do it from the cabinet. So I'm sure Mr Voordewind will be able to give that suggestion to the municipality of Assen as well.
