ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber. First, I will give the floor to Mr Rombouts for his maiden speech. I'm gonna have to ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. A city that invests in education, sport and culture will eventually also be an economically successful city. Besides, it's gonna be a safer city. As far as I am concerned, these are the three words: education, sport and culture. As mayor over the past decades, I have learned that if you invest heavily in those three areas, you are doing better as a city than cities that invest to a lesser extent in those areas. It gives you a stronger economy and less crime. It is an observation of a mayor, who is fortunately supported by national and international research. The fact that a diploma today does not guarantee a job proves the current high level of youth unemployment. However, a diploma is still the best poison against unemployment. In turn, sport is the best poison against hanging around, doing nothing, vandalism and crime. And if a city can bring all its young people, both native and ethnic, into contact with any form of culture as well as it can form multiple forms, that is in my sincere opinion the best poison against exclusion, discrimination, intolerance and disrespect. A good book, a penetrating play, a moving film, a moving poem and a protest song provide material for young and old to think and new insights. Flemish actress Simone Milsdaughter once told me this. She said that you should not tell people what culture can bring them, but what culture can take away them: their unjust prejudices, their fear of the stranger and the stranger and their too rigid eyes on the world. Do I hear you now think: what does all this have to do with the Law on Youth Stays? That is this: what applies to cities also applies to countries. A country that invests in education, sport and culture will ultimately do better economically and in terms of security than countries that do so to a lesser extent. Recent figures show that 85% of young people in our country are doing well. Much of public policy, both local and regional, therefore focuses on the other 15%. That's right. However, it is crucial for a society to continue to invest structuralally and permanently in good education for all young people, in sport for all and in cultural participation. Louise Fresco wrote that culture windows open on moral dilemmas. Those who never get in touch with literature or theatre have no idea of the big issues that individuals and societies have faced in history. Power, love, corruption and selflessness come to life in culture in a compelling way, she writes. It provides children with a moral baggage that will guide them on their path of life if they are brought into contact with culture at a young age. Moral formation or, as Schiller called it, Bildung, civil Courage and the formation of courageous citizens are desperately needed in today's society, which is imbued with fear. In the lecture for the donors of the National Monument Kamp Vught, Professor Kees Schuyt postulated the following theorem: The best way to transfer moral skill to new generations is through artistic education and sporting, physical and mental training, for example by acting or together making music. This teaches young people how to deal with each other and do something together. Young people inevitably face differences in character and temperament, in education and understanding and in colour and social background. Schuyt called that sporty collaboration and that plays and music make "practice fields." Literally and figuratively, they are practice fields for moral formation. Against this background, the CDA Group in the Eerste Kamer understands very well that member Heerma has tabled an amendment in the House of Representatives to make active citizenship and social inclusion part of the statutory quality rules for youth residences. Questions arose in the political and social debate prior to the submission of the draft law. Do the private-funded Turkish-Dutch boarding schools contribute sufficiently to the integration of the children there? My group supports the aim of the legislative proposal to increase the controllability and transparency of the situation in the youth quarters, in order to ensure the undisturbed development and safety of the children staying there for a long time and outside the supervision of their parents. However, we call on the Minister to explain once again why the government considers it really necessary to monitor this. This will hopefully contribute to the acceptance of the law by those directly involved. The Minister will be aware that the interbranch organisation of these boarding schools is experiencing the bill as an interference in parental authority and as a licence of inability to the directors of these boarding schools. My group can understand that criticism. We Christian Democrats also attach great importance to the responsibility of parents. Where citizens themselves can and want to take on their responsibilities, public restraint is appropriate. In a way, therefore, we as the CDA Group are faced with a dilemma. Are we in favour of self-regulation or government regulation? In principle, the government must keep some distance from civil society organisations and therefore not intervene too quickly and deeply there, following an incident. On the other hand, the Convention on the Rights of the Child assumes that "the best interest of the Child', i.e. the best interest of the child, must always be guiding. That treaty also assumes that in some situations this may mean that the child's safety, including social security, will prevail, even if it restricts other freedoms. If the government still gives itself strong powers, there must be a good reason for that. That must also be demonstrated. This is just where he gets the boot for those who are directly involved. They lack a solid basis for the proposal and so does the Council of State. He lacks an analysis of "the problem in the youth quarters." The Council also speaks of insufficient support for the legislative proposal. My group would like to hear a response from the Minister. More precisely, what justifies the desire and the ability of the public authorities to intervene here, especially now that the boarding schools have voluntarily committed themselves to further self-regulation? Finally, my group is asking the Minister to speak explicitly, and I would like to stress that it is 'explicit' that this bill of unannounced entry into the youth quarters on behalf of the College of Mayors and aldermen is not and should not in principle be valid, unless there are urgent and urgent reasons for this. Madam President. Almost 40 years ago, as a newly graduated lawyer across the street, in the House of Representatives, in the CVP Group, you remember that? Get into service and start my working life. I want you to know that I consider it a privilege to be part of this Chamber now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr Rombouts, congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to briefly outline something of your background. You studied law in Nijmegen. Your political interest was raised early, because right after your study you started to work. You just said it as an internal affairs and justice officer for the Dutch People's Party in the House of Representatives. In 1977, you became one of the speech writers of CDA list leader Dries van Agt. In 1979, you were appointed mayor of Wouw. With only 28 springes young, you were the youngest mayor of the country at the time. During those years, you have also been promoted to a study of the procedure for municipal reclassification in the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark and Sweden. I see you're nodding in agreement, so it's correct what I'm saying. In 1989, you were appointed mayor of Boxtel. In 1992 you became director of the Interprovincial Consultation and in 1996 mayor of Den Bosch. To this day, you are very happy to perform this function. You feel closely connected to the Duke city, which is known for its open, accessible atmosphere. Four times, the city was declared the most hospitable municipality in the country. You are a mayor who wants to stand among his people and who wants to govern on the basis of his sense and common sense. If it comes to a crisis situation, you believe that both elements are essential. In all these years as mayor, you were confronted more than once with scenes that would not be wrong in a painting of the most famous resident of the city in history: Jheronimus Bosch. This painter is of great value to the city and you will undoubtedly experience it as a highlight that, after years of preparation, the Bosch year has finally arrived. In an interview you indicated that it is an once-in-a-lifetime experience to see so many of Bosch's works together. You are making the elderly among us short, because they will also remember a 1967 Bosch year. What is unique is the newly discovered painting of Saint Antony, which was announced yesterday that it had been in an American depot for years. Mr Rombouts, as mayor, you have repeatedly argued for continuity in public administration and attention to the position of the municipality. There is no doubt that these concerns will also arise in your work for this Chamber. We wish you every success with your further contribution. I'm suspending the meeting to give colleagues and myself the opportunity to wish you luck with your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. May I take this opportunity to warmly congratulate Mr Rombouts on his maiden speech? It is nice that, just before the opening of the great Jheronimus Bosch exhibition and the day after a new painting suddenly appeared, he manages to link this subject to cultural development and education of children. I congratulate him on that. I will certainly enjoy the exhibition if only because Mr Rombouts invited me to it. You're not invited, Mr. Chairman? That's something. Maybe, maybe... Before I go into the content of the bill, I would like to make two comments. My group is very sorry that, to this day, parents sometimes opt for boarding schools if they can also raise their own children. Especially when it comes to children with roots in another country, this can only mean that the child is not immersed in Dutch society. This should enable them to integrate better in themselves. If parents themselves are unable or insufficiently able to raise their children, then I am in favour that they can opt for education support or coaching instead of isolation. That is also the subject of my second comment. I have been active for a long time as chairman of Schuttevaer, the industry association of inland waterway transport. In that capacity, I've been through a great deal of experience with the ship's crew. I can tell you that almost all parents deeply regret the fact that they have to do their children in boarding school because of their profession. Most of the time they have sat on it themselves and know very well what it's like there. That is why there is also very great parental involvement in that boarding school. It is a necessity due to the absence of parents because of their profession. That also applies to expats, by the way. The government also recognises that these parents are forced to house their children in otherwise well-functioning boarding schools and therefore subsidises part of the costs. Let me say straight away that I do not see any need to bring such youth accommodation under this law. These comments are therefore hardly related to the law, and that is certainly true of my first comment. What was it again? A few years we were shocked when it became known that a limited number of children, mostly of Turkish-Islamic origin, stayed in boarding schools where there was absolutely no insight into and therefore no supervision. The quality was and/or did not always seem optimal. The discussion at the time was actually more about the (un) wishfulness of youth accommodation organized along ethnic-religious lines. That was also true for the discussion in the Lower House. Although dr. Ter Avest has researched this and comes to positive conclusions, the VVD Group still believes that it is better for children to spend time with other Dutch children of all kinds outside school time and also that there should be very good reasons not to keep children at home with their parents. It was soon concluded that this is, of course, the choice of parents. You can't forbid them from making this choice. The quality of these boarding schools has in most cases improved considerably in recent years, thanks to the good work of municipalities and ECN, the industry organisation, through the voluntary framework developed together with the Youth Care Inspectorate. I would like to congratulate ECN on that. These people have done an excellent job. Frankly, I am rather surprised that two municipalities do not want to work with a voluntary framework, but wait for the law, at least I understood that from the reply. Can the Minister explain the motivation of these municipalities? I can't imagine. The VVD Group has deliberately raised very critical questions because it believes that there should be a good reason for legislation to function as a voluntary framework, also because there is an obligation to risk running away from the energy generated by the voluntary framework. So that puts us in a dilemma. You could say that a law is superfluous because virtually everyone participates in the voluntary framework. At the same time, I note that, although very limited, a number of institutions are not participating or cannot participate at the moment, if only because the municipalities in which they are located only want to supervise if they are obliged to do so. As far as the reception of children is concerned, my group has finally considered that there is, in fact, a form of statutory supervision for all types of care and residence of children, sometimes through the grant relationship, sometimes through other legislation, such as in day care and the like. Then there is also something to be said for some quality requirements to be set for all parent-controlled and paid care. If this bill is accepted, I see a few risks. First of all, after the excitement of a few years ago, the industry organisation ECN was set up. Together with the municipalities concerned, the VNG and the Ministry, it has developed a voluntary framework. Do we not now run the risk that the resulting energy will run away, now that everything is regulated by law? Is the Minister prepared to sit around the table again with the municipalities concerned and the representatives of the youth quarters in order to see whether, while maintaining local autonomy, we can agree on good cooperation and some streamlining of supervision? My group is surprised that operational elements of supervision are again included in this legislative proposal. This applies in particular to Article 8, which states that the supervisor is obliged to visit the youth residence once a year. Isn't it obvious to make supervision risk-driven? I'd have preferred it incorporated into the law. In some cases one will go four or five times a year, because the youth residence is still unknown or because things have gone wrong, while in the light of the agreements and transparency one may only have to go to another once in a while. Can the Minister go into this again? Maybe it has any meaning in putting that article into effect. Let me say straight away that this law must not be used to bully, I say unparliamentaryly, so that work is impossible to pursue. Once again, no matter how unfortunate the choice is, the Constitution really applies here. I believe that several constitutional articles, for example, 1, 6 and 8, apply alongside the ECHR. People have the freedom to make choices. I would rather advise municipalities that have this tendency to enter into the conversation about parenting and to see how they can support parents. To sum up, the VVD has a few more questions and hopes that the Minister will respond positively. Following ample considerations, the group considered that this bill could be supported. It also provides a framework in the event of new developments which we do not yet know. The reply refers to the reception of loverboys. I have my doubts about this, but you can imagine that at least the new developments will be better seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I have to say that the electronics are abandoning us in so far as the timer doesn't work. In the meantime, I've been given a device with which I can keep track by hand. I'll alert everyone in time. Mrs Jorritsma, you have unfortunately spoken 7.5 minutes instead of 5. It is unfortunate that the spokesmen cannot see the speaking time now. If the given time is there, I'll remind the spokesmen. I call Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. I can solve it by talking very quickly, but I won't. I would also like to congratulate Mr Rombouts. His ambitions with regard to education, sport and culture sprang from them. It stimulates. I hope that we can still have the debate on this together. Mr. Chairman. Today, we are discussing the Law on Youth Accommodation. The result of this law is a motion in the House of Representatives of Azmani and Yücel. They called on the government to establish a quality framework which could be legally enforced in relation to matters such as the pedagogical environment and the quality of housing of what the proposers call "mosque interiors." The PvdA Group thanks the government for the answers to the written questions of this Chamber. This shows that most Turkish-Dutch boarding schools comply with the voluntary quality framework established in 2013 and that, unfortunately, almost all municipalities do not monitor this. We think that is very important. In answering the question of whether legislation is needed, it is a question of seeking an adequate balance between the role and responsibility of the parent, that of the government and that of the youth residences. The Government rightly states in its written reply that Article 274, Book 1 of the Civil Code and Article 8 (1) of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms require great restraint on the part of the public authorities. At the same time, the government believes that consideration should be given to the changing views in society on the duty of public care for the well-being and social security of children, while ensuring the quality of youth accommodation cannot be a question of non-committality. This has created a situation in which, on the one hand, there is a need for legal instruments to monitor youth residences and, on the other hand, there must be room for parents to exercise their parental authority in their own way. We believe that the legislative proposal before us reflects the search for proportionality in monitoring. As a PvdA Group, we believe that the government has adequately completed this. After all, minimum safeguards for the social security and development of the child have been taken into account and parents have been given an explicit role in the use of quality rules. The government has chosen not only to settle something for Turkish-Dutch boarding schools. After all, the legislative proposal focuses on all private initiatives which are not currently covered by any other form of government supervision. We support this broad approach of the government. On one point, Mrs Jorritsma also referred to it: "The government's written reply raises questions about the scope of the law. It states, on the one hand, that boatmasters' interns are covered by a subsidy scheme, i.e. not covered by the legislative proposal, and, on the other hand, that VMBO training for inland navigation, short sea shipping and maritime transport should also be covered by the scope of the bill. We would like to ask the Minister to clarify whether or not these boarding schools are going to be covered by this bill and what the argument is. In the search for the right proportionality with sufficient guarantees of quality and safety, not only does it work with a minimum quality framework, but also with a limited role of the GD inspectors who carry out supervision on behalf of the municipalities. My group needs clarity from the government. This concerns, in particular, the feasibility and enforcement of the law. How can this law prevent the creation of false security with regard to social security and guarantees for the development of children in youth homes? Municipalities only have to look at the situation once a year on site. How do they keep an eye on the youth quarters for the rest of the year? Suppose a municipality opts for a pre-announced annual visit, is it not conceivable that everyone, i.e. children and possibly also supervisors, on the day of the GD inspection behaves differently from normal and the inspectors do not get a realistic picture of the actual situation? Wouldn't it be wiser if the GGD inspectors visited a youth residence unannounced, as is now common in health care and youth care? Good experiences have been gained in this respect. Is it not wiser for inspectors to adjust the frequency of their visits to the actual situation they find? Mrs Jorritsma mentioned this as risk-driven supervision. We are very curious to see how the Minister views this. The draft law, Article 2, assumes that the holder will immediately make a one-off communication to the college on the maintenance of a youth residence. The question is whether this is self-evident. Providing care for a limited number of children is possible in a regular home. The youth residence can carry out its activities on the basis of private funds and therefore has no natural connection with regular public bodies or health insurers. How does the municipality gain insight into initiatives that are about to fall within the scope of the law, but have deliberately or not failed to report themselves? We ask the Minister to ensure that all private youth homes are in the picture. How does he think he's gonna accomplish this? My final question concerns the scope of the responsibility of employees of the GGD, who are in charge of supervision. The reply states that private initiatives for the reception of loverboy victims will also be covered by the law. I prefer to talk about children who have become victims of pimps. In many cases, these are vulnerable young people who have suffered psychological damage due to what they have experienced and who may need to be treated. These children may also have to be protected from themselves, because they are not yet convinced that the one who seduced them, to what we consider to be forms of prostitution, is evil. In these cases, how far does the responsibility of the supervisory officials of the GGD extend, especially in the light of the municipal responsibility for the Youth Act? Is it sufficient in these cases to look only at the elements contained in the draft decision? We are looking forward to the Minister's reply on this point. I'll come to a conclusion. The Youth Accommodation Act provides important safeguards so that children living in private youth institutions can grow up safe and healthy, use their talents and participate in society as they can. The PvdA looks forward to the Minister's answers in order to better understand, in particular, the feasibility of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. You've done it neatly in seven minutes and six seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate Mr Rombouts on his maiden speech. Today, the Law on Youth Homes is being discussed in plenary. A bill in response to a relatively small but still solid social problem. In 2012, the NRC noted that hundreds of children live in mosque interiors, with doubts about fire safety and the quality of educational supervision, but also about ethnic focus on their own community. Following this publication and other signals, there was a strong public debate which led, among other things, to the legislative proposal to be discussed here. I would like to briefly discuss this proposal from two points of view: the purpose of the legislative proposal and the question whether a legal framework is the answer to the identified social problem. Before I start my first point of view, I would like to briefly tell you what has influenced my thinking as a health care provider and how I am looking at the legislative proposal before me. In the early 1960s, Erving Goffman wrote an essay on characteristics of total institutions, such as psychiatric hospitals, boarding schools, monasteries, prisons and so on. Institutions where residents are dependent 24 hours a day. Life takes place 7 days a week, 24 hours a day within the walls of the institution. Goffman described the far-reaching consequences of this physical but sometimes compelling social structure on the mental state and behaviour of some residents. He called this process with a slightly acidic word "mortification." And I say it in my own words: a farther state of flattening and dependence. Outside supervision and having an impact on the immediate living environment are necessary to be able to function actively and in balance as a resident, within such a situation. We have become 50 years further and wiser in how we now feel about residence. The position of the care provider or his or her representative has changed. For third-party funded institutions, such as a RIBW but also a daycare centre, we have laws and regulations that guarantee the rights of clients and their representatives and indicate how supervision is regulated. As far as the SP is concerned, setting comparable quality frameworks for privately funded accommodation, such as youth accommodation, is a good thing! Also there are people in dependence! I will continue with my first point of view, the question of what the purpose of this bill is. The basis of the bill is a motion of the House of Representatives Azmani and Yücel. The motion aims to be enforceable, transparency of mosque interiors and a responsible educational environment and housing. According to the explanatory memorandum, the aim of the legislative proposal is to ensure as much as possible the safety and undisturbed development of the educational environment for children staying in a youth residence. In order to achieve this objective, quality rules are proposed in order to start and organise a youth residence. In doing so, this bill regulates supervision by the municipality where the youth residence is located. The youth residences can be controlled under these rules and the rules give the holder of the youth residence the responsibility to make visible what activities are organized around the children. The Group of the Party of European Socialists fully supports the aim of this bill. We also agree with the quality rules proposed in the legislative proposal. These rules are subject to conditions which prevent them from entering into the thoughts of the organizing stay. As far as the SP is concerned, that's the way it's supposed to be. By amendment, citizenship has been added to this legislative proposal. The legislative proposal thus sets out a substantive direction with which the holder of the youth residence must work. The Minister describes in the reply dated 16 November. in general terms, what citizenship means. In doing so, he notes the efforts made by the trade association Educational Centres Netherlands (ECN) to give substance to citizenship formation, partly because there is a lot of work and cooperation with volunteers. The hand-out offered by the Minister is the consultation with municipalities and supervisors on how youth residences can be supported in terms of the concept of citizenship. But what is citizenship? I would ask the Minister to clarify the concept of citizenship once again and I ask him how he intends to give substance to this hand-out to ECN. As far as the SP is concerned, an orientation on one's own culture and community when it is distanced from society as a whole is not good. We have to live together, and we will have to live together forever. This isn't gonna happen on its own. Attention to this issue is therefore also needed in the youth quarters. I come to my second point of view, namely whether a law is the answer to the social problem described above. The Azmani/Yücel motion states that, if it is not possible to give the quality framework an enforceable character within existing frameworks, this should be made possible through a legal process. The result of this motion is the bill for 25 youth residences to be discussed here. Can the Minister explain why he chose a law rather than another enforceable framework? As a SP Group, we support non-freedom, the enforceability of the measures. Not all youth accommodations participate in the voluntary quality framework. New youth centres can be set up in the future. And do we know all the youth homes in our country? For us as a group, these are sufficient reasons to want to regulate government control. The industry association Educational Centres Netherlands has taken a number of good steps with its voluntary quality framework. A large part of the youth residences participate in this. A dialogue has begun between the youth centres and the municipalities. I would like to hear from the Minister how this dialogue and the binding framework of this bill relate to each other. Is it workable for the youth residences and the municipalities? I'm closing up. The fraction of the SP therefore supports the enforceability of the quality framework. We are talking about growing up children in dependence. We await with interest the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u10	What was my time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u11	Six minutes and twenty-nine seconds, to be exact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I congratulate Mr Rombouts on his maiden speech. Of course, as a former alderman, I cannot help saying culture that I am particularly pleased with his focus on the significance of this for urban, but also rural society. My group has studied with interest the proposal for the Youth Stay Act. We can justify the nature and purpose of the law, but since it is a relatively small area of application, we still have a few questions. Protection of the safety and development of young people is generally a task for the public authorities, but this task must be carried out in a proportionate and distance. The constitutional right of parents and educators to take up the education and training of their children themselves and freely is also a starting point for my group. But that right is not unlimited; even now there is a lot of legislation to protect children in the end if their situation is physically and psychologically unsafe. That is and must be surrounded by safeguards and careful procedures. In response to questions from this Chamber, the government mentions the social and political debate surrounding Turkish-Dutch youth residences as a reason to come up with additional legislation around boarding schools. The government considers the problem to be the lack of understanding and monitoring of youth residences in general and not their existence as such. The cause and problem are not the same here. Protection of young people in any situation is separate from any ethnic, religious or philosophical nature as far as my group is concerned. If there are reasons and signals to ensure safety and well-being, then the government must have tools to ultimately act in the best interests of the child. In this respect, we are also pleased that, in his explanatory statement, the cabinet carefully separates the cause and the possible problems and explicitly states that restriction of religious or philosophical freedom is not a matter for discussion. We would like to hear an explicit confirmation from the Minister that this law was not designed to control only specific groups of youth residences, but that it may also function in other situations which may not yet be known. In practice, we hear from the branch organisation for Turkish-Dutch institutions ECN and also from the cabinet that there is currently no direct indication of unsafe situations. For this reason, the interbranch organisation is also focusing on continuing on the path of voluntary supervision. My group understands their reasoning and appreciates this voluntary commitment. But precisely because this law should not have been made for a specific group of boarding schools, but should have a general validity, we think that this argument is insufficient to waive regulation and legislation. However, we ask the Minister how he really intends to shape supervision in practice in the future. It is precisely because the sector directly concerned shows its willingness that, in our view, the standard continues to be proportionate. As long as voluntary cooperation is in order and there are no direct signals, the law remains a stick behind the door rather than a crowbar. Does the Minister share this view? In addition, we would like to know from the Minister what specific issues are being monitored within the youth internets. Can the Minister explain this, particularly when it comes to citizenship? As far as we are concerned, this monitoring should be in line with the way in which we assess, as has been mentioned earlier, the ship's personnel. Can the Minister confirm that? The concept of proportionality also has a different perspective. The direct scope of the law covers some 30 institutions, where young people are raised outside parental authority for a longer period. In order to avoid this law being seen as a specific legal instrument, we would like the Minister to indicate more precisely which groups of boarding schools could be further covered by this law. Private shelters for loverboys victims? Do we know boarding schools of other groups in society, for example expats, from a Chinese or Japanese community or any other community? Here too, please give us an explanation. We are in principle in favour of a legal basis which allows for the protection of children by the public authorities in situations where this is not possible at the moment. But that should not become specific occasional legislation aimed at a small group. It must be legislation that fits in with what we do in similar cases. Our questions are focused on this in particular. We would like to await the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Kok.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. I'll try to keep my argument in time, but I can't see it. Once again, I congratulate Mr Rombouts on his maiden speech. I thought at the beginning that I had gotten into the wrong debate, but fortunately that turned out to be different. For a long time now, there is finally a legislative proposal which aims to regulate the supervision of youth residences. Better placed: on the numerous so-called mosque internationaties, mainly Turkish, because this is really what this is about. There's been an open wound for decades. Interiors of Turkish origin received tax money without any form of objectively critical assessment. Whistleblowers weren't heard until, as has just been said, the NRC reported in 2012 of fire-insecure boarding schools in Rotterdam in which hundreds of children without government control were actually locked up. It's an alarming situation. Pedagogical things were wrong too. It was only in 2013 that the Minister considered it necessary to use a minimum-minimum lapper, a package with a diffuse and unclear character, in which the question remained whether they were followed. A covenant had to regulate supervision, but de facto a city like Rotterdam was still powerless in the absence of a legal basis. No strings attached. The actual situation is simply worrying; even more so: shocking. Children from 12 to 18 years of age live in this kind of uncontrollable boarding schools and Koran schools and do not come into contact with Dutch society. They rise at three o'clock to hear an Islamic sermon; a total surrender is demanded and group coercion is central. In the meantime, this situation, which had not been helped by the minimum package, has not improved. On the contrary, Mr Erdogan's growing anti-democratic regime, where he is simply arrested by displeasure groups such as judges, journalists and academics, and Turkey is driven up the road to a Sharia state, will also go directly to all Turkish Dutch. Erdogan will only want to increase his grip on this group, which is already voting for him for the most part. We must be vigilant, especially when it comes to this kind of institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr Erdogan and rules for mosque interiors; I really don't see the connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u16	I try to outline the context as we see it somewhat wider than Mr Don did in his speech. In my opinion, that is in order. Perhaps I can continue with my text...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u17	I have a different experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u18	Let's just leave it at that. In this context, it should be noted that, despite the high degree of urgency, the Minister did not actually take action until after the invitation to the motion of Azmani and Yücel, not least when dealing with the SZW budget in April 2013. The question is therefore whether the Minister himself felt the need for legislation no longer and whether he thought the minimum requirements were enough? At last in 2016 there is a legislative proposal with a legal framework for assessment. At least it is a step in the right direction. But is it the right step and reaches far enough? The Minister presents the proposal under the covert title of youth residences in general. Slightly confusing, where it actually amounts to mosque internates of Turkish-Islamic cut. Why is this not explicitly stated in line with the motion and the problems identified? In this context, I would like to refer to the comment made by the Council of State, which states that there is no clear analysis of the problem and that it is not possible to assess whether the correct solution has been adopted with this proposal. The Minister seems to be running away; the text of his proposal has a high instrumental character. The discussion about the existence of a parallel society and the mono-ethnic nature of these types of residences is anxiously avoided. The whole is stuck in a technocratic, but politically poor jacket, in the absence of a clearly explicit vision, potentially hampered by forms of correctness and ultimate caution. Before we get to the bill sec, all this raises the necessary preliminary questions. How does this minister look at a recent report from Omroep West yesterday, warning that children from Muslim families have radical ideas at an ever younger age? This was confirmed by an unsuspecting alderman from The Hague, who sees this as a potential danger to our society. How does this minister assess the underlying problem and what is his expectation of the effects of countering the further drifting of Dutch values and prevailing views? Can the Minister also indicate how he has acted so far on this sensitive dossier of integration and combating unwanted excesses? With his long experience, how does he view these kinds of organizations, the knowledge taught there, the underlying ideas and the practice of group coercion and increasing indoctrination? Does he think that the instruments now provided can respond adequately to this? Does the Minister know the exact size of the target group? Is he only based on the declaration of the industry organisation ECN, which states that by 2015 740 children would be in Turkish-Dutch boarding schools and 22 in Moroccan-Dutch? Is this a complete overview and is SZW doing active research? There is an impression that the Minister is now simply assuming a vague obligation to report. I quote: "municipalities do not need to look actively." They are encouraged to be "alert." By the way, estimates of the VU already reach about 3000. In the opinion of my group, this alone calls for the suggestion of non-committality. Are we talking about a set of enforceable mandatory rules, which should underline the seriousness of the matter, or are we talking about lip service to the petitioners of the motion? If this is the approach, the success of this bill will be guessed in advance. Illustrative of this light approach is the remark in the reply that: "... given the concerns expressed in the political debate, the government considers it desirable to establish some rules." Every individual motivation is lacking for the time being. Those only rules then find their translation in the statement that it is appropriate to include "minimum safeguards based on an assumed proportionality'. In this case, public intervention must be in balance with the primary responsibility of the parent. One could seriously question whether this responsibility is being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u19	I have a question about the responsibility of the parent. Does Mr Kok believe that parents are not responsible for their underage children? When should the government take action in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u20	This is a very general question. I have spoken about proportionality. This does indeed suggest that there should be a balance between the primary duty of care of parents, even if I wonder if parents take that responsibility, because children stay in boarding school for so long as they do so, and the fact that you have to determine at some point when the balance will go down to taking care of them. That is what this law says. It can be inferred from my speech that I at least, but also the Minister, because otherwise this law would not have been passed, and the authors of the motion in the House of Representatives, now consider it appropriate to allow that balance to pass on to the explicatory of legal rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u21	That's the core of the bill. Mr Kok obviously has a view on the point where parental responsibility ends and that should go beyond the quality framework that is now in place. Where is the border for Mr Kok? When can parents take responsibility for the education of a minor child? Mr Kok obviously has an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u22	I shall now come to this in the course of my speech. I have already spoken about proportionality. In other words, in this case, public intervention must be in balance with the primary responsibility of the parent, who may be seriously questioned whether it is being taken. The long-term accommodation in these kind of boarding schools is not a direct testament to that. How does the Minister view this? If the government states that the authority of the parents is 'not absolute', is this the translation of those minimum guarantees? In this context, I would like to point out the fundamental point made by the Council of State that parents' rights are not unlimited, particularly in situations where they are inadequate. Those aren't my words. The government then has a duty to protect children from damage to their physical and (sic) mental integrity. Is it not the question of integration that is actually being ignored? Why does the government say that, to the extent known to it, Quran schools offering only informal education are not covered by the scope of the bill? How does this relate to the fact that a broad definition has been chosen to introduce formal supervision of all forms of private care? Why does the government not have data on these "possible other groups"? How selective is one? It seems clear that there is a large grey area and that the risk of circumventing the new rules cannot be ruled out. The government admits this, too. How effective can this bill then be, also in view of the non-binding obligation to notify? When I look at the bill on underlying elements and considerations, I come to the following. Against the background of a limited offer of minimum requirements and a limited supervisory toolbox, it is up to the youth quarters to establish a so-called quality framework. The subjects of the national voluntary quality framework have been incorporated into the law, but no specified substantive requirements have been included. Unfortunately, the details of this are lacking, and so the supervision of the municipalities is called into question. In order to further concreteise the issues, an AMvB with specific rules needs to be drawn up. Can the Minister explain whether, in particular, the nature of the teaching has a place in the quality framework? This is a crucial point because these young people are placed outside society for a long time. How does this relate to the promoted "undisturbed development of these children"? Mental safety must be at the heart of the matter. What are we supposed to do now that the institutions still have'space to draw up the quality framework'? How serious should we then take the obligation to report to the municipalities and the independent confidant for these children? Isn't this the familiar wax nose? Is this what the government means when it says that "any direction is given to the indicated topics"? Is this feeling based on the idea that the institutions will do self-regulation now that they have declared that they will participate in national agreements? The reactions to the consultations do not offer much hope for that. The picture of non-committality is reinforced by the fact that there is no municipal sanction mechanism. According to the government, investments should be made in a good and mutual relationship. Well, I guess, especially with the famous cup of tea. Shouldn't it be concluded, on balance, that if there is no subsidy relationship with such institutions, there is virtually no basis to implement any adequate form of supervision? All things considered, my conclusion is that this legislative proposal does not provide a convincing picture and that it does not create an adequate supervisory framework of its own that is strictly standardized in terms of content, which is also genuinely enforceable. The Minister does not yet seem to be aware of the fundamentally deeper problem of non-integration and parallelisation of society, which is neither mentioned nor addressed by this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u23	I have a brief supplementary question. Mr Kok mentioned it in his speech: the ECN entered into a dialogue with the municipalities or the municipalities with the ECN as an interbranch association. Of course, a movement has emerged from that. How does Mr. Kok judge it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u24	I understand Mr Don has better entrances to the ECN. I don't have it, and I have to take it off the paper. I know that the ECN is looking at the voluntary adoption of national agreements or the self-fulfilment of a quality framework the specific issues of which have not yet been really identified. I'm judging that as too noncommittal. The intention of this legislative proposal should be to lay down a uniform quality framework with strict rules that can be applied uniformly by the municipalities. Mr Don has already said that transparency is the key word in this story. That's very important. The requirements must be clear to the organisations, whatever they are. I do not care that the scope is extended to all kinds of boarding schools, but here we are dealing with this very specific group. That was also the reason for this bill. Too much voluntaryity I would not like to propagate, quite the contrary. I believe that the ECN can play a useful role in this, but one must be aware that the rules must be clear, clear and strict, can be respected and can be enforced by the municipalities. If not, they can swim in all directions and it will be nothing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u25	I'm gonna close with this. I follow much of Mr Kok in that. He also heard my speech in which I talked about enforcing rules. I know the ECN as well as he does; I have no direct connection to it. However, I have read that, on that side too, responsibility has been taken for how to increase together with the municipalities and to create transparency about what is happening in them. I see this as a movement of the Muslim community to engage in dialogue with society. At least that's how I judge this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u26	I believe, with Mr Don, that all parties should take their interest in this for the benefit of the greater good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. Like the speakers before me, I would like to begin by wishing Mr Rombouts, mayor of the beautiful city of Den Bosch, whom I once met with the phenomenon of carnival, through an unforgettable introductory course for boring Dutchmen. I must say that the memory alone makes it a pleasure to welcome him here in this Chamber. Today we are discussing the power for municipalities to exercise a form of supervision of privately funded youth homes, where children are outside their homes and parents' supervision for a long time. Let me begin by saying that my group was already very much in favour of the outcome of the discussions in the House of Representatives. I could also agree very well with a number of previous comments made by previous speakers. I also share with Mr Don the surprise about the apocalyptic perspective that Mr Kok outlined, but in many respects I can agree with previous comments. My group is happy to give action during this debate, but I shall begin with that observation. In fact, we have found that we impose requirements for many other places in the Netherlands where children stay for a long time to ensure a safe environment for those children. We therefore see the proposal now before us for statutory government supervision of privately funded youth homes as the coloring of a remaining white stain in the laws and regulations. This is in any case justifiable. There is, however, a fundamental problem behind this issue. All the previous speakers also referred to this. I am talking about the delicate balance between appropriate concerns about children's safety on the one hand and unwanted interference with parenting responsibility on the other. There is a great deal to be said about this. It is a fundamental and difficult matter of principle. As a short summary, I should like to say that, as far as I am concerned, the Minister has made a successful effort to keep that balance correct and clear, including the explicit mention of citizenship as part of the quality framework, which I thought was an elegant and desirable adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u28	You indicate that you do not fully agree with the apocalyptic image I have put forward, at least in your perception. I would like to ask you a question about yesterday's article on the situation in The Hague. I'm referring to the article from the network there. How do you look at the image that your own partymate brings forward? I quote Mrs van Engelshoven van D66, alderman in the municipality of The Hague, because that is where the problem lies. She says: "It poses a potentially great danger to society. The children can radicalise further and engage in violence." How does that relate to the apocalyptic image you seem to put me in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u29	To be honest, I haven't read the article, so I'm hearing this quote for the first time. But I hope that the framework we are developing and discussing here will allow us to respond appropriately. As far as this concern is topical, I would, of course, share it. However, as far as I am concerned, the broad and worrying picture you are evoking runs counter to previous statements made by the Minister himself on the actual situation in most places in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u30	Perhaps I could suggest that you conclave with your party colleague from the city of The Hague. That seems to me to be a good thing to get a little more grip on reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u31	That suggestion is quite abundant. I will continue my speech and note that we had a number of minor issues when reading the bill which I would like to share with the Minister and which he may wish to respond to in due course. I have the following questions about this bill to the Minister. On the issue of citizenship, I would like to say this. I share the positive view of most of the previous speakers on the inclusion of that part in the quality framework, but I also share Mr Don's question about the correct way of forming citizenship as a teaching and teaching task. I would be very interested if the Minister had anything to say about this. Citizenship formation is also a mandatory part of the curriculum for other Dutch educational institutions, but its implementation is problematic and in many places insufficient, inadequate and improvised. Especially in this setting a proper interpretation could be worth a lot. I would really be interested to hear what the Minister thinks about this and whether he intends to explain it in more detail in the General Measure of Management which is yet to be adopted. Then what direction would this explanation go? Then there are a few other small issues. In the first place, the bill provides that a holder of a youth residence shall make a one-off notification to the college. The Minister writes that it is not necessary to establish a register. I really wonder if this is wise. On the contrary, it would be very useful for me to have some control over an overview of youth residences that are active, and to keep that complete and up-to-date. Perhaps the Minister could explain again why he would find that unnecessary and undesirable. I would also like to say a few words about the confidant. I consider this to be a very essential ingredient of the regulation before us, perhaps as important as a precise definition of the quality framework itself. The availability of an objective, independent confidant is, I think, a very essential ingredient. If that function is properly performed, a lot of problems can be identified and smothered in the bud. The Minister argues that, depending on how the holder of the youth residence organises this, this could generate a structural cost. However, in the draft decision at the youth residences, the establishment of a trusted person was completely removed from the list of measures leading to substantive compliance costs. I would like to ask myself, just to be sure, whether we are right about the importance of this function. Or has the Minister changed the way in which this legal duty has been implemented or implemented? I would regret that. I would also like to say a few words about the voluntary framework. Two years ago, a large part of the municipalities and youth centres were voluntary. A number of speakers have referred to it and a national quality framework has been developed. My group is interested in the practical experience with the national quality framework and the national review framework. Does the Minister have examples of situations where it does not work or where it does not? My impression is not, but I would like to have this confirmed. It would provide an important additional justification and effectively refute criticism of disproportion. What I particularly hope is that the voluntary framework will not be put under pressure by this bill. I hope the Minister will explain whether he sees changes taking place in this voluntary framework when this law enters into force. Has he considered submitting the bill only after this voluntary framework has been thoroughly evaluated? In particular, would he like to promote that these voluntary efforts will continue and be able to count on continued support and appreciation? In any case, I appreciate the efforts of the ECN. They deserve support and sympathy. I share Mrs Jorritsma's preference for risk-based supervision. That seems to me to be the right formula for this sector, and I would like to know from the Minister whether he thinks that might be the case. Finally, I would like to point out a difficult and delicate ingredient in this regulation, namely the possibility of entering a residence without permission. That is a far-reaching competence, and it has rightly been looked at critically. The Minister said that this power will only be used when the supervisor is explicitly denied access to the residence. My group did not discover this condition for entry in the legislative proposal itself. I would like the Minister to confirm this explicitly and ask whether the commitment deserves a more explicit place in the history of law. I'm finishing my contribution. We understand the Minister's wish and await with interest the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to be able to deal with this law while witnessing Mr Rombouts' maiden speech. I do not see him now, so perhaps you would like to convey my congratulations to him at a later date. What is the vision behind this bill? It can be summarized as: children first. There is rightly a great freedom to raise your children at your own discretion, but the government also rightly has an obligation to defend the interests of those children where necessary. This always happens in a balance: in daycare centres, in schools and in boarding schools. The fact that the boarding schools where the children stay are privately funded is the only reason why nothing was arranged. I do not think that this is sufficient reason for any government supervision, in the interests of security and the well-growing up of children in these boarding schools. The reason for this bill was indeed the concerns about the Turkish-Dutch boarding schools, the "moskee internationaten," as they were called, insufficient transparency about it and little insight into the educational vision. There has been an incredible amount of good work since then, and I see those responsible for this sitting in the public gallery today, but I think there are all the more reasons why that supervisory framework should be laid down in a law today. To those who are concerned about whether the voluntary commitment to a good pedagogical policy and healthy and safe boarding schools is going ahead, I say: I do not know why that would stop. I assume that the organisations that are now committed to this are not doing so for me or the Second or First Chamber, but for the children. Non schoenae sed vitae discimus, so why would they stop doing that important work now when there will be a legal framework? We have the task of ensuring the best possible safety and health of children in our society. Children who stay in boarding school for a long time can therefore also use some form of supervision. The fact that there are no concrete indications of wrongdoing does not change that. That would also be a very strange way of doing things. You make demands because there is vulnerability in the fact that one is underage, and not in the fact that there are abuses. You know little about it, so a balance has been sought for a good form of supervision, so that we can prevent abuses from occurring and we can discover them in time when they are there. There is no reason to believe that something is not good in many daycare centres, but we still like the fact that it is monitored. Mr Rombouts asks whether the bill is still proportionate. Sure, in my eyes, I do. The duty of care, which I have already mentioned, is without prejudice to the fact that there is parental authority in itself. Parents themselves have the choice how they want to raise their children. So it remains a choice for the parents themselves whether they do it at home, or whether they send their children to boarding school. I fully understand the feelings that Mrs Jorritsma shares with us about this, but it remains up to the parents themselves. As a liberal, it will probably also defend their ability to make that choice. We then have the task of organising proportionate monitoring from the government. In addition, minimum requirements and limited supervisory tools have been chosen in the legislative proposal. In my view, this is a good relationship with the private nature of the institutions. What's the justification? It is in the desire for these children to grow up in a healthy way, as in the desire for instruments to be able to do something where voluntary supervision or quality framework is not enough. Moreover, it risks being otherwise in order for those who participate in the voluntary framework, whereas you would prefer to have a legal framework for those who do not want to participate. That would be missing. So I do not think it is such a good argument that virtually everyone participates in a voluntary framework and therefore no law would be needed. That's exactly what you need for those who don't. Those who do have a part in it also have an interest in the okay stamp, as in the old drink note advertising, that supervision has been exercised. This means that the government has seen that the agreements are respected. What about the entry? I understand that question very well, and it is important that it be asked, because then I can make it clear that it is not intended that public personnel should just enter everywhere. That's not the point. Municipalities should be given the opportunity and authority to come by unannounced if there is reason to do so. That must be a concrete reason; it is not simply a matter of doing so. Moreover, it must also fit within the law that regulates all forms of entry. That is why it has not been mentioned in any more detail in this legislative proposal. There it is simply mentioned that it must be for an urgent reason. This again refers to another law, which specifies the conditions and conditions under which one may enter unannounced. So the legal conditions surrounding it are there. There can be no misunderstanding that one cannot enter anywhere unannounced. There's got to be a reason. Why don't two municipalities join us now? That is really up to those municipalities, and that could be raised in the city council. Right now, it's happening voluntarily. So you don't have to. They have indicated that they await the law. I find it strange, because I think you always benefit from practicing and joining a voluntary framework, but it's up to the municipalities. If the law were passed, it could come into force later this year. I have already said something about the industry association's commitment, which I appreciate. I trust that this commitment will continue, because it is aimed at the best interests of the children. Am I willing to go to the table? Sure, I've had a lot of discussions and I'm happy to look back on them. At first there was a lot of resistance to any kind of supervision and agreements about quality, but as you talk more about it with each other, there is more willingness to move together. I have also talked to many parents who had a very different view of my interventions in this area and the possibility of a law. Still not all parents are happy. I understand that very well. They are concerned about what might happen to their freedoms through this law or future laws. I have experienced these conversations with parents and the trade association as important, because I think that there it is important that you have the conversation with each other about why the government does certain things and why that does not affect the constitutional freedoms to raise your children according to their own understanding and with their own religious identity, and why it is also important to ensure their future in Dutch society as well as through forms of supervision. The annual audit was asked: isn't that a bit childish and old-fashioned? There is indeed risk-based supervision in childcare. There is often a long-standing relationship and supervisory experience. We could work towards that. In the beginning, zero measurements will be required and a relationship will have to be built between the boarding schools and the municipalities. I would like to say that this is explicitly addressed in the legislative review, which will take place three years after its entry into force. If such a relationship is indeed built up, then I am prepared to proceed to risk-driven supervision. At present, this supervisory relationship will have to be built up at least once a year. I don't think there's much against that either. In the long term, it will be efficient and effective to proceed with risk-driven monitoring if we also look back at the evaluation. If I could use that commitment to alleviate any concern, I hope to hear it from Mrs Jorritsma and Mr Rinnooy Kan, both of whom raised that point. Mrs Nooren was concerned about whether the image of GGD officials was complete on the day of the inspection. That actually concerns the mirror image of the unannounced inspection. If you keep only announced inspections with a red carpet, cookies and everyone in his Sunday suit, the question is whether that gives a good picture. Both options are therefore included in the legislative proposal. This is also very common in other sectors. You can't mask everything by doing it for a while. For example, it also checks whether there is a vision, whether the explanations of behavior are present and so on. You can't fake that all of a sudden when the supervisor comes along. But it remains important that there should be a possibility of unannounced visit to the Community, even more than the prescribed minimum of once a year, if there are reasonable grounds for doing so, which I just mentioned in reply to Mr Rombouts' question. An important aim of the law is precisely that dialogue and relationship with the youth residence increase and thus transparency. This will allow you to get a much better idea of the actual situation at a youth residence in the long term. Why do we assume that municipalities know what is going on and why is this form chosen without a register? Municipalities can be informed in different ways about the youth residences on their territory. Parents are obliged to transfer their children to the residence address where they will stay for more than three months for two thirds of the time. This is a first guarantee that the municipality will be informed. The second is the environmental permit. When applying for an environmental permit with accommodation function, the reasons must be given. In this way, too, the municipality is informed of the fact that a youth residence is being established. In the Lower House I also had the discussion about the administrative burden for all parties involved in a register versus this form of reporting obligation in the knowledge that permits are necessary to run a youth residence. In my view, a register does not add much to the existing practice where it is compulsory to report the establishment of a youth residence and where you can assume, for a number of reasons, that this notification will also be made. If you choose not to apply for an environmental permit and not to report, we have a completely different problem. Then they wouldn't have signed up to the register either, because then you'd have an illegally funded youth center.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u33	We should not make this too big a point, but, frankly, I thought it would be useful to have this registration as a basis for keeping a permanent eye on this sector. Anyway, there has been some cause for commotion there. A registry may also be a basis for carrying out appropriate investigations from time to time. If it's a little trouble, I still think, "Take that trouble." What the Minister says does not convince me very much, but it is not a very difficult point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u34	How wonderful is it to disagree when it is already stated that it is not a terribly difficult issue? It's not a very difficult point for me either. You can argue the following. The principle of supervision has been laid down by the municipalities. Decentralized supervision has been chosen. In this way, the municipality has by definition the overview of the youth internationaties established there. It can follow developments well. I do not immediately see a task for the central government to monitor the situation with regard to youth accommodation, as Mr Rinnooy Kan calls it. If we have confidence in the system we are introducing, it is really up to the municipalities. There may also be second-line surveillance. If the GGD supervisors in the various municipalities do not have sufficient control over the youth accommodations and do not exercise supervision properly, there may be a central analysis. Whether or not a national register of youth accommodation is fair, I doubt it. That could be disproportionate. You want to keep the administrative burden low and the goal is for the municipality to know there's a youth center. That goal can be achieved in a different way. That's my argument. This whole system of powers and proportionality is without prejudice to the immediate creation of further powers. As soon as an inspector sees a threat to safety, a report to Safe Home, the advisory and reporting point for child abuse and domestic violence, is in reason. Then there are further possibilities to protect children immediately. Mr Don is right to ask what citizenship is now. We all think that is important, but we all find it difficult to define exactly what that is. This is reflected in the way education handles this key objective. I believe that there is still a great deal to be done in the future to further promote integration. It is precisely citizenship education that offers an excellent opportunity for this. Citizenship-building means providing support to minors with basic knowledge, skills and attitudes needed to play an active role in society as critical thinking citizens. The definition already shows that this can take shape in many ways: through debates, organising discussions on difficult issues, getting acquainted with other sectors of society and participating in neighbourhood activities. So there is a range of possibilities to fill that out, and that is also good. If you want to grow critical citizens, it is very suspicious if the government dictates exactly how you can become such a citizen. I think it would be a good idea, together with ECN, to see how this task can be properly addressed. Even if we do not yet know exactly how this is done, I think it is important that we ask it. The concern about the hundreds of children staying in boarding schools is not primarily due to the question of whether their school career will go well. Research shows that this is very well arranged. Care also does not focus acutely on safety, although it is very important to have safeguards for that. Care focuses much more on the question of what it does to children when they grow up a large part of their young life in a monoethnic environment, sometimes separated from the rest of society. At many boarding schools I see that this is not the intention. That's where the kids go to mixed school. I think it is a very appropriate part of this legislation that boarding schools are asked to take care of the citizenship component as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u35	I understand you can't just make a product of citizenship. You can't say it's settled now. It's a movement you're committed to. This morning there was no such thing as an article in the Green Amsterdammer which this minister will read regularly as a red minister when he has time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u36	And as an Amsterdammer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u37	You are indeed from Amsterdam. If you haven't read it, you can contact Minister Bussemaker. Yesterday, Mrs Kleijwegt gave the report Two worlds two realities. The article is about education and not so much about youth accommodation. So I shall be very brief, Madam President. Those two worlds grow in some schools and in some parts of the country more and more apart. I am talking about the Muslim world on the one hand and the Dutch world on the other. There must be attention to this issue, perhaps from a different perspective. The way we're doing it right now, we're not gonna make it. I'd like to give that message to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u38	That message is understood. Margalith Kleijwegt investigated Mohammed B.'s school in the period 2004-2005. She has a long history of looking at what actually happens in those schools. There are problems like invisible parents and children who drift. She went back to those kids ten years later. That's a beautiful book, too. In this more recent study, she has been sitting on the wall like a fly in the often very intense conversations conducted in many classes, not only in lower forms of education but also in higher forms of education. What she sketches, I know very well. I absolutely feel the urgency of looking at what we can do before and with education to help those involved. One of the things that we are already doing as part of the larger action plan against radicalisation and jihadism is that we train teachers to deal with ideals. We deliberately chose that title. If you say that we are going to train teachers in dealing with terrorists or potential terrorists, it is not always inviting for all participants. It is often about conversations in which young people react very fiercely and bring up their own conspiracy theories. Teachers who are trained to conduct that debate properly can make these children more resilient, even against any disinformation they receive daily via Facebook or satellite dish. This is a crucial part, not only of keeping our society safe, but also of securing the new generation. I very much agree with Mr Don. I have already said why I think this was a question from Mr Don O'Honnell that a legal framework is needed to enforce that you have an instrument for those who do not cooperate voluntarily. You all feel that the stick behind the door is needed to ensure that what happens in front of the door goes on in a good way. There is now a legal framework. The question in the motion at the time was: can you enforce it without a legal framework? In the end, that is not possible. You need more powers than just the conversation to be able to say with peace of mind: it's okay now. Mr Lintmeijer asks me to confirm that this law does not target one target group. The law is deliberately broadly defined. I confirm that to Mr Lintmeijer. I've wanted to make provision for all private-funded youth accommodations. That's what the law provides for. Indeed, there is a white spot in the surveillance. I'm sure that's understandable from the past, but at this time there's every reason to fill that white stain with this law. That is also the reason why I have explicitly understood the Azmani/Yücel motion to be broader than only in relation to Turkish-Dutch boarding schools or mosque internates. I don't know what's wrong with that. After all, for other private-funded boarding schools as well, if it is safe, if it is good and if there is a pedagogical vision, I do not see what objection there would be to making this explicit and to making this subject subject to this form of supervision. If that is not the case, I am all the more pleased that this law will provide instruments for better monitoring. That does not alter the reason why we started the discussion. All groups which meet the criteria of the law and for which no supervision is provided, regardless of philosophy, ethnic background, etc., are brought within the scope of this law. What subjects are we talking about? These are quality rules that focus on mission and vision, position and involvement of minors and their parents themselves, complaints policy, reporting on policies and objectives, a safe and healthy working and living environment, dealing with aggression and discrimination, alcohol and drugs, child abuse, bullying, personnel policy, pedagogical policy and educational environment, including suspension and removal of social media, citizenship and punishment. That is a logical distillate, I think, of the subjects on which you would like to supervise and on which you would like to make agreements. Are the rules comparable to the rules for boatmasters' interns and/or childcare? Yes and no. For boatmasters, the rules are more detailed and heavier for childcare. I think there are good reasons for this in both cases. We have looked very closely at these examples, because the questions and arguments for regulation were similar. However, this is lighter and less detailed because of its private character. Mr Kok asks whether I myself feel the need for this bill. Sure, otherwise I wouldn't have wanted or dared to bring it here. The debate in the House of Representatives was not about whether it should happen, whether I thought it was necessary, but about how we should shape it. I have the impression that this is also a sign of the debate we are having today. There is a fairly large consensus that it is wise to regulate this by law. I also believe that this is necessary, but the debate should be held on whether the balance of this law has been found to be satisfactory. What are we doing against radicalisation and extremism? I have just said something about it following an interruption by Mr Don. Of course, we do much more. There is an integrated action programme with more than 40 measures. Some are more in criminal law, others more on the prevention side. I am primarily responsible for preventive policy. Key to this is how we raise children, how we help schools and how we support parents who have concerns about growing up their children. I've seen the message from Omroep West. I understand very well that the alderman thinks this is an extremely worrying signal. The idea that children of 9 or 10 are comprehensible for radical ideas gives thought. It gives thought to their home environment and the question of how this is discussed at school. Again, it is reason to continue to look very critically at everything we do to ensure that children grow up safe and healthy. When a child grows up in an environment in which it is confronted with such extreme ideas, it is not good for the child or for society. At the end of last year, I sent a letter about salafism to the Chamber. Following that letter, a debate was held and nine motions were adopted calling on the government to further concreteise and strengthen the policy and management of Salafist organisations. I hope to inform the House of Representatives about this shortly. I don't feel free to speculate about that right now. It also affects a little less about the bill that is now on the table, I think. How effective the legislation is, Mr Kok asks. In itself, the rules are very clear. With these rules, the supervisor is able to monitor compliance with those rules. It is inherent in all legislation that rules can be bypassed. There's no way to avoid that, especially in advance. However, in the light of my experience in recent years, I am confident that this will be an appropriate form of supervision. If, after three years of evaluation, for example, the structural circumvention of the rules proves to be a good time to ask us what an appropriate response is. A total ban on private-funded boarding schools seems disproportionate to me in view of parents' freedom to make their own choices for their children. Mr. Kok further asked if it was enforceable. Sure. The use of the designation and the burden under penalty payment are means that the college of B and W can use and that also fit the intended purpose of the bill. Those penalties should then be proportionate to the nature and seriousness of the infringement. Thus, this enforcement toolbox is by definition not the beginning, but a clearly visible end or ultimatum remedium in the supervision. Shouldn't there be a uniform, clear and sharp quality framework? Sure. That's exactly what happened with this law. However, the way in which bullying and complaints are handled must be shaped by the institutions themselves. This is no different from other institutions subject to supervision. Daycare centres must also give substance to the way in which they deliver on their own clear framework. Is the overview complete? Yeah, as far as we know. If there are boarding schools that haven't checked in and I don't know about them, I don't know if they're on the chart either. I can't say much with rumours that there would be much more if that weren't further developed. I've already indicated that you can't just run a private funded boarding school without noticing it anywhere. If it is, it's not good. So you let people stay there without having the required permits. As far as I can see now, we have a complete picture of the youth interns in the Netherlands. I think I have answered Mr Rinnooy Kan's question by referring to the right of entry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u39	There's a duty to report in the law. The organisations themselves should report to the municipalities if they consider that they fall within the criteria or scope of the rules. I have indicated that you seem to think that municipalities do not need to look actively. They are encouraged to be alert. Isn't there a big discrepancy there? Is there not a clear need for these institutions to actually report to the municipality? In my view, there is too much talk of a certain lack of commitment. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u40	I do not agree with Mr Kok. One has to come forward. Municipalities will then oversee it. Internals who are in bad faith and who do not want to report will undoubtedly not be registered either. So I do not see the discrepancy that Mr Kok sees here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u41	Is there, in your view, a specific sanction still applicable to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u42	If you haven't checked in, you don't have a license. And there are all kinds of sanctions for that. Those are also fairly strong sanctions. You can immediately close a stay if a boarding school is run there without the required permits. And that is separate from the sanctions under this law in non-compliance. This brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you. We now have the second term from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u44	Madam President. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. This has been a great pleasure to me. The toughest point in my initial contribution was the unannounced entry. When the Minister responded, I found that he was very reluctant to deal with those who do so, in this case the bodies that do so on behalf of the B and W colleges. In the end, however, he has given a legal basis within which it must be done. I might have preferred it if I hesitated for a moment if I had to interrupt that the Minister would say: I do not want... Maybe he can talk a little more empathetic about this in the second term. This is about recording in the Acts of Treatment in the First Chamber and thus in the history of law. It is now a question of what is meant by the legislator and when it is allowed to enter. Mrs Jorritsma was very complimentary about the ECN. I would also like to express my compliments on what the ECN has done, but I think that the best thing for the government to do is to get what remains to be done. I think it is a good thing that the legislator today, through the Minister, says that when it enters on behalf of B and W colleges, this should not be done on political opportunistic grounds. That is the fear of the boarding schools and the ECN. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill, and I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. I've got two short points. Firstly, I am interested in the Minister's answer to the question put by Mr Rombouts. I still consider entering as an ultimatum remedium. That must be done only if they are refused. Secondly, I would like to comment on risk-based supervision. I know that municipalities are still incredibly affected by the Childcare Act, which is very operationally about everything you need to do. In the municipality where I was mayor until recently, this really caused a lot of trouble, when we had it well done. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it is necessary for municipalities which have a very good relationship with 'their' boarding school.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If municipalities have made a different appointment with the boarding school, it should not be the case that the inspection says that insufficient supervision has been carried out. These were the questions I had left. For the rest, I will also advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. A question has remained open, namely the one on the loverboy issue. Will the Minister comment on this and indicate the role of the GD inspectors in relation to the other standards that apply in this respect? I would also like to come back to the balance between unannounced visits and entry. Can the Minister encourage municipalities to take advantage of the experience of risk-driven supervision? Moreover, I agree with him that it might be good to visit each year in the first period and then to include elements of risk-based supervision. However, I have already indicated this in the first period. I will give my group a positive opinion on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. As far as I'm concerned, he did a good job. I am pleased that citizenship and its active implementation remain under the attention of the Minister. I also heard him say that he wants to continue to act in the direction of ECN. I am going to advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. Finally, I would like to thank ECN for their active role so far and wish them every success in their future active role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for replying to the Minister. For us, it is important that it has been stressed once again that we are not waiting for occasional legislation in relation to one specific group, but that the law has to work in the broadest sense. My group will support this proposal partly because of this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. I too thank the Minister for his answers. It is good to note that the Minister acknowledges that there are concrete abuses and that there is a need for a framework that goes beyond a voluntary approach by the sector, the trade association or the various institutions. The Minister, except in general terms, does not really deal with the deeper problem. In my opinion, it all hangs on the surface. How high does he think the urgency is exactly? I refer here to a study carried out in 2014 by Mrs Nanhoe and Mrs Van Horssen, which specifically dealt with the situation in Rotterdam. The general conclusion was that there was still much profit to be gained in the field of socio-cultural integration and that contact with society was very limited. Perhaps the Minister could reflect on this. What would his further approach be in this area? He's given a general sketch. The key question is whether the instruments are too light. The Minister opts for a slightly minimum package, he mentions the minimum requirements, and in his view that is an appropriate approach given the underlying problem as he apparently perceives it. He does take a great deal of account of proportionality and self-regulation. He believes that the correct balance has been found in the bill. How does an undisturbed development really relate to a slightly minimal package, as he imagines? This aspect is at the heart of the legislative proposal. Attention will also be paid to a tight monitoring framework. The sanctions that the Minister has just put forward are in themselves clear and are in any case adequate on paper. An assessment in three years' time will have to show whether the legal framework really addresses the issue in its entirety. Finally, I would like to ask for a brief comment on the apocalyptic picture I have outlined of recent or perhaps longer-term developments in Turkey, which we do not really welcome, and the possible repercussions that they may have on land. This may go a little further than the problem, but there are certainly interfaces to be identified. See also the message from Omroep West yesterday, which I already referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Kok. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr. Chairman. I too can be brief. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. I agree with what Mrs Jorritsma said about risk-driven supervision. It is all too easy to place large-scale municipalities with a frequent inspection mission, which in practice will often be superfluous and which is precisely the reason for increasing the administrative burden that we would like to avoid with each other. So I'd like to bring this point to the attention of the Minister. Perhaps, finally, and in conclusion to this part of the debate, I would like to make the following comment. If an elephant were to stay in this room, he would regularly become visible in the repercussions of raising, the parent's educational task. It is a great privilege and a great joy to raise and it is also a very important social task with great repercussions for all of us. The dilemma we face when parents, in our conviction, make an unwise choice for their children is not easy to define, but it is a very essential ingredient of this debate. Of course, the government will not want to intervene lightly. At the same time, we all feel that this is a very important task, which often starts at the edge of education, ignores it and becomes extra delicate. I fear that sooner or later, precisely in the context of this debate, we will have to return to that broad theme that calls for another reason. That's not something to look forward to, but something that goes with it. That political debate will eventually have to be held in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Rinnooy Kan. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second term contribution. I will answer Mr Rombouts' question, which I have just answered legally, more politically and explicitly. There is a reassurance that sometimes goes even further than the Minister's view, namely that a college of B and W cannot legally enter without such an urgent reason. Let there be no political misunderstanding: such an urgent reason can never be formed by a political opportunity. It must be in the children's situation. Let it be said before the Acts that, if they existed, the lectures which, for political reasons, would want to enter would undoubtedly be severely attacked by the administrative judge if they did so. I would therefore very much encourage a course to the courts at the boarding schools where this is taking place. Our rule of law is really strong enough to protect people from it. I therefore believe that we should not act out of fear of such a violation of the rule of law. Mr Rinnooy Kan spoke of an improvement in the rule of law in the sense that we always seek to clarify the balance between what we see as our task to guarantee the safety of children and the maintenance of parental freedom. We should not refrain from improving the rule of law for fear that others may abuse those powers. There is no such legal space and there is no such space politically, but a judge in the Netherlands will never accept it by appealing to this law. As far as risk-driven supervision is concerned, I fully understand Mrs Jorritsma's view. I am in the process of improving the supervisory framework for childcare, and I hope to be able to defend it here later, perhaps this year in this Chamber. The cut-off lists for the temperature of peanut butter do little justice to the expertise of the daycare homes themselves and also little due to the expertise of the supervisors. Besides, there is a world of improvements possible. On the other hand, even municipalities with a very good relationship with the youth residences do not stand in the way of carrying out that monitoring once a year. In doing so, you have ensured that all municipalities, including potentially unwilling municipalities, do so in any case and that they do not hide behind the statement 'we see no risk; so we do nothing'. I would suggest that we leave the truth in the middle of this and agree that, in the review in three years' time, we should consider whether it is time to move to more risk-driven monitoring. I have tried to answer Mrs Nooren's question by addressing the care provided by private-funded boarding schools to the victims of loverboys. The word loverboys is indeed too sweet a description of criminals who force young girls and boys to prostitute themselves. I have said that there may be reason to invoke other more far-reaching powers if the safety of these children is at stake. I have just mistakenly indicated this in the direction of Mr Don, but then there must be notification at Safe Home. Then we must respond in the interests of those children. So the general framework applies to all privately funded institutions, where youth resides, but a specialization may be at issue. Supervisors are trained to recognise such situations and then react to them. Mr Kok asks me again whether contact with society is not a much more important element than you could derive from this debate. I agree with him. I have already said something about this in the first term. That is the concern you feel, but at the same time you feel reluctance to interfere. Also in children who are simply raised under parental authority at home, choices are made in which they are withheld from contact with others. Sometimes choices are made that you wouldn't understand as another parent. And yet it is right that the government should not intervene immediately. This debate is about that balance. That is also the elephant that Mr Rinnooy Kan has unveiled in this Chamber. I've never seen an elephant here, but if I look with him, I can see what he means. One of the elements that makes the dilemma even more acute is that you often see parents who are concerned about whether they are able to give their children the education they need during this complicated period. One of the special things is that parents, often Turkish-Dutch parents, put aside their savings to send children to such a private funded boarding school, because there the homework counseling is good, because they do not deal with young people who feel bad. This is happening entirely from a noble ambition. There is no reason for me to waive this legislation, but there is all the more reason to provide the same parents with a legal framework which shows that there is also some supervision of safety and of those other elements that are part of healthy growth. You can't solve this dilemma with this law. This shows only one aspect of the white spot around the surveillance. In the coming years, too, we will have to intervene intensively in the political debate to determine whether the balance is right. Is there any reason to intervene more? How can you better support parents in raising children in a world where, for example, in Mrs Kleijwegt's piece, for example, there is no uniform consumption of media news messages that everyone follows, whereby people themselves select what truth they believe in? Children will have to be made resilient to deal with that. That is a difficult task for parents and for schools. They will have to do it, because otherwise you will continue to deal with conspiracy theories and thus also with the vulnerability of children to people who proclaim a false truth and thus lead those children on the wrong path. We have not solved this with this legislation. I do believe that this is an important and necessary contribution to the supervision and safety of children staying in private funded boarding schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-eerstekamer-3.u54	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on this bill next Tuesday.
