ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Those who watched Radar yesterday or read the Volkskrant this morning or the NRC this afternoon have seen that people have to pay very high penalty rates when they transfer their mortgage. Those penalty rates seem to be even higher than legally permitted. It is about a lot of money, thousands of euros per family, on average more than €3.400. 12,000 cases have been investigated, so it's also about a lot of people. I have three questions for the Minister of Finance. Are the figures that the researchers report correct? Is it about so many people? Is it about that much money? Is it true that banks hide costs in these penalty interest rates and make profits on the transfer of mortgages while legally prohibited? If that's true, those people get that overpaid money back? The second question concerns the supervision of the Financial Markets Authority. The Financial Markets Authority has been set up to protect consumers from financial institutions, insurers and banks, who have fooled during the crisis and before the crisis, such as usury policies. How's the surveillance been? There's an investigation going on from the Financial Markets Authority. Is this gonna be included in that? When will this investigation be completed? What will the Financial Markets Authority do if abuses are detected? The third point is perhaps the most important. No company in the Netherlands can send an invoice of €20,000 to €25,000 without specification. No one would pay for it. Banks do it over and over again. How is that possible? How is it possible that if you transfer your mortgage, you will be presented with a fine interest rate of thousands of euros without it being substantiated how it comes about? When is that finally gonna end? The whole Chamber wants that, and the Minister agrees with me. When is it arranged that as a consumer you can see what a reasonable penalty rate is and that you can compare it with the bank's offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. "Boeterentes" is in itself a confusing concept. If you enter into a mortgage and you want to change or terminate that mortgage sooner or want to convert it into a new mortgage, the bank may charge the client the real cost of that mortgage. This is popularly referred to as "penalty," but it is simply permitted and recorded. It goes wrong if the bank charges more than the costs actually incurred. This was not regulated by law, but it is now based on a fairly recent European directive, the Mortgage Credit Directive. It has been in force in the Netherlands since this summer and since then it has been well arranged. That is actually the answer to the third question, but I will come back to it in a more specific way. The question now is whether it has gone well in recent years. On the basis of this new legislation, the AFM started an investigation into the practice of banks this summer. How's it going now? Are only the actual costs charged? Is it transparent? Can people see how the amount they are charged has been built up and whether it is correct? People need to understand. The investigation could show that in recent years these amounts exceeded the actual costs. The AFM could then appeal to banks. I therefore think that we should wait and see. The investigation will be completed this autumn and will be made public. I'll inform the Chamber about that. Only then can we answer the first question, namely whether the figures are correct. I honestly don't know. This has been investigated by a so-called comparison site. There are many of them. They've done a lot of that. The question of whether their assumptions and their methods are correct and whether those figures are correct is something I cannot honestly answer at the moment. That wouldn't be very careful, either. The AFM has said that if mistakes have been made in the sense that more costs have been charged than the actual costs incurred by the bank when transferring them, it is up to the bank to rectify this. Your second question was whether it was covered by the investigation. My answer is yes, although that research is really based on whether we are complying with the rules currently in force. That does not alter the fact that mistakes from the past can emerge, but let us not anticipate them. Your third question is how this is possible without any justification. I think this has already been adapted, which means that people who are now being transferred will already receive detailed information from the bank. However, this information is still extremely complex. It is therefore still difficult for an average consumer to see whether he pays the justified costs or whether he is fined and whether he has been driven to the bank, as suggested in the broadcast. So we have to wait for the investigation. That started this summer and that will be done in a few months. Then we can see exactly where it went wrong and to what extent it went wrong and then the banks will have to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	I thank the Minister for the answers. It is clear that it is being examined whether it is true that too much has been calculated and whether this should be corrected if this is the case. I'll hold the minister to that. I have a question on an adjacent issue, namely the transfer of mortgages and interest rate intermediation. That's what we've talked about before. There are a lot of people who want to take advantage of the low interest rates at the moment, and that is in everyone's interest: this is in the interest of people, because there is lower housing costs, and this is also in the interest of state finances because there is less mortgage interest relief. In the case of many banks, it was not yet possible at the beginning of this year to apply interest-rate mediation or to transfer the mortgage. That is what the Chamber has talked about and I ask the Minister what is the position with regard to that. Did banks finally get to stand next to the customer? So they're offering these products? Do they offer consumers the opportunity to close without making extra returns themselves? That's what the first questions were about. Or are there still banks that refuse to do so? What is the Minister doing to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Banks are still private companies, except those still in state hands. They're somewhere in between. However, it is not the case that I impose matters on the banks in this area. Fortunately, this is not necessary either, because the situation has improved considerably in this respect. There are now 12 providers of interest rate mediation, including the large banks that, as you know, provide most of the mortgages in the Netherlands. And there are ten smaller providers who are going to offer interest rate mediation this year. They will be offering them in the coming months. This was the situation at the beginning of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Finally, here's what I'm saying. We often talk to the Minister about the behaviour of banks. A lot of political parties do that. However, I do not understand why I have decided to do so and ask the Minister to endorse this..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Just look at how that penance interest is created, what the elements are. There's no way to calculate what the minister himself just said. How is it possible that you haven't done that yet and that's still not clear? I am therefore asking banks to do so with me, so that at long last they can see what a reasonable amount is, what the bank offers and that there is no difference between them. Then you prevent people from paying too much in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	It is suggested that the amount of the penalty interest is not always an indication that something is wrong. This may also be an indication that the consumer chose to hold interest for a very long time a few years ago. It may be that now that interest rates are so much lower, he would like to get rid of it. So you have a high "fee rate." The level of the amount is therefore not an indication in itself. I very much agree with Mr Nijboer that consumers should be able to understand what they are signing up for. When they have to pay such a fine, they should also be able to understand from which it is built and whether the amount they are paying is correct. Especially when it comes to large sums, it is important for consumers to understand this. In that respect, there is still a real profit to be made. I believe that the new legislation on this point is very clear and that further profits will be made. The AFM now also has the power to intervene in the underlying decision of the Wft if communication to the customer is still not sufficient, not understandable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	It would be quite a sum: about 5 billion has been charged too much in twenty years. Now the AFM's gonna do research on that, but okay. Suppose that comes out "yes, they've charged too much." Then it's up to the banks to repay that money, the minister says. But what can people count on now? Will they be entitled to that, too? Or are the banks allowed to decide voluntarily?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	That depends very much on the type of mistake that has been made. I'll leave it in the middle for a moment if it's a deliberate error to charge more costs. If the errors are contrary to the terms and conditions laid down in the contract between the customer and the bank on what may be in such a fine, then civil law is simply a duty. If necessary, the customer can go to court to get his right. It is clear that this is contrary to the conditions. I'm not saying they have to go to the judge, but if necessary, they can. We also have the KiFiD. I'll put that $5 billion aside, with all due respect, if you don't mind. There is one comparison site below which a claim foundation has made a calculation and then says: I already claim 5 billion. The experiences with claim foundations are not always equally positive. Do you mind if I wait for the AFM investigation first? If mistakes have been made and too much has been charged, then it does matter whether this was contrary to the conditions, the duty of care or otherwise. Then we will see how this can be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	For the CDA, these extreme amounts are no surprise. That is also the reason why we have asked many questions about this in the recent past to the Minister and asked him to speak explicitly with the AFM, the banks and the insurers. We have recently made the proposal to consider whether constructions can be devised for the non-penalty-free part, so that consumers can switch to cheap interest rates in a very advantageous way. In our view, the Minister has been somewhat reluctant to reply. After what has become known, is he prepared to bring that option to the attention of the AFM, banks and insurers once again, so that consumers can switch cheaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	Once again, the costs that are charged and may also be charged for the transfer of a mortgage are really related to the financing that the bank has entered into. The bank attracts money, finances itself. There are real costs to the bank if a client says he wants to conclude another type of contract. I do not think it is possible to say, as a result of these reports, that research is still being carried out, that it should be much cheaper, with the costs being considered, and that banks should make it much easier to shut down. Where real costs are or should be incurred by banks, they may be charged. That's what happens when you sign a contract and you want to change it in the meantime. The key question is: have too much costs been charged? That's what we need to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	You may ask two questions, Mr Ronnes, but you will have to discuss them internally, otherwise you will have an argument in the group.
