ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I would just like to say that Mr Krol has requested this debate, also on behalf of Mrs Agema. That is why Mrs Agema will speak as the second speaker. I can see from the reactions in the Chamber that there is no objection to that. Then I give the floor to Mr Krol, who speaks on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are lucky to have 4 million carers in the Netherlands. Fantastic: 4 million people looking after someone else or taking care of others. But one in ten carers feels overloaded, so 400,000 people, and as many as 800,000 people report, unable to do more. Let these figures work on you for a moment. I can't believe how many carers take care of their jobs. That deserves to be appreciated. Society is increasingly leaning on their commitment and the question is whether the carers really receive the deserved appreciation, because it is too heavy. 10% felt overloaded in 2014. How high will that percentage be in 2015? Coat support is becoming more and more important. A tour of the municipal websites shows that this support is already being taken seriously in many municipalities. Nice initiatives are also described in the future agenda, but more is needed. 50PLUS proposes a uniform registration. This can be done by municipalities, which are already responsible for support for family care. In order to be able to do that work, it is important to have a picture of who is a caregiver. The criteria for who is and who is not a caregiver can be determined by agreement. That proposal was introduced by the SGP ten years ago. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. If it is clear who is a caregiver, you can also see if we could link something to this in a broad sense. A tax regime, for example, which has so far been broken because it was not clear who is a caregiver, or a statement that someone is a demonstrable caregiver. 50PLUS is still concerned about the old carers. They are increasingly burdened and this group will only grow. How do we keep these people up, I'll ask the Secretary of State. What concrete actions are being taken in response to the recommendations in the future agenda? WMO facilities that can provide lighting, such as day-to-day spending, have become so expensive here and there that some people are forced to refrain from doing so. That's not supposed to happen, is it? How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with this? About half of the caregivers indicate that they are in trouble, mostly due to lack of time. Combining work and care tasks is a matter for employer and employee, the Secretary of State draws up on 24 April last year, but it does not apply to azzp'er. More and more people are becomingzzp'er, often forced, such as 45-plussers who have little chance of a new job. This age group is the main provider of care. How can they be supported? Can our recently proposed registration contribute to this? Is the Minister of SZW prepared to arrange this for the national meeting of care and labour next spring? In the Tijdschrift voor Arbeidsbelegen we read the observation of the Social Cultural Planning Bureau that the majority of the Dutch like to take care of the children themselves, but the care of the parents is a task of the government. However, this is exactly the other way around in public policy. Carefully, the researchers say that this might bite each other. A disturbing thought on which 50PLUS likes to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. One more important question. Many people do not know that they can go to their municipality for care support. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider how information can be optimised? Between all plans to support carers, prevention of overload must be the top priority. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those carers who are working on this day and night with all my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. I wholeheartedly agree with those last words. Before the dismantling of care for the elderly, our country already had some 3.5 million carers, of whom more than 2.5 million were long-term caregivers. 0.5 million of them were already overloaded. Also, in material terms, the old Wmo was already subject to compulsory care in the form of the deduction rule. However, it was these people who had to take on the very considerable relief drive of this cabinet, with all its consequences. Despite the fact that the cabinet did not investigate whether it could place care for the elderly in such a large extent on the shoulders of carers, it was widely warned. PGGM&CO already found that carers became increasingly isolated and the combination with work was becoming increasingly difficult. Motivation pointed out that the limit of employability had been reached, because only one fifth of the Dutch indicated that they wanted to take care of their neighbors. An ANBO survey already showed that a quarter of the elderly had no network at all to fall back on. Former director of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, Paul Schnabel, felt that what more people could do for their neighbors was overrated. Older Ombudsman Jan Romme also indicated that even more care care was unfeasible. ANBO and NPCF already indicated that trusted neighbours were also at an age, so one could not support each other for long. Platform VG found that replacing professional care with household care was based on quicksand. But the uncontrolled austerity drives won, and without us having extensive and in-depth research on the consequences, we still see a lot of worrying signals. I would like to mention a few: a threefold increase in the number of reports of elderly abuse; an increase in the number of elderly people reported due to accidents in the emergency room; an increase in the number of elderly people with severe burn injuries; an increase in the number of confused people picked from the street that appears to be dementing; and an explosion in the number of serious incidents involving confused persons, watched by housing corporations. But nothing's going on, you know, no, everything's getting better, according to the Secretary of State. Things are only organized differently. In his letter, the Secretary of State pretends that his policy is aimed at providing good support for carers. But why is it that carers do not experience his policy as such? Would it be because closing the nursing homes, with some 100,000 victims, is putting even more pressure on carers? Would it be because halving home care, with extrapolating about 30,000 appeals, causes even more pressure on carers? Would it be because the 90% mega-sustaining effect on day-to-day spending puts even more pressure on carers? Would it be because the closed doors of municipalities stopped a quarter of this with the domestic aid................................................................................................................................................................................................. Would it be because it is difficult for carers, if not impossible, to go away for a few days, because so many municipalities buy respite care but not at all anymore? Could it be that government policy does not, in fact, provide support for carers but rather for much less care, and that carers can only fill that gap because they want to care for their father or mother, love them and therefore not leave them to their fate, but go through them themselves? Then there's the shop floor. More and more carers are calling in sick. Stress, mental fatigue, stress and burnout are lurking. That also makes them a problem for employers. In addition to the already overburdened caregiver and the caregiver, employers are also the victims of government policy. They eventually pay the price of the cuts if their employee calls in sick. Providing care is something you do out of love, at least, that's what it should be about. Unfortunately, the equipment is an obligation, which takes its toll in the form of derailed care, but also in the workplace. In addition to the Labour Party, the VVD should also take note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Who asks the caretaker how he or she is? Everyone (in) and Per Balance hear a lot that the kitchen tables are not used enough or not. These conversations are often about how someone with less formal care can come out. The intention was really another one! We are having a debate today on the position of the caregiver. You can look at this from different angles. Legally, at least the caregiver has no real position. In his letter of 13 January, the State Secretary writes that the position of the caregiver in the Wmo 2015 has not been strengthened for nothing. What's he basing that on? I do not see that and I shall come back to that. A caregiver takes care of a sick or disabled person 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, often for weeks and for years. That's not a choice, because it happens to you. Someone you love gets sick. Of course you're gonna take care of that person. This doesn't mean there's no hard feelings about this. Over the past few years, I've received hundreds of stories from carers. These stories, the experience of Each (in) and all investigations, such as those carried out by the SCP, sketch for the CDA at least the picture that caregivers are getting more and more heavily to take care of their neighbors. The number of overburdened carers is increasing. Does the Secretary of State share this analysis and if not, why not? The examples are numerous: two parts of the day less to the daily consumption, only an hour and a half helping the household, have no official position at the kitchen table conversation, changing transport to and from daily consumption. These are just a few examples that show that the non-changing care question or the sometimes heavier care question ends up on the board of the caregiver. I got a story from Angelique on Twitter. Her child is staying at Intermetzo Zonnehuizen, where from six groups to four groups will be moved. Angelique has already been invited to come and talk about how care for her child will remain the same. How is that to be done later, because you often do a lot more than people have to do for children with whom, at least in that way, nothing worrying is going on? We will not talk today about the chaos at the Social Insurance Bank and about what that means for carers, because that is not the end of it either. The administrative burden has also increased. People go from the locker to the wall, they have to fill in more and more papers, a legal representative has to be appointed and a guaranteed help has to be arranged. All this adds up to the administrative burden. What does the Secretary of State intend to do about this? The CDA shares the ambition that people want to stay home longer. You're gonna have to make this work. What's the status on the ward? We are already heading towards the end of January. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? What's the status of the assessment of the Hunting Team-Norder? Mr Norder, together with a committee, would ensure that there would be more care homes. Taking people into institutions, because the caregiver is overburdened and the home is no longer going, is ultimately much more expensive than supporting care at home. I have made several proposals in recent years to improve care, such as the reduction of bureaucracy in intensive care for children and the realisation of other payment flows in the personalised budget, which would make life easier for many carers. I haven't been thought of. I am still working on proposals to improve the position of carers. I therefore propose today to actually give carers a position in the Social Support Act. Take into account in the law that carers are explicitly asked what for and how much work they do and what else they can do. If, in all reasonableness, a caretaker indicates that there is nothing more to it, the municipality should not just ignore it. A distinction must be made between young carers and old carers and also the people they care for. Are you, for example, caring for someone with a physical disability or for someone with psychiatric problems? This must be clearly reported and the municipality should not simply ignore it if it finally decides whether or not to provide care. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State on this point. I also have many reports that people are being told that we have already arranged independent customer support for you, and you are not allowed to take anyone else with you. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants people to worry more, but at the same time it also wants people to work more. Carers are very important. Caring should be equivalent to paid work and therefore deserves real appreciation. As Mr Krol said, there are 4 million carers in the Netherlands. Of these, 610,000 help more than three months and more than eight hours a week. The increasing pressure on carers leads to concerns about overload. One in ten carers is heavily burdened and one in three sometimes loses patience. The consequences of this are poignant. For example, one in three caregivers of dementing elderly people sometimes cross the border: forget to give medicine in time, is too tired to take care of a good meal or binds an older person to a chair to be able to do an errand. Those are stories from 2013, i.e. before the decentralisation and the introduction of the participatory society. The carers seem to be paying the bill for the cabinet plans and the corresponding cuts. I say 'appear' on purpose, because no one here knows what the consequences of decentralisation for carers are. It just hasn't been properly investigated. The Social and Cultural Planning Office also highlights the importance of monitoring developments in the field of family care. The cabinet only starts this year, so we only have evaluations in 2017. It's too late. The reason why the Social and Cultural Planning Agency insists on this is that we do not know where the border is and who pays the price of raising demands on the participating citizen. How much our society can cope with before major problems arise is still a question, and that question should not last too long. That is why I urge you to monitor more effectively and more quickly the decentralisations and their impact on family care. Furthermore, I would like to hear more specifically when the meeting takes place work and care. "This spring" says the Secretary of State, but what is the date and what does the Cabinet bet on? Of course, we shouldn't just monitor carefully. Above all, we must avoid any negative consequences. The interest organisation Mezzo warns that policy must also focus on those caregivers who are not yet overburdened, because once they fail or stop working, it is difficult to reverse that. What is being done to prevent care from becoming too heavy? Carers who provide long-term intensive care have a great chance of becoming ill for long periods of time. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is how he sees this long-term absenteeism among carers. What measures are being taken to prevent this? Are there sufficient opportunities for grace and professional support? We can make it easier to combine work and family care and thus avoid overload, for example by working flexibly through the recently entered into force Act. I hope that carers can take advantage of this, that they can go home early to cook, that they can be home a day if that suits them, or that they can get a morning off if they have to go to the hospital with their neighbor. Caretakers are using nine times more flexible working rules such as home working or flexible working hours than leave arrangements, while on the contrary, leave arrangements can help. However, two thirds of them are not referred to by their employer as statutory leave schemes, according to research carried out by Stichting Werk & Mantelzorg and Mezzo. In addition, only 72% know about the possibilities of temporarily reducing hours of work or temporarily reducing the responsibility for work. The cabinet now seems to focus mainly on employers who want to pursue their own care-conscious personnel policies. But what is being done explicitly to inform people about the possibilities, and to encourage less willing employers to give their employees room for care? Particular attention should be paid to the labour market position of women, since only half of women are economically independent. Women provide more care for their families. But more care and more economic autonomy do not go hand in hand. They even seem to be contradictory wishes. Especially with decentralisation, this is under pressure. So what's the deal with that now? What are the consequences of the decentralisations and the cuts that they have brought to women's labour market position? What studies are known or are being carried out on this subject? I already asked these questions in writing, but I did not get a clear answer to them and so I am now asking them again. Is the government prepared to carry out as soon as possible an investigation into the effects of decentralisation on family care and on women's economic independence? I also ask for the study to be carried out following the Voortman motion of April 2015, on the impact of decentralisation on people's income situations. The 2015 figures should be available by mid-2016, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. Combining works and concerns; more and more Dutch people can talk about it. The number of carers in the workforce is growing. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau signals a growth of 13% to 18%. Those figures are in an investigation over the period up to 2012. Even then there was already talk of extramuralisation of people who needed care. These people will stay home longer. It is likely that with the further extramuralisation in recent years, the number of workers with family care responsibilities has also increased. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau notes in its report that there are two views on family care and paid work. On the one hand, family care and paid work can be competitors of each other. Because of a busy job it is not possible to provide care. If people do in such a situation, there is a risk of overload, absenteeism and so on. On the other hand, there seems to be a great potential for human strength in our society. These are people who are very willing to carry out family care tasks and who can also combine them with paid work. Both views are true, as demonstrated by the study of the SCP. I can see that around me, too. Age co-workers sometimes they're a little older... have parents who are becoming more and more in need of help. Care responsibilities for parents, who often don't live around the corner, are combined with a paid job and care for growing adolescents. That takes a lot of art and flying. If it is limited to a number of hours per week or weekends, it is often possible and, in a sense, it also gives satisfaction. The existing arrangements for combining work and family care can help in this. But it's gonna be different if care for parents is gonna take longer and if that care gets more intensive. It's gonna be different if your partner gets cancer, or ALS. Unfortunately, I also see situations like this around me. Existing arrangements then do not comply. Your colleagues are getting less and less understanding and patience, and the physical and emotional burden is almost unbearable. The Christian Union finds it worrying that support in current policies is not discussed until the caregiver comes to the fore. This is what we want to avoid. What's to be done? I come first of all to the municipalities. Fortunately, municipalities are increasingly engaged in their tasks in the field of care support. At the same time, 20% of the carers provide for someone without any indication. These carers are therefore not in the picture with the municipalities either. How do we find these people? How do we ensure that they receive support when necessary, I ask the Secretary of State of VWS. Secondly, I come to the employers. I find it really worrying that 53% of carers do not use leave schemes, especially because these schemes are simply not known. There would be an information campaign. How's that going? I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment if he is aware of any leave arrangements. Thirdly, it is about ourselves, about the government. Not so long ago, there was an interdepartmental working group which looked at so-called "zzp-friendly policy." In view of the many bottlenecks and the wide scope of problems encountered by carers, it seems sensible to the Christian Union to set up an interdepartmental working group to look at ways of developing family-friendly policies. This is therefore comparable to the other interdepartmental policy research. Combining work and care is one thing, but there is more. I have not yet mentioned in my contribution the cooperation between healthcare organisations and carers and the role that health insurers can play. I have not mentioned respite care, daily spending, the tax rewarding of carers or the complex regulations you are faced with in the realization of household care homes. Are the directors prepared to join forces and set up a working group with particular attention to long-term and intensive care? I have a motion on this in preparation. Finally, I will come back to the group why we all have to do it: the carers. Hub care is not limited to office hours. If carers have questions outside regular working hours, they can often only contact the crisis service. We do not think that is desirable. The Christian Union believes that carers should be able to contact an organisation 24 hours a day for questions, advice and support. That fits the current time. Some municipalities are already working on this. Couldn't we have some national support for this? On this subject, too, I am considering tabling a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. Every year the pressure on the carers increases. Yesterday we received a letter of jubilation from the Secretary of State stating that everything is going well. However, reality is different. One has to look at each other and participate, but there is little to the caregiver. I'm describing a situation based on a letter we received. The 42-year-old cousin of the letter writer has been severely disabled since birth. He moves into an electric wheelchair and lives in a Focus house. He has an indication of 4.5 hours per week of domestic support. Because his health is deteriorating, he needs more help. His parents do a lot of family care. Currently his father often has to go to the hospital and his mother has received physical complaints. This makes it difficult for parents to provide care and requires more help than the current 4.5 hours. Last year, home care was reduced from 6 a.m. to 4.5 a.m. without informing the parents. That happened when the man was in the hospital for a long time and his parents found out too late that they could have objected. The deadline was over. What can we do to ensure that this man gets the help he needs and that the carers can do their job fairly? Another element is the high costs incurred by carers. Telephone costs, travel costs, laundry costs, groceries: 73% of carers indicate that they spend up to €200 per month, with an average of about €100 per month. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Municipalities have been given a budget to appreciate carers. However, they are free in the way in which they shape the valuation. In Oss, the carers were offered lunch as a token of appreciation. There were no less than 50 people coming in, in a city of 90,000 inhabitants. So the largest group was completely missed. The carers who were there felt put away and discarded. They indicated that next time they wouldn't want to come. It is an example of current practice. In view of the high costs incurred by carers and the great amount of work they do, is it possible to assess the budget and oblige municipalities to provide financial compensation, as was the case with the household care compliment? The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau was critical of the situation of carers in its latest report. Of the 4 million carers, one in ten feels heavily burdened. That's 400,000 people. One in three carers sometimes loses their patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u8	I find it interesting that Mr Van Gerven calls Oss. In most cases, party spokesmen give examples from municipalities where they are not very well represented in the city council. However, the SP has nine seats in Oss City Council. Why don't they take care of it better in the city council? Then there is no need to ask here at national level whether it is more compelling to determine how to deal with family care in Oss.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u9	The problem in Oss is that the SP is big there, but it's not in the college. A majority of the parties, led by the CDA and a very large local party, are breaking the case, so to speak. However, I am concerned about the example. We have abolished the patronage compliment. We'll take it to the city. Then this is an extremely minimalist concept of such a municipality. There is an enormous amount of money left, although the money should be invested in or returned to the carers for whom it was intended. But I understand that the SGP hopes that the SP in Oss will grow again so that she can arrange it. Thank you for that support. Who knows what the next election will be in Oss! I said the carers are losing patience, with all the consequences. Overload can be avoided through good support and prevention, but this is missed. For many years we have been talking about the overload of carers. That's not surprising if they have to take over a large part of the care from the 72,000 caregivers sent out by the VVD and Labour Party Cabinet. Those are the people who have flown out of care for the last three years. Current policies are not sufficiently designed to support carers. Nice talk from the Secretary of State doesn't hide the problems that carers struggle with so much. How do I pay all these charges? Can I go on vacation? Where do I find good recess care? Can I even combine it with my job? The Secretary of State does come up with all kinds of plans, experiments and I know all about it, but can he indicate what concrete measures he is taking to tackle and prevent the overload of carers? Recession care is an important tool for providing occasional air for carers. Can the Secretary of State indicate how municipalities deal with their respite care? He says it's getting better and better. At least that's what I read. However, the practice is different. In the second quarter of last year, for example, Mezzo received a doubling of the number of reports on grace care. So things aren't going so well. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State what's going on, especially with the occasional respite home care. Then you ask if someone can take care of your neighbor for a day at home, so you can go away for a day. That should be possible. I ask the Secretary of State to reflect on the question of how municipalities should handle this. The Secretary of State says that carers are often involved in conversations with municipalities. However, we also receive signals that many municipalities have little insight into and knowledge of carers within their municipality. They will not be reached. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to this observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we have 4 million carers. Almost a quarter of the population provides support to another. Let us not forget that five out of six also do so alongside a job and manage to combine it. Since there are two directors present today, we ask to hear more about the ideas on how family care and informal care can be combined with a job. What plans does the Cabinet have left? We also have almost 1 million volunteers in the Netherlands. It is important, I think, to distinguish between informal care and informal care, although some of the people who provide informal care are also carers. We may really be proud of these numbers, but there is still a world to be won in terms of guidance, recognition, appreciation and support for carers. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has carried out a thorough study of the carers, but this research has been done just before the decentralisations. I am therefore very curious about the second measurement, which will take place at the end of 2016, so that we can also include the impact of decentralisation. We have received the Cabinet's progress letter on informal care, but it is not yet clear to me what the Cabinet will do on the basis of the current report. I hope I can hear more about that. An important question is still missing from the current reporting. How do the recipients experience the informal care and the carers? I think it is important that these people themselves should be able to indicate what that is like, rather than talk about them. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will undertake to include this in the next investigation. Municipalities are at play; that is clear. Of course, we're curious as to how things are going. I think that's part of the transition phase we're still in. How is the kitchen table conversations going, for example? Is sufficient attention paid to the factor of family care and informal care? Overtaxing carers is not a subject of the last few years; it is unfortunately a well-known subject. However, we also see that there are various support options that are often little used. One in five carers doesn't use it. My question to the Secretary of State is: how can we increase awareness? Mr Krol has also asked questions about this. In Amsterdam we see a beautiful initiative. The groups of D66 and PvdA have come up with a proposal to provide breathing space for carers. They can spend a night out or a weekend away to continue full of energy, while in the meantime that is of course important care is guaranteed. We are very excited about this kind of innovative accommodation. How can we ensure that such fine examples become more widely known? I still notice that municipalities often reinvent the wheel. The SCP report shows that the cooperation between carers and professionals and between carers and nursing homes can really be improved. We've seen that before. What is the Secretary of State doing to improve cooperation? I also have a question about the personal budget. I note that in practice there is a great deal of uncertainty about parents and family members who receive a personalised budget and carers and volunteers who do not receive it. You will notice that this leads to very unpleasant discussions. I think it is important for the Secretary of State to explain again what the difference between them is and that he communicates this through the UNG, because I am convinced that this will prevent unpleasant misunderstandings. From congregations I also got the reaction: we are talking about carers, then you can't actually get a pgb if you take care of your own family. There are a lot of prejudices about that. I would like to deal with two more issues. There are family-friendly arrangements, but we see that little use is made of them. For example, a long-term care leave scheme was introduced not so long ago. How can we communicate these things, which we have now taken care of and for which D66 has been advocating for a long time, so that people can make use of them? I end up with a subject that I always come up with: regulation pressure. At the moment, it's a lot of work for clients, family and carers to take care of. We will soon receive a letter from the Secretary of State on regulatory pressure in long-term care. We're really looking forward to that. We're going to have another debate on that, but maybe the Secretary of State can tell us a little bit more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Chairman. Caring is of great value to our society and to the people who receive care. Of course, we often talk about how heavy and incriminating it is sometimes for the carers, but it is good to see that people also often see it as an enrichment of their daily lives and that they take care of the people around them daily, weekly or monthly with love. Many of them feel uncomfortable when the administrative term "mantle care" is used. They like to help their partner, parent, chronically ill child or neighbors without having to stand up to it. That's good to see, and that deserves a big compliment. Several Members of Parliament have already expressed that compliment. Although most people taking on care tasks consider this to be the most normal thing in the world, we must also realise that the increasing ageing of the population increases the pressure on the caregivers. Five out of six carers have a paid job and the combination of care and work can be very burdensome. Mrs Bergkamp also pointed out just now. This is certainly the case when a caregiver provides care for a longer period of time, according to the report of the SCP entitled Informal Help: who does what? I'd like to make a personal note. Last November my sister diagnosed colon cancer and she was recorded several times in the AMC in Rotterdam. Like my mother, she's a life-long cancer patient and the family, including myself, has to come up regularly, even at this time. Especially with this busy job as a Member of Parliament, that is sometimes not easy. However, I do not feel like a caretaker in the formal sense of the word; I am helping my neighbor because I think that is normal and I like to do so. But I really have a great deal of understanding and appreciation for carers who have to do so much more. I fully understand the challenges involved, for example in finding the right balance between care tasks and work. Both the caregiver and the employer have a role to play in this. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is also the first responsibility. One: be open to the conversation. Two: pay attention to the home situation. Three: make appointments on an individual level. Fortunately, we are seeing more and more examples in business where this signal is being picked up and what is being addressed. My own experiences so far are also largely positive. A good example is the "male company" De Groot Installatiegroep, which was accompanied a few years ago by an agency specialising in the care-making of companies. In this installation plant it was revealed that very many, mainly male, workers had family care responsibilities. By making this possible with leading colleagues, flexible solutions were found, absenteeism has fallen significantly and job fun has increased. No additional arrangements were needed for this. In fact, they could even stand in the way of the necessary good conversation. For example, one of the installers has a disabled child. Thanks to the open culture in the company, the manager also knows this. If the disabled transport for the child is late one day, the employee can pass this on to the supervisor without embarrassment. Who knows why the employee is late and can quickly arrange a replacement, so that the work can still be carried out. This is a good example. Thanks to the understanding attitude of the supervisor, the employee is willing to make up for the missed hours in that week at a later time. The existing legislation is only used by just over half of the carers. Other Members have also referred to this. As far as the VVD is concerned, therefore, efforts should be made to raise awareness and discuss the issue of family care in the workplace, as this can still be done. Could both directors perhaps comment on this and indicate what they can do for that purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u12	I have listened carefully to the VVD's speech and I recognize many of the points raised by Mr Potters. However, does the VVD agree that not only are many schemes unknown, but that the schemes are often insufficient for the group in which the schemes are known?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u13	On the one hand, it is important to have arrangements so that you can clarify in advance, but on the other hand it is also extremely important that clear agreements are made with the employer. That was also evident from the example. If the arrangements are inadequate, I think it is the responsibility of the employer and the caregiver to reach a good agreement together. I find it difficult to say that it is not enough in all cases. I think it is a responsibility of both to ensure that there is a real solution. Sometimes that can be done in a very creative way. If the arrangements are inadequate, perhaps it would be appropriate for Mrs Dik-Faber to clarify what she means by that. It's a little general now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u14	It is, of course, fantastic if employer and employee come to a solution together. That is absolutely my preference. But I can point out the examples around me of situations where there is long-term care where existing schemes do not actually comply and workers are left to the goodwill of their employer to come up with creative solutions together. Often that goes well, but often it doesn't, because that entrepreneur also has a business to run. There's an understanding for that, too. Once again, without going directly into this case, I would like to ask whether the VVD is prepared to consider whether, in the situation of long-term intensive care, for example in the case of ALS patients, there is an opportunity to examine existing rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u15	Absolutely. The rules must be clear and clear. Where these are too complex or not feasible, we must consider what we can improve. We're also in the Chamber to see what we can improve on what's going on. However, I would like to prevent us from putting the idea that we can regulate everything, precisely because tailor-made work offers much more in such a special situation than a specific rule. If we can improve rules, then Mrs Dik has me by her side, but I would like to add this comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u16	Madam President. If someone would wake me up at night and ask me what care is for me, I would immediately answer: strengthen, enlighten, connect. Such an impression has been made of me by the Cabinet's note that the Chamber received and discussed earlier. In fact, I thought it was three clear key words about what is actually needed in dealing with problems that carers now have to deal with. It is about strengthening the legal status of carers, alleviating their task, for example through grace care, and connecting formal and informal care properly: what does the institution do and what do you do for your neighbor or partner? A problem that many colleagues have mentioned this evening is: how many people are aware that they are carers? I remember the smile of that old man who did so much for his wife at home. When I started talking about nursing, he said he'd never thought about being a caretaker before. Looks like it's always about someone else. This means that you are also not sensitive to reading what is made available neatly for policy-makers and you may not make sufficient use of the offer of lighting, which is indeed there. How can we reach the caregiver closer to home? I believe that municipalities play a very important role in this. I also hope that we will not only have a debate here on report 1 or headline 2, but that we will have the regular debates on progress on all the various actions on family care that are enshrined in the cabinet policy and monitor its coherence. When I look at a number of concrete bottlenecks in this light, I would like to draw attention to strengthening the financial position of carers. Mezzo published the news a while ago, showing that more than half of the carers are in severe financial difficulties or are even in short supply as a result of the care tasks. We received a letter from the cabinet saying that it would discuss this further with Mezzo. Has that happened yet? What opportunities does the government see for providing caregivers with a more effective financial response than has been the case so far? Isn't it an idea to practice that in the kitchen table discussions municipalities map the financial consequences for both caregivers and caregivers? For example, it can be said immediately that special assistance is possible instead of being done by a completely different window. I would also like to draw attention to the interplay between caregiver and professional in an institution. For example, if someone gives medicine to a disabled child at home, but it gets too heavy at home and the child therefore goes to live in an institution, I wonder why parents should not also be allowed to administer medicines in the institution. It is now unclear where the responsibilities lie if something goes wrong. There will be a hand-out, as I read in the Secretary of State's letter. Can the Chamber have that hand-out if it is actually available?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u17	I should like to return to a previous point by Mr Van der Staaij. He asked whether it would not be good, for example, to look not only at the financial situation of the person concerned but also at that of the carers in people's homes. Now he says there is special assistance, but of course it is only for a very select group. Does Mr Van der Staaij think that the group that is above it, which is likely to have higher burdens again and where the problem of finance can play, should be dealt with in one way or another?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u18	We have already drawn attention to this and a letter has also been sent about it. Where there are financial problems arising from family care, such as travel expenses or, for example, laundry costs, consideration should be given to the possibility of reimbursement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u19	That's nice, but municipal regulations do not exceed 120% of the minimum. That's only a limited part. Let me ask you a very specific question. From the predecessor of Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van der Vlies, we had the household care compliment. Wouldn't it be a good thing if we just put that back in town, so that people in that area can be met in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u20	The family care compliment was indeed a very sympathetic idea. My predecessor Van der Vlies brought it here into the Chamber. However, we have also had to observe that it gave rise to a lot of implementation costs and that it was also very difficult to determine that group precisely with a national regulation. It was not actually a compensation for financial costs, but rather a gesture of sympathy and recognition for the work carried out. In itself, I can very well imagine that we have said that it could be done in a better way and with more tailor-made work as municipalities it gives freedom and does not allow the money to swim away. Municipal councils must be alert to the fact that the money is also used for that purpose in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u21	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u22	I come to the support of carers by municipalities. In several places in the Social Support Act, the role of the caregiver is anchored, also by the amendment I tabled with Mr Otwin van Dijk at the time. It must not only be about what a caregiver can do, but also about how a caregiver can be supported. My question to the Secretary of State is also to what extent this is happening in practice. In fact, I still have a great deal of unfamiliarity with the improved legal status of the caregiver. Can the Secretary of State shed his light on that? What are the reasons for this and how does he intend to increase awareness? The second point that I would like to draw attention to is that grace care is only getting under way very slowly, while it was expected that more demand would be generated as a result of decentralisation. Apparently, there is some embarrassment here in translating the container concept of "respect care" into practical help. Is my view that there is still a great deal to be gained, particularly in crisis situations? I am now told that municipalities often take weeks to assess an application for grace care, while the support after hospitalisation, for example, is urgently needed. Perhaps the Secretary of State may draw attention to the faster and better anticipation of the need for respite care in the conversation with the municipalities. Finally, the need for support for care is sometimes mapped out well during the kitchen table conversation, but not adjusted again if the care demand becomes heavier. That too is very important in practice. In order to avoid overload, it is also necessary to look at what the caregiver needs at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr. Chairman. Of every three Dutch people, one provides care. Five out of six carers combine work and family care. Together, that's over 4 million. Like Mr Potter, I would like to say something small, something personal, because care is something very familiar to me. I've taken care of my mother myself for years. Given my background, that is normal and there is also a pressure that needs to be covered. That's why I know it's very hard sometimes. I won't be heard saying that it isn't. I would therefore like to begin by expressing appreciation for all the carers and also for the volunteers who provide informal care, because they are invaluable. The Secretary of State has taken quite a few steps. There are very good things in the plans that have been put forward. There are several reports and agendas. I hope they will make a real contribution to the support of the caregiver. In fact, I'm counting on it. I do have some questions about some of them. Overload can lead to derailed care. I have also asked written questions about this, because the publicity has shown that sometimes there is so much pressure on the care provider that there is psychological and physical violence, from pure impotence and fatigue on the part of the caregiver. That's an important signal. I therefore very much welcome the pilots that the Secretary of State is going to set up on this issue. What is the Secretary of State going to do to involve carers in this? The parties mentioned in the piece are all professionals and it concerns mainly the carers themselves. I hope they get involved. Another important point, which Mr van der Staaij has already mentioned, concerns the rules on what volunteers or carers are allowed to do or not to do and the lack of clarity about it. One point which I regularly hear concerns the reserved actions. What can a caretaker or a volunteer do or not do? It seems that this is quite clear for volunteers, but carers sometimes want to do more, for example putting a syringe on their own or something else that is a reserved act. Is it possible that these people get an exemption so they can do that? How do they learn these skills? Does the Secretary of State have an answer to that? A lot of attention is paid to strengthening the interplay between carers and volunteers, but I heard that this can also cause many problems in a hospice. A hospice is the place where family is present, who would very much like to provide that last care, while the professionals have started to appreciate the commitment of carers less. Can such a hospice or any other organisation struggling with it also use the program In voor Mantelzorg? How can they access it? The Secretary of State says that quite a few results have been achieved. Learning experiences have been gained. How can we ensure that they are also within the reach of others than just the supporters of that working group? This is going to hand that out to the grassroots, but not everyone is a supporter of that working group. Despite all the steps in the right direction, 400,000 carers are overburdened. That's a lot of them. To a large extent, we must prevent this, as Mezzo has also said. I think we should do this with the help of organisations like Mezzo. What can the Secretary of State do to reduce that number very strongly? Important measures have been taken to support people who combine work and care, such as in the Labour and Care Act. We also have the law of Mrs Voortman and others on flexible work. The figures show that people need more flexible work than leave arrangements. These can be used for this purpose, in consultation with the employer. There are employers who like it when you do not take twice your working time twice a week for short-term care leave, but when you spread it over a year and take hours for it each time. When dealing with the Social Affairs and Employment budget, we asked for a motion to make that more public to the people. Could this be extended, with the explanation that the leave we have arranged can also be taken flexibly? I am also pleased that the project Work and Family Care is still being financed this year. I hope that the Minister will keep the option open to continue with this in the future, because it is and remains important to make employers and employees aware of the importance of being a caregiver. This is also a way for employers to keep their employees sustainable. In order to support and facilitate carers, several ministries are involved, which have to do everything in their power to coordinate policies. Family carers often say that they feel that they do not support each other, but sometimes even oppose each other. I would like to hear a response to this, because I am considering tabling a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u24	That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr. Chairman. If your partner, your neighbor or your parent is sick and you take care or support tasks, you usually get a bit of a double feeling. By the way, I always say: maybe "take on" isn't very well expressed, because that happens often and you do it out of love. That's what you notice in the reports about it. It is very beautiful and loving to do this and often quite natural, but at the same time it is very incriminating, very heavy. And whatever we make up, whatever policy we make, that double will always be in it. If your partner or your parent is sick, he's sick. You're sad about that. I heard a young caregiver say, "I'm taking care of my mother now, but actually my mother should take care of me." In all our attention to family care, we must therefore constantly state that this care is self-evident, but that we cannot appreciate it enough. In addition, we must always realise that this is something heavy and sad for people, and that it is something you cannot prevent. A question that often comes back in debates on family care is whether family care replaces professional help. No, that's not the case. It is about care "with" and not about care "instead." It is precisely a question of increasing the attention paid to carers in the care sector. It is also important to note that if we do nothing at all, the need for care simply increases and the nature of it changes. This is because we are in an ageing society, which makes care for many more people self-evident, more people come across and more people are granted out of love. That is why it is so important that we not only pay attention to the client in our healthcare and support policies, but also pay more and more attention to the carers and their position. This is also regularly discussed in the debates within the care itself. For example, it is often said that the diagnosis "dementia" actually means two diagnoses: one for those who get dementia and one for the caregiver, who gets a lifelong, very difficult task thrown into the lap. I think it is also good to look at care from an international perspective. Especially in the field of long-term care, family care and community care abroad play a much more important role in society than in the Netherlands. We have organised a great deal of institutional work, and we are proud of that. In the long-term care, in which quality of life is so important, family care and community care are even more important in some respects than formal technical care. I believe that they deserve a revaluation and that they should be given a role in it. Quality of life deserves recognition and revaluation. In a changing society, family care and community care require a review, particularly in the area of long-term care. A caring society is also a society in which there is simply more care for each other and in which there is recognition and appreciation for family care and volunteering; these are inextricably linked to the way in which we in the Netherlands want to organise care and support. You can see that in the reports that are now appearing here and there. Before I answer the questions, it seems good to remember that one in three Dutch gives informal help. Carers take care of their neighbors. Volunteers offer other people voluntary help in everyday life. They are often mentioned in one breath with carers, but let us make a distinction between them. They have in common that they take care of people from an intrinsic motivation. This is perhaps also the most important line in the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau: caring for each other is more and more part of ordinary life. Fortunately, more and more attention is being paid to this. The Chamber has a slightly different picture of this, but I note that informal care is becoming more and more national. Great attention is paid to carers and volunteers in the parties. Mr Van der Staaij mentioned all the three strokes strengthening, illuminating and connecting. I think that this has been an important opportunity, especially for the organisations involved in family care, but also for professionals to think differently about carers and volunteers. In the coming year, I want to be on three lines. We now need to turn this national agenda into a local agenda, where local parties are equipped to shape this change in practice. We go to a more life-wide view of informal care and care across the domains, in work, in training, in cure and in technology. The presence of Minister Asscher underlines this joint commitment in a number of areas. We will continue to monitor these developments in practice, including by repeating the SCP study in 2016. That is an immediate answer to a few questions. There are very nice examples to give. I was recently on a working visit to Renault, where they make care available on the workplace and come to individual agreements. I see that there is a change in health care institutions. You used to take your father or mother to an institution and you didn't have so much to say about it. Now institutions are open to the involvement of carers. This is evident from the results of the programme In voor Mantelzorg. Future professionals receive much more attention in their training to the relationship with informal care providers. This became clear to me at a guest lecture for students and carers that was held in Eindhoven last June. There are technical possibilities to help carers, for example a sensor system that monitors the living patterns of the elderly, so that the caregiver, including the caregiver, can see if action is needed. You can also see that the focus in the media is shifting, and thus the social debate. I mention the recently launched RTL4 programme I Take care of You, which outlines the beautiful and vulnerable aspects of the daily life of carers and volunteers. This also contributes to identifying, improving and paying attention to local implementation. I think that last year's commitment is also paying off. A number of Members have asked for this. The Future Agenda Informal care and support of September 2014 is now working on the local workplace. In the programme In voor Mantelzorg, approximately 6,000 carers and 3,000 carers have been reached in 80 routes across seven sectors. The beauty of these pathways is that structural improvements have been made in the workplace, such as a stronger position of the carers, for example when discussing the care plan in the institutions. As far as I'm concerned, that movement doesn't end with this program. However, I have decided to extend the programme by six months so that the results can be better disseminated. This is an immediate answer to a number of questions on how to spread awareness, knowledge and knowledge and information. Following the amendment by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij, last autumn a three-year voluntary programme was launched in which 13 national voluntary organisations participate, precisely with the aim of highlighting the promotion of expertise and better guidance of local volunteers. Finally, in this context, I would like to mention the development of practical instruments in response to SCP research. In this we are trying to provide very concrete tools for carers and volunteers to see when they become overloaded. That instrument has now been tested by 300 carers. I say this in response to Mrs Tanamal's justified question as to whether the carers themselves are involved. That's done. In the meantime, the instrument is being developed by health insurers. Informal care is therefore more and more part of ordinary life. Many care tasks are combined. People can receive a great deal of appreciation for caring, but we do need to pay attention to the overload. 400,000 people sometimes feel heavily burdened, sometimes so heavily burdened that they lose their patience and sometimes roughly act towards the needy. I have just spoken about the action plan for the elderly in safe hands. This is also aimed at breaking this taboo. Together with a number of municipalities, Safe Home, family support organisations and the VNG, we also start pilots to stimulate cooperation between the parties. Finally, as an introduction, I would like to point out that we remain very alert to signals coming towards us. Mr Krol mentioned the recent article of the SCP and Utrecht University in the Magazine for Labour Affairs, in which the difference between the wishes of citizens and those of the government was discussed, it seemed. I would just like to say a few words: it says that the care of the elderly is primarily a matter for the public. They want to keep enough time for their children, while the government would like that policy to be the other way around. Let us take a look at the future of our society. We want to improve the quality of life of many older people. Then I am convinced that this cannot be done alone with technical professional care. Just support from close relatives, through your immediate environment, is of incredibly important for the quality of life. A society that is involved means that we must also talk about how we look at each other more. Especially in a society that cashes, that is of the utmost importance. I now come to the question of answers to a number of questions put by the Chamber. Mr Krol asked whether we should not move towards uniform registration of carers. I understand his question. What I have reservations about is the uniform registration. There's no such thing as a caretaker. There are a lot of different carers and there are a lot of different ways to see if you are a carers. I do see that municipalities need information in shaping their family care policies. Who exactly are carers? What are they doing and where can we or cannot support? I would like to take his question in such a way that I am going to discuss with the VNG what bottlenecks municipalities face in shaping household care policy. This also concerns questions such as: what exactly are we talking about and how should we interpret it? The results will then be included in the progress reports on long-term care which we will send to the Chamber. I see his point, but I hesitate to increase the administrative burden, impose new registration burdens and determine from The Hague what "uniform" might be. So I would like to take his point with me in that way. Mr Krol also asked me how we maintain the carers. What concrete actions are there for this? A number of Members have asked about the position of carers. Is it really reinforced? I would point out that the Wmo provides for municipalities to involve carers in their research into the load and capacity of clients. They must look not only at clients but also at the position of carers in the kitchen table. I support municipalities through practical days with recommendations on respite care. Soon the Mezzo Grace Guide will appear to guide carers into the respite care available. The program In voor Mantelzorg for professionals in the care to strengthen the collaboration between carers and professionals, is slowly getting more and more familiar. I would say to Mrs Tanamal: where organisations or parts of them are interested in the In voor Mantelzorg programme, I will ensure that through the appropriate channels the awareness of the programme can increase even further. Mr Krol, Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van der Staaij asked whether the knowledge and information on support could be optimised much further in order to prevent overload. I have agreed with Mezzo that the Grace Guide will be updated. In it you can see in a very easy way what respite care is available where in the immediate vicinity. In addition, I would like to bring the possibilities of regulatory assistance to the attention of carers. This facility can also help carers with their care questions. In addition, it is important that the professionals of care and well-being who work in the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods pay attention to the client's environment. During a kitchen table conversation attention should be paid to family care. It is very important that the district nurse, who can establish the connection between the social domain and the medical domain, is aware of all the possibilities offered by the municipality. You see more and more of this happening. In 80 sections within the programme In voor Mantelzorg, this has been intensively deployed over the past period. I'll share those lessons with all the congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u26	I would like to dwell on a concrete example. It's occasional grace care, and it's a man and a woman. The man is demented and the woman must be hospitalized for one day. Now there was a possibility for respite care and the man went to a care hotel. That went all wrong. That's imaginable in a dementiaal image. The solution would be for that man to just stay home and have someone at home overseeing, for example for one night. The question to the Secretary of State is whether this can be done within the rules currently in place, and if not, how could it be arranged, because I think it is a very practical solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u27	That seems to me to be a very practical solution, but I am not going to think about what the solution would be for an individual case, with a very specific case. We don't know exactly how long that recording takes. We also don't know which care or support is suitable for the gentleman in question. Indeed, the regulation leaves room, including for municipalities, for tailored grace care to be provided, including in situations such as this. This should therefore primarily be the subject of a discussion with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u28	I think that is very weak of the Secretary of State, because of course the municipalities have to implement it, but it is something else. For example, the case mentioned comes from Mezzo, which has identified it. There's a discussion about who's gonna pay for that. The health insurance company can play a role or the municipality. In practice, it appears that it is not regulated in this specific situation. Should this home solution, if we want to provide tailored care and support the caregiver, not just be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u29	That kind of thing is possible. I do not think it is a good idea to say that we should not decide in The Hague what is the best intervention in the situation of Mr or Mrs. It is our job, and this is very strong, to ensure that municipalities and health insurance companies have the space to find tailor-made solutions in such situations. Is that okay in all cases? Certainly not, but I do note that we have made regulations with each other that allow us to jump into individual situations and, for example, to seek temporary treatment, so that people are supported in situations like this. That seems to me to be the right way of doing things. Mrs Agema has asked why carers do not see the family care policy as support. I think that is indeed the case with some people. I have just said that care in daily life is, on the one hand, a very beautiful task, which comes to you out of love, but on the other hand sometimes also leads to overload and sadness. According to the VNG's Report on Research in Mantel Care Policy last spring, most municipalities provide information on access, on available facilities, on respite care, and that most municipalities involve carers in the kitchen table discussion. I acknowledge, and you can see this in the discussion about the kitchen table conversations, that this sometimes goes very well and sometimes not well. Sometimes people don't think they're being heard enough. That is also why we are working with the VNG to see if the people who hold the kitchen tables on behalf of the municipalities, for example by promoting expertise, can gain more attention to the position of carers. Then the carers will experience much better that they are actively involved in determining the demand for support. Mrs Keijzer said that the number of overburdened carers is increasing and she asked me to share that statement. It depends a little bit on the way you look. Of course, every overburdened caregiver is one too many. In the SCP research Help was provided first of all based on the definition of household care from the Wmo 2015. This is a broader definition than that of the 2007 old Wmo. Then you see that the numbers are a bit different. At that time it was 450,000 and now it is 400,000, but that is why I am not going to say that the number has fallen, because they are other definitions. On the contrary, we must ensure that we are more aware of the overburdened caregiver and, in particular, of the prevention of this overload. So I very much agree that this is an important issue and that early intervention and early warning are incredibly important to prevent overburdened carers. I have just said that the position of care in the Wmo 2015 has really been strengthened by law. This is also the answer to a question from Mrs Van Keijzer. I quote: 'The College is obliged to take general measures to enable carers and volunteers to carry out their duties as far as possible. In a kitchen table examination not only the caregiver should be present if possible, but the need for measures to support the caregiver should be part of the research." Mrs Keijzer also mentioned an example: the Solar House, which goes from four to three groups, and invited parents to come and talk about maintaining care. I do not know the case in this instance either, but it is not in advance that where the care in the institution changes, the institution wants to talk about it with the parents, not only to inform them of the changes that are going to take place, but also to involve them and see what is best for them. If the indication is no longer sufficient because the situation has changed, as I say in response to a question from Mr Van der Staaij, it must indeed be reviewed. That's also part of the customization. You don't take a single picture, but you must also have an eye for the film that signs up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u30	I am not asking the Secretary of State to respond to an individual case, because that would go far too far for now. Anyway, people are getting a letter saying that they are going from six to four groups and that the care institution is obliged to implement this phasing-out quickly; that is from 1 February, very soon. With that letter they are then invited to a conversation to tune at an individual level whether this has consequences for their child and what it means. The reason I'm putting this forward is that it's moving fast and it's causing great uncertainty for people. To the left or to the right this is an extra tax on family.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u31	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u32	I'd like to pay so much attention to that. Does the Secretary of State realize this? What can be done to keep an eye on how this doesn't just push people over the edge of what's left to hang on to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u33	That's just having a conversation with the people involved, the family, the relatives, so you can figure out what's going on. Is the care adjusted? What does that mean for you? How can we support this? Here too, you will have to do customization. It is also just right, I think, that where care changes in an institution, in this case parents are involved at a very early stage and that people talk about what this means and what can be done to ensure that care is given as best as possible. That doesn't necessarily have to be bad. I think that the key word here too is: in the individual case consult; in this case not only with the client, if possible, but also with the parents or relatives in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u34	Finally, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u35	And yet, why does this happen often? That's because it's said from the healthcare office at some point that the budget is going down. Is the Secretary of State talking to health care offices to ask if the effects of this are still in the picture? Not only can we say that the budget is going down, solve it. After a year, it is also necessary to ask again what consequences this has had and whether the health care institutions can continue to provide proper care. Is the Secretary of State doing this yet? If not, does he want to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u36	Actually, the answer is that healthcare agencies are supposed to do that. Care agencies have a duty of care and should therefore ensure that the amount of care and the quality of care they contract result in people receiving the care to which they are legally entitled. That's part of the healthcare firm's procurement policy. This includes looking back at whether the procurement policy meets the requirements that we impose in the law on the obligation of care. Mrs Keijzer also made a very valid point about the increase in administrative burdens. That is a point that needs our full attention and also has my full attention. Things have to be looked at in a different way. In the end, clients should really experience the benefits of the reforms themselves. If they find that they involve more administrative burdens, that is not good. I regularly inform the Chamber of how work is being carried out on reducing administrative burdens. As previously promised, I will refer by letter to the implementation of the Van Dijk/Bergkamp motion on the reduction of administrative burdens, prior to the debate on the administrative burden in the care to be planned, as Mrs Bergkamp pointed out. Ms Keijzer is right that further reducing the administrative burden on institutions and clients should be one of the top priorities in 2016. With the letter and further action that we will take, I hope the Chamber will find that we take this point very seriously. She also asked me about Mr Norder's neighborhood care and hunting team. This quarter the Chamber will receive the final report from Mr Norder's hunting team, along with my response. The report on the new funding of the district nursing service can also be expected from me shortly. This is a bit of an ugly term, but some preliminary figures have already been provided on the budget framework for neighbourhood care. As agreed, after this first quarter, the Chamber will receive the most recent figures for the district nursing service. She also asked me if municipalities could ignore it if a caregiver indicated that he could not do more. I agree with her statement. Cartel care cannot be required. If a caregiver is unable to provide the support he provided earlier, or can no longer have it, the municipality must take this very seriously. As a result, the municipality will increase the aid. Finally, she asked if the caretaker could be present at the kitchen table, even if there is independent customer support. The Wmo 2015 is clear about that. It is arranged that the college of B and W conducts the research and conducts the kitchen table interview in consultation with the client and, where possible, with the caregiver. Whether there is independent customer support should not affect the possibility of being a caregiver in that investigation. Mrs Voortman asked me how we look at the effects of decentralisation and policy on family care. She found 2017 too late for an investigation. I agree with her. The SCP investigation last December, Informal help: who's doing what?, I will repeat in the second half of 2016. This is precisely in the context of the evaluation of long-term care. We can then see in the perspective what is going on with the size, the burden and the support of carers. I have already made a number of comments on the prevention of overburdened and derailed care. I have been asked what we are doing preventively. I told you, in the investigation of the kitchen table, it's important to look not only at the client, but also at the caregiver. I am impressed by the projects in the programme In voor Mantelzorg, in which 3,000 professionals have been reached and in which the collaboration between professionals and carers has been very concretely designed on the work floor. I find enthusiastic professionals in there, who show and notice how they involve carers in the work. This is incredibly important to prevent overload and derailment. Good cooperation between professional care and informal care can ensure that overload is avoided. For the summer I start with some municipalities a pilot specifically focused on derailed care. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked how we find the carers of people without indication. We don't always find them. It is important for municipalities to have a policy to ensure that people who feel like a carer or have questions can reach the municipality. They must be able to find the city. It must be an easy-to-access facility. I think it will be a lot to ask municipalities to go hunting with the question of who is a caretaker. I would like to make this a commitment to Mr Krol. It might be good to look at whether municipalities are running into bottlenecks. Who exactly are carers? How do you feel about that? Do you have to register them or not? You will hear the hesitation in my voice. I am prepared to look with the VNG at the bottlenecks faced by municipalities, even if these are bottlenecks in relation to the question of who are carers and how to find out. I've already agreed to do that. I would point out, moreover, that the elderly's associations, the care services, the parents and relatives and the people working in the district teams are very often actively investigating whether there are problems with the caregiver. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if there could be national support for carers. I'm not sure what she means by that support. When it comes to the question of whether you can call someone, I would like to point out that there is a Mezzo household care line and that there are support points in municipalities. These are low-threshold so carers can also call those support points. It is perhaps good to take this point from Mr Krol in that little study, if I may put it that way, to see what is going on with the support of carers at municipal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u37	We've been in touch with Mezzo about this. What is not there is a service that can be reached for 24 hours by carers. Handler care extends over 7 days a week, 24 hours a day. That's not gonna stop. I am getting feedback from municipalities that carers in the night hours, for example, can only go to a crisis service. That's not the place to ask their questions. Municipalities in the country are now working, not all of them, to set up their own facility for this purpose. However, we can also imagine that this will be further facilitated and spread across the country with national support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u38	I would like to make a comment on that. If someone needs support at difficult hours, it's wise to have someone on the line who can do something. If you have some sort of rural thing you can call, it will often be so that you have to fall back on the supporters you have. In cases where this occurs, there should be contacts with the district nurse, with the case manager or with the district team. I would find it more important to arrange it at that level than to create a kind of 24-hour service nationwide that people ultimately have nothing to do with, because they are being referred to the local aid workers. So I think it would be better to continue to invest this at a local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u39	I also see the tension that the Secretary of State sketches here. It has to be done locally and you also want a call to get a follow-up if necessary. However, I am now getting signals from carers who want advice during the night hours, for example. They don't need someone in the house right away, but they just want advice or a listening ear because it's getting too much for them. So these calls also end up in crisis services. Could we think of something for that? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u40	Maybe I should take a look at it, I should pay attention to it in the next progress report. There's a lot of business already. We've got Sensor, we've got the district teams, we've got 24-hour access to neighborhood care, and there's availability required in case of major cases. I have great hesitation in coming up with something new. I would particularly like to look at what is available, whether there are problems and what kind of advice one should be able to find somewhere in the middle of the night. A listening ear is a very different question than if there is something medically necessary for which one simply needs to be able to call the aid worker. Perhaps I can pay some attention to this in the next progress report. Mr Van Gerven asked for high costs to be incurred by carers. We have already discussed in the debate that this careful examination of what is now appropriate support also raises the question of the financial position. In my letter of 2 December, I asked the aldermen about any problems in the disposable income of both the client and the caregiver. They have the mandate and also the opportunities to fully support clients and their carers, not only in terms of living and transport, but also in terms of work and income. Moreover, I would point out that this often does not have to be financial, but can also consist of alleviating care tasks. Following that letter and the discussion I had on it, the UNG intends to focus on even better informing municipalities and carers about the existing arrangements and possibilities. This is the subject of coordination with Mezzo. It will be part of the learning modules developed by the VNG for those who conduct the survey with the carers and clients. I'll take care of you, then. Should we oblige municipalities to make a financial contribution? I don't think so. Mr Van der Staaij already pointed out that we had a scheme of family care compliments. He said that this was a very good idea in itself, but said that in practice, in implementation, it was sometimes unfair and sometimes very high implementation costs. According to the inventory of the VNG, I have already sent a letter on this subject: 87% of the municipalities involved carers in the design of the valuation. I think it's a very affectionate point. There are several forms: respite care and domestic help, but also all kinds of things in the sphere of pampering and sometimes also a money sum. The law states that municipalities have the space to come up with locally-equipped valorisation policies. I think it would be a good idea to give that a chance first. We must not say now, after less than 12 months, that we must do this in a different way. That other way also had major disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u41	Municipalities can, of course, cross the line. I mentioned an example in which it was about the element 'rating'. A municipality invited carers to lunch. That meeting was actually a failure and was not appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u42	What is your question, Mr Van Gerven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u43	Can the Secretary of State say something about that again? What does he think of the element "valor for the caregiver"? I do not want the Secretary of State to say that I am speaking here about an individual case and that he is not going to do so. After all, in the past he has also given appreciation for, for example, an alderman who made statements about personal care. So I'd like to hear an appreciation from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u44	I understand that these questions should mainly be put by the SP municipal group in the municipality of Oss to the College of B and W of Oss. It doesn't suit me to give an appreciation on that right now. That discussion should, of course, take place at municipal level. Suppose a municipality develops certain care policies. Mr Van Gerven is now giving an example of this. Suppose carers find that policy inadequate or not good, or that they say that the municipality has not organised a good meeting. Then what's the right place to discuss that? That needs to be discussed with the alderman. He has to answer to the city council for that. I assume that the noises of the carers who did not think it was a good meeting will lead to a change of policy, a different kind of meeting or a different kind of care policy. That is exactly where the discussion needs to take place. I cannot judge whether the meeting was good or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u45	Mr Van Gerven may respond to this, but he must think for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u46	Yes, because I think this was my third term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u47	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u48	Lunch like that might cost a few thousand euros. For example, such a municipality receives €500,000 for that policy. Then I think: that's actually a disproportion. The money isn't earmarked. So such a municipality can do or leave anything with it. There's got to be a line somewhere, right? Where do we say this is crazy? Where's the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u49	I assume that, in such a case, if the members of the municipal council of the municipality of Oss would like to draw such a line, they will. I now understand that Mr Van Gerven is applying for a place in Oss City Council. I would regret that, because I am always looking forward to the debates I am allowed to have with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u50	This is a personal fact, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr Van Gerven said that there are signs that municipalities have little knowledge about, and have an insight into, care. I'd like to fight that image a little bit. I see that 87% of the municipalities involve carers in the development of family care policies. I also see that with the Mantelzorg Expertise Centre, municipalities develop all kinds of knowledge and practical tools to support municipalities in family care policies. I see that Mezzo has advisors available to help municipalities on the road and to provide advice on family care. Moreover, I see that the VNG organises practical days together with me, in which municipalities get all kinds of tips and exchange experiences in order to optimise household care policy. Those practice days are very well attended. This will not be optimal yet and municipalities can never have enough knowledge about family care and volunteering. I have just said that family care and volunteering are becoming an essential part of society. You can, can and will not ignore it. I have the impression that this is developing, that there are undoubtedly things that can be improved, but that municipalities are now paying a great deal of attention to family care policy. Mr Van Gerven also asked me how municipalities deal with respite care, because Mezzo received a doubling of the number of reports on problems in the second quarter. Yeah, that's right. In the first quarter there were 21 callers and in the second quarter of 2015 there were 46. Yeah, that's a double. However, I do not think that this is such a worrying figure that it would make me think that it would indicate that municipalities do not handle grace care properly. Once again, points can be improved. We'll keep an eye on that. Municipalities must ensure that they buy enough daily spending and respite care. If it appears that there has not been sufficient purchases, municipalities are obliged to do so, because they have to provide adequate facilities. Mrs Bergkamp gave a positive example of the municipality of Amsterdam. I agree with her that we must ensure that this type of good example is widely disseminated. Under the heading "new practice" I am talking to professionals, clients, carers and healthcare providers in the municipalities to collect and disseminate good examples. They are already being distributed through the website, but I am talking to the parties to see if we can do that much more actively, almost aggressively, so that everyone can see what good examples are there. I have already mentioned the cooperation between carers and professionals in the projects I mentioned. This also applies to the regulatory burden in the care sector. Mrs Keijzer pointed that out and rightly so. It is a very important point of action in the coming period, including for my part. Mrs Bergkamp, together with Mr Van Dijk, has tabled a motion to deal with the regulatory burden in the care sector. We will put this issue high on the agenda. I'm a little hesitant about the question of the difference between pgbs and care. In the case of pgbs, it is a question of which indicated care has been determined by the municipality, the health insurance company or the healthcare office. This care can then be obtained in the form of a pgb. This is different from care and support that are not covered by the legislation. Sometimes you can't cut these two with scissors. That is why we said in the pgb debate that perhaps we should look at this distinction and whether it is always clear enough. I think that Mrs Bergkamp is calling on me to give more attention to this point when drawing up the future plans for the pgbs. I will be happy to return to that when we develop our discussion on the pgbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u52	How will the Secretary of State come back to this? I notice that many municipalities struggle with it. Sometimes they say it's their own strength: parents who often have a lot of care for a child don't get a pgb for that reason. This creates very nasty discussions between parents and the municipality. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u53	Well, let's clean it up. The first decision to be taken by the municipality, the healthcare office or the health insurance company is whether care is provided. There may be an indication or an appropriate provision should be made. That's established. Then you can get that care in the form of a pgb. So the discussion should not be about whether you get a pgb or not. The discussion should be about how much care you get or don't get. Then you're gonna talk about the shape. I think this is the purest way of approaching. If care is provided by family or relatives, you can get the discussion whether that care is in accordance with our laws, but we have objection and appeal procedures for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u54	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u55	That's a very nice treatise. Apparently, our laws in practice are unclear on this point. Can the Secretary of State discuss this through the VNG, so that there is clarity? What is clear to the Secretary of State and to us is not always clear to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u56	I'd be happy to say so. I am constantly talking to municipalities about how the implementation practice is developing. If this is a bottleneck, if Mrs Bergkamp says so, it will undoubtedly come forward, and I am very willing to discuss this with the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u57	How many questions do you have to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u58	Very little, I'm almost done. You time your questions very well. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether attention should be paid to the overload of carers even after the kitchen table. I very much endorse that. It is important that we not only look at this when we conduct the investigation. The situation can change and then the care and support needs to be adapted. The municipality can take the initiative, but it must, of course, also be open to requests from the caregiver, if that is the case. As far as the financial situation of carers is concerned, I have already said what is necessary. I have already announced that the VNG intends to focus on even better informing municipalities and carers about existing arrangements and possibilities, including financial tailor-made work, and to align them with Mezzo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u59	Can the Chamber also be informed about the outcome of this? I think it is useful to have an idea of the way in which VNG and Mezzo have talked about this, what the possibilities are and how it might be even more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u60	Shall I see if this can be taken into account in the next progress report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u61	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u62	We will. Mr Van der Staaij said that in the interplay between formal and informal concerns there may be uncertainty about the responsibilities. Soon there will be a handout. Mr Van der Staaij asked me if I could send it to the House of Representatives. As soon as the handout is ready, I will. That's my short answer. I come to Mrs Tanamal's questions. She pointed out that, in the case of overloads that can lead to derailed care, it is very good that carers themselves are particularly involved in shaping policy. That is a fair observation. I will see to it that carers themselves are involved in this. Mrs Tanamal further asked for reserved actions. I thought we'd talked about that before. Reserved acts are described in the BIG Act and may in principle only be carried out by self-employed persons. Often it is actions that pose a significant risk to the patient if they are carried out by others. Think of injecting, operating or anesthesia. These are, of course, the easy examples, but drug distribution and replacing an infusion are other examples. If actions are not carried out professionally or if there is an emergency, you have to pay extra attention. At the beginning of 2016, an update of the publication entitled Borders on informal care, by Vilans, will be published, which will include practical solutions in implementation practice in addition to the legal framework. I understand Mrs Tanamal's question in such a way that you can refer to the formal laws, but that practice is often unclear. That is why I think it is important that this publication should be published. As soon as it's there, I'll send it to the Chamber. I agree with Mrs Tanamal that Infocare is very important. We will send the results to all sectors: ggz, disabled people, home care, hospitals. It's not just about the contestants. If Mrs. Tanamal meets someone who is interested, she should let us know. There are also websites, but we will actively disseminate what Infozorg does, so that someone who wants to participate can also appeal to them. Mrs Tanamal pointed out that carers sometimes point out that ministries are opposing each other in policy. She asked me if I could respond to that. Of course it isn't. At least, you shouldn't. As the Chamber knows, I have undertaken to take on a coordinating role with regard to informal care. My view is that the departments are increasingly working together to ensure that an integrated policy is put in place. Where improvements are possible, they are being worked on. I will discuss again with my colleagues whether there are any bottlenecks. Then we can create an integrated policy. I will be in touch with my colleague from Social Affairs where we can improve coordination. I have the feeling that this is what Mrs Tanamal was referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mr. Chairman. Combining work and care affects almost everyone: the workers, the people who are cared for, the employers and also the government that can provide rules. Then, of course, it is a good balance. We see it in people with young children and in this debate especially in people who care for other people who are sick or needing help. I think it is very worthwhile to see how we can do this better, precisely because many people experience that it can be very difficult to combine it. We have heard compelling examples of this in the debate, including from the Members of Parliament themselves. We have achieved quite a lot in recent years in this respect. Think of the Law modernisation arrangements for leave and working hours. A number of types of leave have been extended, new types of leave have been applied and a number of practical obstacles have been removed. In this context, I believe that the extension of the target group for short-term and long-term care leave is particularly relevant. Those forms of care leave are no longer intended solely for the care of the partner, a parent or a child. Since 1 July 2015, it can also be about caring for other family members or people from the social environment, such as a neighbour, a good friend or girlfriend and so on. In the past, you could only get long-term care leave if someone was life-threateningly ill. Since 1 July 2015, this can also be done for the support of someone who is in need of help. It can be taken up for six times the weekly working time per year. So it can also be spread out and it can be used flexibly. On 1 January, the Working Flexible Act entered into force. That law was an initiative of CDA and GroenLinks. It provides that workers have a legal right to ask for adjustments to their working hours and their workplace. This is a support in the back of workers who want to combine their work obligations with care. Moreover, it complements the long-standing possibility of asking for the agreed working time to be reduced or increased. With the programme Werk&Mantelzorg that Mezzo and Qidos carry out on behalf of SZW and VWS, we try to raise awareness. Many MPs stressed the importance of employers being aware of the opportunities and the problems, and of workers being aware of the rights that exist, thus facilitating this heavy combination. However, I do not want to leave it with a list of the things we have done. The Chamber has stated that it thinks we should look at what else can be done, and I fully agree with that. You hear that also from people who get stuck despite the fact that a lot of good is already happening. That is one of the reasons why we have asked the ESC to draw up an opinion on working and living in the future. We have given the ESC the opportunity to interpret that question widely. What will change in the future in the combination of work and care and in the combination of work and life? The key question is: how can the use of existing possibilities be optimised? If you don't know that it's possible or if you don't even see yourself as a caregiver, then you may not know what rights are included. Another important question is: what will come to us in the next ten years? The labour market is changing. We're gonna age happily. In this context, the'sandwich' was discussed. I believe that Mrs Dik-Faber gave that example. Both parents and children must be taken care of. What does that mean? How can you react well to that? What can the government do and what can companies and people do to prepare themselves? I know many examples of organisations where this goes in a good way, where people are motivated and where absenteeism is lower and productivity higher. It is worth having a culture in your company where these things are negotiable and not taboo. This applies to men's businesses and women's businesses. I'm very interested in that advice. It would actually be there at the beginning of this year, but the ESC has announced that it will be completed later. I hope to know soon when it is expected to be concluded. I promised the Chamber that soon afterwards I would organise a meeting on work and care with everyone involved and to prepare a cabinet response. I hope that this will provide new ideas on how to do this better. I think this is also the answer to Mrs Voortman's question. So I don't have a date yet, but I also understand that the SER needs time to do this, because it's really about big questions. Of course it's "the sooner, the better." I can do it the other way around, but in the end we really hope that new ideas will emerge at the summit on labour and care. What are we going to do about awareness? That has been asked on a number of points. I explicitly asked the ESC to provide opportunities to optimise the existing arrangements and to promote their use. In addition to the things we're already doing, I hope this brings us original new ideas. Mrs Voortman asked whether research could be carried out into the impact on women's labour market position. The Emancipation Monitor shows every two years what happens at the level of combination of work and care. It monitors the use of time and the distribution between men and women in the context of family care. Labour market participation is measured. This will be discussed again in the 2016 monitor. Then you can observe an initial effect of decentralisation compared to the monitor of two years before. Of course, not all of this can be identified. So then you have to interpret that in a sensible way, but that data is looked at and I hope that we will be able to learn more about whether this decentralisation is having an effect and, if so, what effect. Mr Krol pointed out that many carers were also self-employed, who, of course, do not benefit from all workers' rights. They do not have the duties of employees either, but in this case it is important to realize that it is a growing group and that it is also important there to optimise the combination between work and care. That is why I have already agreed, in a general discussion in another committee, that this issue should be discussed at that summit on labour and care. I very much agree with Mr Krol's suggestion. That's what I want to do. All Dutch people are affected by this. So I'm curious to see what that will do and whether the government should do something special for that. Mrs Bergkamp asked what we are doing about the combination of work and care. I think I gave a brief summary of that. On request, we can deepen that further. Mr President, I see that you enjoy your present position so much that you would like to invite me to go into that in more detail, but I note that the Chamber is different in that regard. I would like to say one more thing about it. The Modernisation of leave and working time Act pays attention to this, in conjunction with the Sustainable Employability Programme, which has been running for some time. I like the term "sustainable employability." I still haven't found a better term for it. It reminds me of machines, but it's about people who can stay healthy and happy to do their job. There we pay extra attention to psychosocial workload. Then it's about work stress, intimidation, bullying at work and all that kind of stuff. It was said in the past that this was not the biggest problem. On the modern labour market, it is precisely because of this that many people fall. Carers are vulnerable to this subject. If you're already under a lot of pressure at home, it could be a drop in the bucket at work. You can't always see where the cause is of the fact that it's getting too much, but it's definitely a problem. Therefore, structural attention must be paid to this too. Do the companies have a good policy? Is work pressure negotiable at work and is there a good response to it? I also think that this is part of a good way of dealing with the combination of work and care. There are information campaigns on these new leave arrangements. Of course, we always measure what effect those campaigns have. We see that 47% of employees have been reached by these campaigns. That's a common percentage. 85% of them have also understood the message, who believes that the message has come across well. We also see that during that campaign the websites with information on these arrangements were very well visited. People have not only been alerted, but have apparently also started to see what it means to them and whether they are eligible for it. The effects of this often falter, but it is good that attention has been asked for, I think. Make those arrangements public, especially now that there are changes. That is what we must continue to do. I would like to wait for the ESC opinion to determine how we are going to proceed with this. Maybe we can do it in a smarter or more targeted way. But I certainly intend to pay attention to this after the publication of this ESC opinion, because I very much agree with the Chamber that people need to know what opportunities there are, because that can provide relief. Finally, I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's question as to whether an interdepartmental working group could be set up to look at these aspects. I get that thought. The cabinet will respond to the ESC opinion. Several departments and directors are involved in that meeting on work and care. I did not want to set up a working group for this, but I wanted to get the advice of the ESC first. That must then be looked at interdepartmentally. You will see that it affects Education, of course VWS and SZW and perhaps other departments as well. Finance has just been mentioned by some MPs, because of the tax regimes. Then I'll make sure that reaction is integral. That is a promise. If it is then necessary to set up a separate working group, then we can always do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u65	I thank the Minister for his response and his commitment, but for the sake of clarity I say the following. I referred to the IBO report on the position ofzzp'ers. I understood from the answer that thezzp'ers were linked to care care. That is, of course, a theoretical possibility, but my intention was that, similar to an IBO to the position ofzzp'ers, there would be a working group looking at the position of carers. So my question was: are we going to do what we did with thezzp'ers, again with carers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u66	Then I totally misunderstood the question. I apologize to Mrs Dik-Faber. I have not only misunderstood the question, but I have therefore not answered it properly. It seems more like a question for Martin van Rijn...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u67	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u68	... because as Secretary of State of the United States, he is the chief responsible for the wider family care issue. I'm pulling out of here!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u69	Can the Secretary of State now reply or will he return to it in the second term? I understand he can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u70	Mr. Chairman. It should be a little clearer what the task of such a working group should be. I would point out that we have already taken a number of different steps. We have spoken before about the intentions surrounding "enhancing, illuminating, connecting." For us, this has led to an agenda for informal care, which is now being worked out. I have already said in my speech that we are moving from the national agenda to the local equipment. I think it would be wise to look at what is national practice and to gather the good examples, the best practices, and see what the experiences are. On that basis, we can see if there is any reason to think again. I do not reject it, but I think it would be a good time for that agenda and the agreements that have been made to do their job. In the progress reports, we can then look at how it will land and then look at whether there is a need for further discussions, work visits or investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u71	Let's move on to the second term. The second-term contribution should really be limited to making a statement or submitting a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u72	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for the comprehensive answers and their words. I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the VNG, to consider how to optimise the provision of information on care support and to inform the Chamber within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Voortman, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Keijzer and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u73	The Secretary of State said he wanted to consult with the VNG on the bottlenecks it experiences in shaping the household care policy. I welcome that, but I would like to go a little further by looking at whether it is possible to identify who is actually a caregiver. For example, municipalities know better who to support, which of course is bound by criteria. That is why I have tabled the next motion, which was made much clearer at first. I adapted her to meet the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, partner helpers are increasingly overburdened;]] [[Whereas these are often older people with a partner living at home and their number may increase further due to the government's longer-stay policy;]] [[Whereas the Future Agenda on Informal Care and Support makes a series of recommendations to support elderly carers;]] [[calls on the Government to reiterate to all parties concerned the importance of specific support for the elderly caregiver,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u74	Finally, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u75	You must hurry, Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u76	The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas, according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, partner helpers are increasingly overburdened; whereas these are often elderly with a home living... I'm really double-crazed right now. Excuse me, Madam President, but I brought a wrong motion to the Chair. Can I get the right one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u77	This can happen. I see that colleagues have no objection to it. From your body language, I understand you can't find the motion. You could also have borrowed a motion from Mr Van Gerven, as he often has a lot of them! I call Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u78	Mr. Chairman. What a hypocritical debate! Ever-changing majorities here in the Lower House have helped this Secretary of State in the biggest post-war austerity operation that our country has known in terms of domestic aid, nursing, care, daily spending, closing the nursing homes. These megalomaniac cuts, this megalomaniac care has been added to the shoulders of the already overburdened carers. And now everyone's worried? The Chamber is simply responsible! I find it truly bewildering that no one puts their hands in their own bosom! I think we have to wait and see what further research into the position of the caregiver can tell us, but I assume that this position has become very vulnerable, also in view of a completely empty gallery. These people are so overburdened that they are not feared or even visiting The Hague anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u79	Mr. Chairman. I indicated in my first term that I am still thinking about improving the position of carers. As an example, I have mentioned that the position of the caregiver is better anchored in the Wmo. During the treatment of the Wmo, I have already made proposals. Even though you don't know how to find a majority, you still have to hang in there, and I will. The proposal to anchor the caretaker's position in the Wmo will certainly come to this Chamber at another time, so that I can ask this Chamber to cash it in as well. If a caretaker states in a reasonable manner that he cannot be taxed anymore, a municipality should not ignore it. I have also heard too often that it is refused if someone who needs care wants to bring their own family member as a caregiver. That is why I have prepared the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Wmo states that caregivers should be able to use independent customer support;]] [[Whereas there are municipalities that state that only one person may be present next to the care provider himself at the kitchen table conversation;]] [[noting that a caregiver may need both independent customer support and his/her caregiver during the kitchen table interview;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the VNG and local authorities on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u80	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas decentralisation has helped to increase the use of family care and may have an impact on women's labour market position and economic independence;]] [[Whereas the first examination of the consequences of decentralisation for this will only start in the course of this year and therefore results may not be available until 2017;]] [[considers that this information should be available earlier in order, if necessary, to be kept up to date;]] [[calls on the Government to launch the examination of the impact of decentralisation on the care of women and the labour market position of women as soon as possible and to inform the Chamber of the first results by 1 June 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas five out of six carers combine family care with paid employment;]] [[Whereas leave arrangements and other arrangements such as, for example, the Law on flexible working can facilitate the combination of paid employment and family care;]] [[Whereas two thirds of the carers employed are not referred to these schemes by their employer and that only 72% of carers are aware of the existence of these schemes;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to improve the awareness of work and family care schemes and to encourage companies to conduct care-conscious personnel policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-47]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u81	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both directors for the answer. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is essential for carers to receive good support to carry out their duties;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[Whereas the crisis service is not suitable for non-acute questions from carers, but often the only place where they can go outside of office hours;]] [[believes that carers have an important place in society and are invaluable;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with Mezzo and the VNG, to examine whether carers can contact an organisation for practical advice, questions and support 24 hours a day, and to inform the Court in the next progress report on informal care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u82	I was very pleased with the Minister's commitment to an inter-departmental look at the SER report which further identifies the situation of workers and the provision of care services. I hope that commitment will be further fulfilled. I still have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the family carers are growing in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that several reports show that the task of carers is complex and that there are bottlenecks in many different policy areas that carers encounter;]] [[Considering that several measures are taken by the Ministry of Social Security and the Ministry of VWS to support and facilitate carers;]] [[calls on the government to form an inter-departmental working group to examine the ways in which family-friendly policies can be developed and to look at the breadth of the task performed by carers, the position they have in society and the problems they face;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions for resolutions, because I am taking care of the family in the context of the collective relations. We're gonna start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers and care professionals are not always properly regulated;]] [[considers that it is necessary for carers to be able to transfer care from time to time in order to avoid overload;]] [[calls on the Government to make agreements with all interested parties, municipalities, health care providers and health insurance providers so that carers and healthcare professionals can apply for on-call respite care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities are responsible for providing financial or in-nature valuation to carers;]] [[noting that many carers incur high costs for caring for their neighbors;]] [[calls on the government to pay the budget to municipalities for family care and to require municipalities to provide family carers with a financial household compliment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the important work of carers deserves appreciation and support;]] [[Whereas this can only be done if it is known who is a caregiver;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the VNG and Mezzo, to examine whether and how a registration of carers can be organised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-51]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-52]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u84	One remark by the Secretary of State surprised me, or rather not. He said: care changes. But, Secretary of State, just acknowledge that this means cutting back on care, at the expense of the caregiver. Be honest, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u85	I would also like to make that appeal to Mr Van Gerven. At the moment, on Twitter and other social media of the SP, there is another hate story about proposals from the SP that the PVV would not have supported. But, of course, we cannot support uncovered cheques. At least I'll never do that. I will never turn my voter in front of a wheel by supporting motions that are simply uncovered cheques. That is why I ask Mr Van Gerven: where are your cover? Maybe I can vote in favour sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u86	I have no idea what Mr Agema is talking about. Maybe she can tell us what motion this is about. That's unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u87	You want a patronage compliment, don't you? That costs money, doesn't it, Mr. Van Gerven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u88	Ah, is that what you mean? Listen, you need to read this motion right away. 100 million have been transferred to the municipalities. A paternity compliment can be paid for that. We propose that this money be earmarked and that it be given to the carers. That was also the original intention of the creator of the household compliment, Mr Van der Vlies. At least that is spent in a useful way. I think that's a good cover, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u89	No, Mrs. Agema, we're not going through with that. Mr. Van Gerven, please give me shorter answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u90	A motion had just been tabled which Mr Krol had wished to table, but which he had forgot for a moment. I actually wanted to put my question to Mr Krol, but that is difficult now, so I will now put it to Mr Van Gerven. After all, he has tabled the motion and perhaps he can answer the question. My question is about a kind of compulsory registration of carers, at least in my opinion. In any case, a kind of national approach should be given to this. In my view, it is important for many carers that they want to be recognised as a caregiver and that if they do not, they can simply provide help as they wish. How exactly am I supposed to read this motion? Is it intended that every caregiver must register with every municipality in the Netherlands? Or is it just meant to gain more insight into who exactly is a caregiver? If so, this is already done by the municipalities and I think this motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u91	A brief answer, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u92	The motion is not superfluous. It is intended to map out what we should mean by 'coach carers'. There is a lot of discussion about who is and who is not a caregiver, and what criteria should be used. We have 393 municipalities. Let them sit around the table to get some clarity about the criteria on which you can speak of 'coach carers'. In this way we get a good definition and people can derive certain expectations and rights from it. That's quite another thing than a registration obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u93	I'm really wondering why. I think it is clear in the law when someone can claim this under leave arrangements. You feel like a caretaker or you may not feel like a caregiver. But why does the SP want this? Why do there have to be criteria to determine whether or not you are a caregiver? Let us leave that in the Netherlands to the people themselves, please! I don't understand what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u94	We propose this because it is a problem, because it is not equally clear everywhere. It's as simple as that. We also exchanged this during the debate. That has already come to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u95	I see that a number of spokesmen do not want to make use of their second-term speaking time. I call Mrs Tanamal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that caregivers should receive as much support as possible in combining their household care responsibilities with paid employment and daily regular life tasks;]] [[noting that carers from different fields are confronted with policies and measures that affect the way and extent to which they can carry out their household care tasks, including care, social affairs and finance;]] [[calls on the Government, preferably before the summer, to present an integrated vision of family care involving all areas of life and to ensure that this vision is drawn up jointly with relevant departments (Finance, Social Affairs and Employment and Health, Welfare and Sport);]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Tanamal and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u97	Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 44 the government is invited to consider how to optimise the provision of information on family care support. We have already discussed the importance of this in the debate. There's a number of handouts coming up. I've already mentioned the respite hand. I would also like to refer to the Anbo's Mantelzorgguide. So much is happening already. However, this information is extremely important. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 45 concerns the question of whether all parties can once again be reminded of the importance of specific support for the elderly caregiver. We have already discussed the importance of this in the debate. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 46 the government is invited to consult with the VNG to draw the attention of municipalities to the fact that, in addition to independent customer support, a caregiver may also be present at the kitchen table. I'm a little in my stomach with that motion, not because I don't like the motion, but because this is actually standing policy. It's been arranged that support can take place. The law says you're writing to the caretaker for the interview. I would like to suggest to the applicant that the motion be withdrawn, given that it is or should be a policy in progress. If that is not the case, I would, of course, point out to the congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u98	The latter seems to me to be 'judge Chamber', because that is what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u99	Yeah, but it's standing policy. I'm trying to narrow it down a little bit. I make a promise that if a municipality does not comply with it, I will address that municipality at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u100	I'm driving past Monnickendam again tonight. There they have equal monks and equal hoods. Also for the motions on the documents Nos. 44 and 45, of course, it is part of standing policy. I assume the Secretary of State loves the 50PLUS group as much as the CDA. At least that's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u101	It is true that all the fractions are written in the palm of my hand. However, it may be good to point out to the Chamber when something is actually already covered by the law. Do I object to the motion? No, but I would like to point out that it is already a policy in existence. In the Voortman motion in part No. 47 the government is asked to inform the Chamber by 1 June 2016 at the latest of the examination of the impact of decentralisation on the care of women and the labour market position of women. I object to the deadline. I said I would do more research in 2016. If we now need to be informed about the first results in June 2016, we need to look at what is going on around now. Then you're actually measuring what happened in the transition year 2015. So I would really like to insist that the SCP conducts further research in 2016. Then we have some time to see what the effects are. In view of the time limit, I'd advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 48 is about measures for the combination of work and family care. I assume that Mr Asscher will deal with it. In the motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 49 the government is asked to examine whether carers can contact a support organisation 24 hours a day. I have already indicated in the debate that there is an incredible amount of support. I don't think we should be picking up nationally what can be better locally. Let us at most see if we can make more use of the existing line with Sensor and Korrelia. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 50 the government is invited to form a national working group. I would like to try to combine that motion with the motion tabled by Mrs Tanamal. We have decentralised policies to municipalities. Municipalities should now be given the opportunity to develop family care policies, to assess their position, to identify the bottlenecks they face and, if necessary, to address them. A national working group to make care-friendly policies would be at odds with this. I think I recall that the debate with my colleague in Social Affairs has already changed whether I can develop a somewhat broader vision of the family care policy. I shall come back to that later on in the explanation of Mrs Tanamal's motion. I would not be in favour of forming an inter-departmental working group now, but rather of monitoring the development of family care policy and, if necessary, of continuing it in consultation with the municipalities. However, I would not be in favour of an inter-departmental working group right now. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u102	I'll come back to the motion on part No. 49. My group believes it is very important to map out whether carers can go anywhere 24 hours a day. This motion does not state that this is being shaped nationwide. It doesn't say it has to be local either. It merely says: "Consultation now with Mezzo and the VNG on what is happening at the moment." Are there any holes? If the result of these conversations is that it is not necessary because enough is already happening, for example because Sensor is the place where carers can go. I ask the Secretary of State to include this in the progress report. I'm getting signals from the country right now that there's a bottleneck here. I just really want that to be discussed. I'd like a feedback from that. There's nothing in it about local or national policy yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u103	Quite precisely: the questioning and the operative part assume that there is a need to organise a 24-hour accessibility for non-acute questions. It is just too much for me to say that such a provision of accessibility is also necessary for non-acute questions 24 hours a day and how they should be organised. That's two steps too far for me. Should we not first look at whether there is a need for such a provision, rather than already looking at how it should be organised? That's why I'm sticking to my judgment. The motion in part No. Fifty I'd just treated. In the Van Gerven motion to item No. 51 I am asked to make agreements with all the parties involved so that carers can apply for on-call recess care. Grace care is something for local parties. The law offers plenty of room for that. There is no reason to set up separate arrangements with all the parties concerned, so that there can be a request for grace care, as this is part of the appropriate facilities that the municipality is required to provide, if grace care is appropriate support. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion. In the Van Gerven motion to item No. 52 we are invited to pay the budget to municipalities for family care and to require municipalities to provide care providers with a financial household compliment. We have discussed this extensively in all the debates. We have deliberately given the municipalities the freedom to define their own policies locally. That's why I'd like to discourage that motion. Then we have the motion-Van Gerven/Krol on piece number. 53, on the registration of carers. I'm gonna have to see what that means. We are asked to examine, in cooperation with the VNG and Mezzo, whether and how a registration of carers can be developed. This is based on the premise that this is necessary to achieve a number of things. I have made the offer to Mr Krol that I am going to discuss with the UNG what bottlenecks the UNG encounters in shaping care policy. If it turns out to be a bottleneck that it is not easy to register properly or if registration is seen as a problem that we should do something about, then that should be the primary point of view. Perhaps Mr Krol could withdraw that motion, given my commitment that I would like to discuss with the VNG whether this is a bottleneck and if so, what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u104	The first signatory to the motion is Mr Van Gerven, but I now see Mr Krol walking towards the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u105	In the context of volunteering, a cooperation has been established, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u106	Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u107	In order to make it easier for the Secretary of State, I specifically added the word "or" to the operative part, i.e. "to examine whether and in what way."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u108	Yes. Then I'll stick to my promise. Maybe I can tempt you to hold the motion until I have had my conversation with the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u109	Mr Van Gerven, it is unusual for both signatories to intervene, but on a very rare occasion I will allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u110	I would just like to say that we are holding the motion, given the Secretary of State's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u111	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motion (30169, No. 53). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u112	Then the Tanamal/Christmas motion in part No. 54, in which we are asked to come up with an integrated vision of family care across all areas of life. Maybe the performer would like to help me out. I would also like to say that in the debate with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs there was already talk of an integrated vision of family care, which also covered all areas of life. Frankly, I do not know exactly what the state of play of her commitment is on this point. Perhaps the petitioners can hold the motion until the Secretary of State for Social Affairs has indicated in her letter how she intends to deal with it. I would like to ask my colleague what the precise timing of her proposal will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u113	Can you indicate what deadline that would be possible? Then I look at Mrs Tanamal, asking if she wishes to continue the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u114	That must be possible quite quickly, at least that is what I'm assuming. That could happen next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u115	At the request of Mrs Tanamal, I propose her motion (30169, No. 54). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 48 the government is invited to take measures to raise awareness of the arrangements. I think I promised that in the first term too. I do not know what the motion means now, unless the motion would imply that it should be taken before the ESC opinion is available. In that case, I would advise against the motion. Otherwise, I'm curious to hear what she's adding. I am anxious to look at the experience in this company after the sharp debate between Mrs Keijzer and Mr Van Rijn or here motions that add nothing in themselves lead to a judgment Chamber or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u117	I have heard the Minister say that he wants to wait for the ESC opinion and then take action. When you already know that you want to take these measures, do you have to wait for the SER advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u118	We have asked the ESC to advise us on measures that we could take that are more effective than the measures we have already taken. That is why we want to wait for that. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u119	Then I'll put her to the vote. At the moment, two thirds of the people who provide and work care are not informed by their employer. I think that is a major problem and I do not think that we should wait for the ESC opinion to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u120	We're not gonna wait. We have already carried out an information campaign and I intend to repeat it. The ESC advises us on how to make it even more effective than the previous campaign, which has reached more than 40% of employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-10.u121	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament, the staff and the people who may have followed this debate on the Internet.
