ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, a message was published in NRC entitled "A 17 grand screw." Dear Minister, if I go to the bike maker, it is precisely on the bill to see what costs have been incurred for what operation. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the care sector. In the piece we read how Mrs Ten Bokkel Huinink found out that placing a screw behind her ear for a hearing aid cost as much as €16,943,36. She wanted to know how that amount was made. At first, the hospital said it was because of the anesthesia. Turns out that wasn't right. Then it was said that the hearing aid cost €5,000. However, the bill for this has yet to come. Eventually, the hospital said, "We're not obliged to give specifications." What does the Minister think of this course of action? Does it happen more often that non-patient care is charged? How is it that this treatment in the hospital in Enschede costs €17,000 while the average price for this treatment is €10,000 less? That's a huge difference, isn't it? The underlying problem is, of course, wider. There is too much fog around the price structure of care treatments. The dbc system aims to facilitate good quality, insightful and affordable care. Now, in some cases, a whole treatment pathway is charged while only a small part of the treatment has been performed. Patients don't know what and what to pay for. It seems to be thought that the insurer will pay after all. How can this perverse incentive, which means that more costs are charged, be removed from the system? Another problem is that hospitals are not transparent about their tariffs. How are we going to ensure that hospitals disclose the costs of what treatment is involved, so that this can lead to a debate in which it becomes clear why hospital A is asking for one treatment and hospital B is asking for another? Is the Minister prepared to encourage hospitals to make their tariffs public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I understand that Mrs Ineke ten Bokkel Huinink was shocked by this and started researching it. It shows her great commitment to care and its affordability. It is a hearing aid that must be attached to the bone with a screw. That's why she was in the hospital. Otherwise, people might wonder why she went to the hospital. It has received an account of almost €17,000. The cost of the screw was €1,100. We have discussed it very often in the House of Representatives: it is a misunderstanding that care is being worked with cost prices. We come from a system of budgets. Every hospital got a budget. That wasn't substantiated by what everything cost. You just got a budget, and that's why you had to do it. A new system was introduced in 2006: the diagnostic treatment combinations as a vehicle to pay. Those were still fictitious prices. They had no consequences for the funding of a hospital. It was only in 2012 that the big step was taken that 70% of everything we do in healthcare has free prices. There may be a negotiation between insurer and hospital. Now the dbc is a special-oriented vehicle. It is about the diagnosis and treatment in combination and not about the cost. In practice, the budgets are still being counted around. Not what it costs, what human capacity requires and perhaps something extra to reinvest are the guiding principles, but it is allocated to the budget. We did that first with 48,000 diagnostic treatment combinations. We've now switched to 4,800 DOTs. This bundling means that there have been more uneven things thrown into one basket. These are cheap and expensive things and they charge an average price for a patient. So if someone gets a treatment that's cheap, the insurer pays more for it. For someone who gets a complex treatment, less is paid. However, there is a development towards working at cost. Consumer pressure through its own risk is a cause of this. Moreover, it appeared that the newcomers to health care could indicate the cost. Those newcomers could therefore make an offer to the insurer which was much lower than the average basket price the hospitals could offer. In 2012 I was standing here on the emergency room on the occasion of the "ear meergate," as it was called. When it turned out that there was an average price calculated that cost people their own risk. It's not nothing, if you've lost €385 in one go. The first step that has been taken is that there things are linked much more to what they cost. Four product prices have been made: inexpensive, below average, just above average and expensive. You get much more of a relationship between the price and what happened. By the way, you shouldn't have ear polish removed on the emergency room, because that's not what it's for. The second development we see is that CZ has published a list up to €885: the amount of the mandatory own risk and the voluntary own risk added together. Making these prices public will result in a rise in costs and thus in a much more precise approach. It's important to go through with this, but it's complex. As it happens, there has been an expert meeting today with the field at the Ministry on the transparency of hospital costs. That will always have to be gradual. After all, we have already said here that we should not let these hospitals go into new systems with shocks every time. We need to step up this transparency step by step. I will offer the House of Representatives what has been discussed today this autumn in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	I've asked a number of questions. I've asked what the Minister thinks about the way things are going at the hospital in Enschede. We're dealing with a lady who wanted to find out why treatment cost so much. She was first told a number of excuses and then she was told: we are not obliged to regulate that specification. Another question I have asked is whether it is more common for non-health care to be charged. Surely the intention of the DBC system was once to arrange good care for the best price for consumers? That doesn't seem to happen here. If a hospital charges €17,000, which is paid by the health insurance company, this will of course eventually be passed on to that patient, who is insured. I would like answers from the Minister to these questions. I would specifically like to respond to this case, but also to the question of what we are doing about these dbc tariffs and whether the Minister is going to encourage hospitals to make their tariffs public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	We agreed in the Chamber some time ago that if an insured person wants to know whether or not what has been charged, he should contact his insurer. Every insurer will agree a different price with a hospital. A hospital doesn't have one price he's negotiated with everyone. A hospital will charge an insurer who has 10,000 patients with him a lower price than an insurer who has 3 patients. I have said many times in the Chamber: if you want to know if an account is correct, ask your insurer. He should be able to check that out for someone and help him. The insurer is also obliged to provide information about this. I very much welcome the publication of what is paid for care. CZ started that. There has been a lot of criticism, including from the hospitals. However, I think it is the only way to actually inform patients properly. This is a first step, the rates up to €885. I'm not saying it's a first step for nothing. I assume that there will be several steps. I understand you can't do it all at once. Otherwise, we haven't been working on this for that long. I want to change the system slowly but surely. So not like we've done with the DOT, with years of all financial statements miserable that we've had on our roof. After all, we do not want hospitals to fall down if we change the system. Gradually, I want to change the system so that it becomes more sensitive to what is being delivered and to the care gravity that is being delivered. So yes, the system is far from ideal and needs strong improvement, but we need to do it carefully and gradually. Otherwise, we're gonna drive the hospital field crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	Firstly, the Minister says that Mrs. Ten Bokkel Huinink should go to the insurer, but the insurer is just sending her back to the hospital. If the Minister says she shouldn't have gone to the hospital, I wonder what she thinks about Mrs. Ten Bokkel Huinink being sent back and forth between the health insurance provider and the hospital. Did the health insurance company do the wrong thing here? Secondly, the Minister cites the list of CZ when it comes to the transparency of tariffs. However, why are hospitals now so reluctant to provide this transparency? What does the Minister do about it? It may be that hospitals are going crazy about this, but it's about numbers that hospitals just already have. The only thing they have to do and what people like Mrs Ten Bokkel-Huinink are asking is to make those tariffs public so that we can see them all and we can also question why one hospital is asking so much more than the other. It's not that weird, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	I think this action is very much appreciated. That's what I started my answer to. It is not a question of: I sit back and it is paid anyway. No, it's someone who's very involved in what it all costs and how we can manage it together. Should the insurance company have sent in? No, that's the insurer's fault. We agreed that the insurer should provide information on what he's paying on behalf of that lady for that treatment. That's where she must be. What do I think of the unwillingness of the hospitals? The hospitals see all kinds of information that has little relation to the cost. I'm running budgets. There is, of course, the whole problem, namely that a hospital itself probably cannot indicate what the cost is either. It has negotiated with the health insurance company, and that is taken back to a budget. It's so flat in practice. What we expect from the system cannot deliver the system now. We've known that for a while. That is why we have often exchanged views on how we can gradually move towards a system that it can deliver. I think we should step by step towards a different funding system. This system can't deliver that. We can't get rid of it in one blow, but we can step-by-step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	Then Mrs. Bouwmeester.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	Just in the trap! I hear the Minister saying that we've been talking about this for four years and that it's actually just a mess. We don't know what the price is and then we don't know what the treatment costs. That could cost the patient his whole personal risk. There is no proper information, but the Minister is right to say that there is one health insurance company that does make the prices public. The Minister appreciates that, and we appreciate that. How is it going to use its system responsibility to ensure that all health insurance companies are behind their insured and patients and provide that service and public access right away? Then the NRC journalist doesn't have to write a weekly column, because then the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u9	I distance myself from the fact that it's a mess. Politics has introduced a system and that is a complex system. You might wonder if this was the best system there was. There was a good international system, but we did not introduce it at the time because we did not want a good system but an excellent system. That turned out to be all the complexity. Now we need to bring that very complex system back to real insight into what it costs and not tie it to all kinds of other goals that we wanted to set when it was introduced. That's been a much too hard idea. We have to deal with the system that exists. We made it simpler, because we wanted from 48,000 combinations to 4,800 combinations. That only makes the range wider. It also means that we have to acknowledge and communicate that we do not pay at cost but on the allocation of budgets. That is a difficult message, but according to Mrs Bouwmeester there is light at the end of the tunnel, because the newcomers show that they can do it. That's pressure, and you can see that. Consumers are asking for it. That's pressure, and you can see that. That's what CZ does. I think that's very good. I think that other insurers should follow that example...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-11-tweedekamer-4.u11	...and so stand behind their patients, as Mrs Bouwmeester said. They must provide insight and so I would like to say: follow this example.
