ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister. We now come to a special moment, namely the maiden speech by one of our colleagues, Mr Van der Ree of the VVD Group. As you know, it is customary in the Chamber not to interrupt during a maiden speech. I'll hold you to that. After Mr Van der Ree's speech, I will briefly suspend the sitting to allow you to congratulate him, and I have the privilege of being the first to do so. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van der Ree of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today, for the first time, I can contribute to a plenary debate in this House. Yesterday I did that in the Amsterdam city council for the last time. For more than fourteen years I have been active in the local politics of Amsterdam, first as a district council member and later as a council member. I spoke about living, building, land affairs and spatial planning. Where the history of the Binnenhof dates back to the thirteenth century, when the graves of Holland built their hunting house here on a dune plateau, the history of the location of the Amsterdam city hall is more recent but also more laden. Fleaenburg, where the town hall now stands, was already part of the Amsterdam Jewish neighbourhood in the seventeenth century. After the war all buildings were demolished and disappeared three streets: Lange Houtstraat, Korte Houtstraat and Zwanenburgstraat. But there's an agreement. The Binnenhof was once bordered by a double moat. The remaining gates were adjacent to drawbridges. Of the moat muffled in 1861, only the small piece is left between the Tower of the Prime Minister and the Mauritshuis. Looking from the walkways behind the plenary room to the Hofplaats, you can still see in the pavement the circumference in brass of the Spuipoort that once stood at the moat. The city hall of Amsterdam is also located on a former island, the island of Vloerenburg. After the dampening of the Leprozengracht and the Houtgracht in 1882, Fleaenburg was no longer an island and the Waterlooplein that we still know. When I walked out of Amsterdam City Hall yesterday, I first saw the statue of Baruch Spinoza, near the place where he was born in 1632. Spinoza is one of the most important thinkers our country has ever produced. He was committed to democracy and freedom of expression. On the pedestal of his statue is still very beautiful "The purpose of the state is freedom," as a summary of his philosophy Spinoza wrote and spoke in the seventeenth century about freedom. That was certainly not appreciated by everyone at the time. He was expelled from the Jewish community of Amsterdam and his books were banned for a long time, but his message is now perhaps more topical than ever. "In a free democracy, freedom of expression is the counterpower against anyone who wants to restrict our freedom." Halbe Zijlstra said this last week in his contribution to the General Political Reviews. Liberals are firmly convinced that a strong society starts with free and independent people and free entrepreneurship. We are faced with a small but also powerful government, which is not there to regulate everyone's happiness beyond the front door, but which creates the conditions that allow everyone to get the best out of themselves. That was the most important motivation for me to ever become politically active. As a social geographer, I love maps and atlases. In my office for more than ten years hung the lease card of the municipality of Amsterdam, on which 80% of the territory of the municipality was indicated in red as land for the lease. That card was not only there because I was a spokesperson, but above all to make sure every day how much the influence of a government can be. Mr. Chairman. It is particularly honorable to be here as a representative of the people and to speak on a very relevant social subject such as education. We are talking today about the Education and Vocational Training Act. This law has been in force since 1996. Since then, secondary vocational education schools have been called regional education centres, i.e. 'roc's'. Her Excellency the Minister proposes to amend this law on a number of points. We see the proposals on the establishment of complaints law and the reduction of sanctions as clear improvements. We need to be able to deal with poor education quickly and abuses must be brought to light quickly. However, in the section on Diploma Recognition for non-cost institutions, we see a more uneven playing field between funded and non-costed institutions. That's not good for the student, at least as far as we're concerned. It benefits from a diverse and robust offer. When we talk about non-cost education, we talk about more than 90 institutions in the Netherlands with 34,000 students. That is 7% of the total number of MBO students in the Netherlands. We are talking about institutions such as LOI, NCOI and Schoevers, but also about the many business schools; educational institutions close to the labour market and able to respond flexibly to them. The VVD pleads, as I indicated, for a more level playing field. Absolutely right we won't get it with this bill. This could include the introduction of an accreditation system for MBO, as we already have for HBO. By accreditation we mean: not a national curriculum but the possibility of giving regional content to the training in consultation with the regional business community. For the VVD accreditation in the mbo remains definitely a dot on the horizon. In the present legislative proposal, the recognition of training in non-cost educational establishments will lapse after the training has not taken place for one year. The follow-up, the re-application of an approval, is not a sinecure. Moreover, the temporary suspension of training is not surprising at all in a situation where labour market demand is central. The Minister may then say that this will also lapse in the case of funded training if there are no students enrolled. I would remind her that funded educational institutions do not have to apply for recognition at all. That is why we propose, in each amendment, that the institution be given the opportunity to pause for three years with training before the recognition expires. In this way, we will create a more level playing field and we will also respond to the Minister's concerns. The present legislative proposal also introduces the possibility of granting recognition for a year and a half when another training from the same institution has received a warning from the Education Inspectorate in the previous three years. However, this condition applies only to non-cost education. As far as we are concerned, a warning only refers to the training for which the warning has been given and not necessarily to any other training offered by the institution. We therefore propose, for each amendment, that a level playing field be introduced in this respect between non-costed and funded education. Both amendments are also tabled by my colleague Mr Rog of the CDA. Private educational providers are incredibly important for a wide range of educational offerings. In addition, they stimulate innovation and stimulate funded institutions to take a step further. The VVD is in favour of offering as wide a range of labour market-relevant training as possible, so that workers can also be trained or trained. Private educational providers play an important role here. Let us cherish them, and above all not be unnecessarily troubling them. I'm closing up. Yesterday was my last day as a member of the city council of Amsterdam. In this house I hope to be able to contribute to a more beautiful Netherlands, a Netherlands where a future Spinoza can grow up in safety and with good education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u3	It was special to hear Spinoza come by again. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that we can all congratulate Mr Van der Ree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u4	We shall continue with Mr Rog's contribution from the CDA. The interrupt microphone is back on, but you don't have to interrupt!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me welcome from this place the highly noble Mr Van der Ree in our midst and thank him for his beautiful maiden speech. I look forward to a good partnership. As you have already heard from Mr Van der Ree, this good cooperation was established as far as I am concerned even before he made his maiden speech here. We have held extensive written consultations with the Minister on various aspects of this proposal on quality aspects in vocational education. On one point, the right of complaint, we are convinced by the Minister's answers. I should like to touch briefly on three points. The last two lead to the amendments I tabled with Mr Van der Ree. We were convinced of the right to complain, but this does not apply to the right to advise on the school fees scheme. The Minister wishes to promote greater influence on the broad lines of school cost policy so that they do not become too high. Does this not give rise to a duplication in the involvement of the participants in school costs? Surely this can already be influenced by the Council of Participants within the Education Agreement? And the competent authority can ignore the proposed advisory right, can't it? In the end, will no expectations be raised among students that cannot be met? What effects does the Minister expect of her proposal? I have co-signed an amendment by Mr Bishop on this point. The other two points have led to amendments with the VVD. The first is to shorten the period of recognition of non-costed training. We have already asked questions about this in writing. The CDA considers this part of the law disproportionate. In the debate on the complete cycle requirement, which took place in this house yesterday, the Minister still called for the desired level playing field between private and publicly funded training courses, she is now adversely affecting private providers. We do not see any decisive arguments for treating private education differently from publicly funded education. That is what the Minister is doing with this law: only private providers who have received a warning up to three years ago will be able to obtain a provisional recognition of one and a half years. If there are problems with existing training, could they simply be solved within the existing supervisory framework? I come to my final point. The CDA also does not want the recognition of training to lapse if it is not offered for one year. We do not want that for public education, but we do not want it for private education. This legislative proposal leads to unnecessary inequality and many administrative burdens, and reduces the flexibility of supply. If this piece of legislation were to be implemented, it would also mean that training would be less able to respond to labour market developments. Continuing training solely and exclusively to avoid hassle, while training students into unemployment is not something this minister can want on her conscience. I would like to put these three points to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr Rog rightly refers to a more level playing field, but, for example, uncosted education is not covered by the macro-efficiency requirements. For example, this bill regulates an independent complaints committee. Does Mr Rog think that this part of the right to complain should also apply to uncosted education in order to achieve that level playing field?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u7	I do not know exactly what Mr Mohandis is referring to. Is he working on his own amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u8	I'll make it a little more concrete. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijk, but it is more about the discussion I want to have with Mr Rog on the level playing field between paid and unpaid. If we want a level playing field to be created from the perspective of uncosted education, then we must also dare to reason the other way around. If, for example, we introduce a right of complaint in funded education, should that not also apply to unpaid education, as in Mr Van Dijk's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u9	Now I understand Mr Mohandis' question. In my view, this is about the role of the public authorities in relation to different providers. I would like to prevent the interruption of suppliers without any reason, as with the two amendments I tabled with Mr Van der Ree. I do not want the government to interfere with private providers, while it does not do so with publicly funded educational organisations. Mr Mohandis is now asking whether I can imagine that all kinds of supplementary schemes for public-funded education also apply to private education. I am not necessarily convinced that it must always be so, but I still have to take note of the amendment. I am always willing to take a sympathetic look at it, but I am not saying that by definition everything we want to guarantee to the public should always apply to private education. I say that if we offer public funded education space, the same space must also be available for private education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the complaint. About half of the institutions still do not have an internal complaints committee, at least half of the complaints schemes differ from one or more directives and a quarter of the websites still do not provide information on the handling of complaints. The 2014 JOB monitor shows little improvement. 30% of students are still negative about complaints handling. The PVV considers that complaints from students have a signal function. They say something about the quality of education and, in some cases, about the quality of staff. Of course, it is not possible for the MBO institutions to manage the complaints procedure for pupils. My question to the Minister is therefore whether it is really so difficult for these MBO institutions to settle this. What's taking so long? We want to convey the message: finally regulate it as the directives state; it cannot be that difficult. I would like to ask the Minister for a response to this. What's she like in here? I also ask the Minister what she intends to do if it appears that after that legal anchoring, the MBO institutions still do not provide careful complaints procedures for pupils. What happens then? Are these institutions going to be sanctioned, what does that look like? If it isn't, what will happen? This legislative proposal also aims to introduce an advisory right for the members' councils on parental and membership contributions. There is already a right of assent for the participation councils. We believe that the Law on Participation has already been said more than enough instruments to discuss it. I read in the report that the left-wing parties want to go even further than an advisory right, namely a right of assent. We say it again: do not make every person involved financially responsible. Put that financial responsibility where it belongs, and that is with the boards of directors and, in this case, with the participation councils. They have the right information position and are able to keep the lines with the participants' councils open and short. There is already a right of assent to the educational agreement and its form for the participants' councils. Through that route, they influence school costs. My question to the Minister is what added value has a possible right of advice for participants and where she thinks it is now going wrong. Is she convinced that an advisory right can solve this problem? Then I'll come to the penalty pathways. The Minister intends to reduce penalty pathways in the event of a finding of insufficient quality of training. The Minister shall no longer be obliged to issue that revocation decision before 1 November of the year preceding the year of study in which the rights are deprived. The PVV strongly supports the reduction of these routes. However, we are curious to see how this will work. The recent figures, in September 2016, point to seven very weak MBO courses. In addition, there are 82 mbo-training courses whose examination is less than adequate. The next update will take place in October 2016. We are very curious to see how the Minister will deal with these training courses in the near future. What will this mean in concrete terms for those MBOs who are enrolled after 1 November in a training course whose rights will be reduced within about six months? I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u11	I am always surprised when I hear Mr Beertema say that the directors have the best information, that they know best. I can remember times when he called here that it was a self-appointed caste. Well, apparently none of that's true anymore. It was also a caste of left-wing drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u12	Sure. D66 mostly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u13	Sure. In the meantime, Mr Beertema has regained confidence in the directors and apparently students should not be able to talk about the school costs. He referred to the study agreement, as did Mr Rog and Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u14	The education agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u15	Sorry. The education agreement, indeed. However, the right of assent of the Council of Participants is only about the model of the education agreement. This is not at all about the cost of training. Does Mr Beertema agree with me? The students therefore have no influence at all on the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u16	As far as I'm concerned, that goes far enough. Let me come back to that driver's caste. It's still what it is, of course. What we object to is the over-regulation in terms of participation. You cannot take responsibility for every detail in a large educational institution but invest with participants. That's way out of line. If everyone is guilty of financial failures at some point, no one is guilty. You know all about that, Mr Van Meenen. We've seen that happen so many times in the past. We are much more in favour of uniting them with the boards of directors. Then we can finally take that driver's caste down real good. Then we could, for example, declare ROC Leiden bankrupt, which unfortunately did not happen at the time. That's where the responsibility lies. That responsibility does not lie with the participants. They have very different things on their mind. I assume that the participation councils, in which teachers and team leaders are present, have the administrative integrity to keep participants' councils constantly informed, mutually. Those lines should be shorter. That's the way it's supposed to happen. In the end, we invest the responsibility for financial scandals about parental and apprenticeship contributions very strongly at the boards of management.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u17	What does that "investment" mean? Those "scandals," those "ditties and dates," in Mr Beertema's words, there are a lot of them. There are a lot of complaints about the ever-increasing costs. It seems that the boards invest part of the bill, perhaps for things they consider more important than the students, with the students. Isn't that the problem Mr Beertema has to address?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u18	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr Beertema now says: well, that's all right, and that's what we're going to talk to them about. But how do we do that if it doesn't already happen internally?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr Van Meenen misunderstands me again. Looks like D66 has a talent for that. I did not say at all that it should be dealt with that way. We say that there are self-informed teachers in the co-determination councils. They have more than enough influence, for example on those contributions from participants and parents. I know all these abuses that Mr Van Meenen has to say about. They're too scandalous for words. But what do these co-determination councils do there? Where are they? They have the power of consent. Apparently, it escapes them somehow. If that happens, the checks-and-balances seem to be out of order. It's not our law, because it's fine. What Mr Van Meenen is doing is to spread responsibility to participants. That's really not a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u21	May I reply briefly to this one more time, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u22	Yes, briefly, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u23	The checks-and-balances do not exist at all at school costs. There is no authority for participation either. This is purely a matter for the directors. The Labour Party and D66 are now trying to counter that, so that the driver can't just decide how high the school costs are. So I do not understand Mr Beertema. Let me put it in the form of a question. Then where are those checks and balances on school fees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u24	If these checks-and-balances are not in order, then it is primarily up to the co-decision councils to ring the bell. They have more than enough opportunities within the law on participation. These possibilities are often not exploited by the participation councils. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr Beertema continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u26	I think there is enough to say about the equal treatment of private and public education at the moment. Mr Van der Ree has put that very well, and Mr Rog has also done so. The PVV has always been in favour of a level playing field for funded and non-costed educational institutions. This really ensures healthy competition and sufficient freedom of choice. It also stimulates innovation. As Mr van der Ree said, a lot of these institutions are incredibly close to the labour market and sometimes they are even part of that labour market. That's exactly how it's supposed to be. The PVV would have liked to join the amendment, but yes, the liberal friends of freedom apparently have the policy that PVV's should not. So be it. The PVV does ask the Minister why she wants to take stricter action with those private providers than with those publicly funded educational institutions in order to set up these vocational training courses. Can the Minister tell me whether the education inspection might measure the quality of funded and non-costed training in a different way? And, if so, why this particular proposal only for those non-cost training courses? One would expect that if the quality were measured in the same way, that scheme would also apply to publicly funded training courses, as tax money would be used. That is my final question to the Minister. I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u27	Also from here I give my congratulations to my coalition companion on MBO. Welcome to this, I may say very collegiate committee. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is in favour of this bill. This bill strengthens the position of the student, of those whose education is. I can see there's gonna be a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr. Beertema. Short, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u29	This is almost a personal fact. It's a very nice commission. Once our committee was called "the mother of all committees." Since the PVV took office, there has been a change in collegiality. You know that yourself, Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u30	Good. Mr Mohandis can go on with his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u31	I'm just gonna keep going. I see that with a space majority of this committee personally different. Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have just said that it is a good thing that the right to complain is properly safeguarded. We can wholeheartedly support that. The JOB monitor clearly showed that there was still work to be done. It is good that this step is taken. I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Rog. There was a serious undertone in that. I ask the Minister how we deal with the position and complaint of students studying at an institution that is not funded. To what extent is there such a possibility? What obstacles would there be if we seriously considered the Van Dijk amendment? I can't look over that. I want an answer from the cabinet. Perhaps I am already asking a question from Mr Van Dijk on this point, but for me it is an important question. We have been concerned for a long time about rising school costs of MBOs. I know examples of school fees higher than the tuition fees paid by an MBO. I find that really unacceptable. It's amounts I can't always place. It is true that there are MBO courses that require more tools, such as hairdressing sets. We know the examples. It's got to come from somewhere. That is why I am pleased that the cabinet has allocated 5 million for this year and 10 million for next year, which has a much more structural character to do something, especially for those who need the most compensation in their school costs. I have said before that there is some sort of fundamental inequality in the system. Minor MBOs lost much more on school costs over the past four years than their peers at the HAVO or at the VWO. From 1 January 2017 that will finally change. I am very pleased that the introduction of the card will save many families hundreds of euros for children travelling from home to study places. I'm also happy with the extra money for the school fees. We're not there yet. Too often there are examples that I think are not going in the right direction. I am pleased that the cabinet is proposing to give students more control over this in the form of an advisory right. Is that enough? My gut says it's a little too careful. I also read in the bill that the JOB thought that was enough. But after having spoken to them more closely, they still consider consent to mean much more. Whatever is behind it is that as a Chamber, quite wide, we have strengthened the control of students in higher education. I refer to the law that we adopted earlier on this issue. Students in higher education have a right of assent through the training committees but also on parts. If we compare that with what participants' councils really have to say, at points where they can bite instead of barking alone, then that is left behind. I think that's unfair. There are already elements, such as the voluntary parental contribution, which are entitled to consent. The education agreement was mentioned. I do not think that is the right instrument, but I would like to hear the Minister on this in relation to the amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Bishop. Let's settle this in an orderly manner. I and my colleague Mr Van Meenen's amendment also calls for this, together with the JOB, to ensure that the right of assent is properly guaranteed, so that those concerned with education receive a good proposal from the board, so that joint decisions can be taken to keep those costs manageable. That would be my proposal, given the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u32	I agree with Mr Mohandis that it is good to look at sectors in full from time to time. In fact, there has also been occasional criticism of a number of laws because they are rather snappy and focused on one sector. But now Mr Mohandis brings in the student influence in the training committee to support his amendment to give students participation in the MBO and consent to school fees. Those training committees are about the content of the study, aren't they? Does Mr Mohandis agree with me that this is something quite different from the school fees scheme? Why is he tying these cases together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u33	I will come back to Mr Rog in particular later, but let me first say why I am making this comparison in general. I've been digging into this for a long time. The participation of students in higher education goes much further on many elements than in the MBO. That is the general point. I make this comparison because in the new legislative proposal training committees have the right to consent to the co-formulation of the training; that is the more general wording. School fees are often an additional matter. The question of what training looks like and what costs it entails also looks at this co-formation. It is therefore right to look at how many teeth mbo'ers have within a board of participants and how many teeth students have in a student council. I think that the Chamber should look carefully at this and say that students have more opportunities to bite when they co-form the training with everything that goes with it; let us also do so in the MBO. A training course should properly submit the school fees to a board of participants who can really talk about it, because we know from experience that something submitted for approval is much more serious than something that is merely submitted for advice. That is an important step, but as far as my party and D66 are concerned, that is not enough to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u34	Still, I don't understand. While we are really talking about the quality of education in higher education, the teacher and the student are closely involved and talk about this together, Mr Mohandis limits it here in the MBO to the right of assent on money. I just don't quite understand what qualitative improvement there is. If Mr Mohandis had tabled an amendment on that point, if he had wanted to increase participation in this area, we could have had a serious debate on the quality of training. But now Mr Mohandis is tabling this amendment with Mr Van Meenen of D66; so it does not surprise me that we are only talking about money again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u35	No, that's too easy. The proposal by Mr Rog himself and Mr Bishop actually adds this part to the list of right of assent in the WEB, at least that is how I read the amendment, but it seems to me that Mr Rog himself will say the necessary about it. I think that Article 8.2 says so much, and I do not have it ready now. That is what Mr Rog is doing himself. The law already provides that membership councils in the MBO have the right to consent with regard to voluntary parental contribution, internship funds and other elements. It is therefore too easy to say that this is about money; it is about the co-formation of training. Financial accessibility has everything to do with quality; let us not make it very small. I dare even say out loud that Mr Rog actually wants the same thing as us. Our amendment ensures that this is properly enshrined in the law. This is important, because I do not know very much about the advisory powers of participants' councils dealing with money. All money issues that have already been secured, such as voluntary parental contributions and traineeship funds, are covered by the right of assent of the Boards of Participants. Now, please, let's do this in a good way. There is broad support for this in the sector, namely among all those MBOs. That way we can take a good step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u36	I think Mr Mohandis and yours truly agree: the school costs in the MBO are running out of spray holes. The craziest things are charged to students: laptops, hairdresser sets, makeup sets. Mr Mohandis also mentioned a number of examples. Now he says, "Let's give students the right to consent on that point." Isn't that actually a "second best" solution? In itself, the right of assent is of course sympathetic. I'm rarely opposed to that. But isn't it a "second best" solution in this case? Why would you allow students to agree to school fees for which, in fact, the school is responsible? After all, the school should not charge these costs to the student at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u37	I do not know whether that is the case and whether there is room for it in the law; I will pass on that question to the Minister, if Mr Van Dijk agrees. Mr Van Dijk's general point was: is that desirable? Politics is also a struggle. We see that certain training courses require school costs, but we should not pretend that all training courses do. There are training courses that I saw last Monday, when I was on a rock in my own Gouda where it is rightly said: no matter how difficult, we ask our students to do so, because if we were to pay for it ourselves, it would be at the expense of other training courses, at least that could be the consequence. I think it's important to take a good look at that. I've done that since I've been in this room. I started with the greatest burden students experience. Those really are the travel expenses. You should also see if there are pots or possibilities to support the group that indicates not to have it wide from home. We, or at least our parties, Mrs Jadnansing and Mrs Siderius, have tabled a motion in which we have asked the Cabinet very clearly to keep it to a minimum and to come up with additional resources. They've come. There is no doubt that we are going to discuss it with each other in the budget. But in my view, the dot on the horizon must be that a minor Mbo must be able to go to the Mbo unimpeded. However, we must not look away from this and pretend that vocational education is one big thing and that the same thing is happening everywhere. They're very different courses. They're asking for something from students, too. I think it is important that a motivated student should not be deterred and go to the desired education. It starts with an O.V. card. That starts with a reduction in school fees. My question to the Minister is this: how is she going to ensure that amounts that are higher than the average are actually reduced, in consultation with the JOB and with the MBO sector? I can't tie any more strings to it if an education demands double the tuition fee. Something has to be arranged for that. I sincerely hope that group will find the resources that have now been made available. I would also like to know how the Minister is going to shape that. Our struggle is the same, but it is too easy to say: this is it, and done. Mr Van Dijk will really have to do a little more than just make a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Van Dijk asks a short question and then Mr Mohandis gives a concise answer, because his answers last on average three minutes. So briefly, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u39	There are MPs who make it more colourful, Mr. Chairman, but that aside. Mr Mohandis said that at the moment he does not have exactly what the law says about this. I think that's very honest of him. Then let us together ask the Minister to explain what the law says on this point. My belief is that it also fits perfectly with the principles of the Labour Party; it certainly fits with those of the Socialist Party that the student should be able to follow the training without hindrance, as in primary and secondary education. Training must not therefore charge all kinds of costs necessary for the training, because then you create a threshold. As a result, many parents say: "Dear son or daughter, choose another education because it is too expensive." Doesn't Mr Mohandis simply agree with the idea that the student should be able to follow training freely? And does he agree that these high school fees are illegal, and that we should put an end to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u40	I agree with Mr Van Dijk that students should be able to go to school freely. I'm not going to say a word like "illegal," because that sounds a little too much like I would have the wisdom to put that down right now. It's too easy, too. I have just said that in vocational education we are dealing with training courses that require something from a student or from parents. I have also said that I am glad that, if that contribution is too high, the cabinet is paying out money to do something about it. I am also pleased and proud that the cabinet ensures that many young people can travel from home to study place and thus save hundreds of euros. That saves a lot on an annual basis for this group. So there's work to be done at this point. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet is working on this. The ambition must be clear: young people in the MBO must be able to go to school freely and must be provided with everything necessary to successfully complete the training. We have put forward a proposal on this matter together before. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answer. But there's a lot going on in this cabinet for underage mbos. There are Cabinets that have done much less for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr Mohandis continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u42	I have already discussed in detail in the debate on the question of why right of assent rather than right of advice. I really admit that students in higher education generally have a stronger position vis-à-vis their government. I believe that this should be the case with the MBO. A step as is currently being taken in the field of school costs policy, I really think it is a step that the Chamber has minimally to take in relation to how the right of assent is already regulated on other cost elements. I've been talking about complaints before. One question I forgot to ask. We discussed earlier in an interruption debate whether we could impose something like this on a non-costed institution. I also have a question about the nature of a complaints committee. What does a ruling from such a committee mean? How serious is that? And what is the role of the inspection? We do not want a right of complaint without teeth. Since it is not a binding statement, we would like to hear from the Minister how she thinks this is going to work out in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you wish that education would have some sort of "Royal Dutch Sports Association." I consciously say "some kind of." Such a union does not accept one thing, namely changing the rules during the game. As far as the 'co-determination' dossier is concerned, we cannot say that this has not happened. I have put together a number of dates on which legislative changes have entered into force. These are the last two periods of office, i.e. the last five to six years. One entered into force on 1 January 2011. Then one on 27 July 2011. Subsequently, one entered into force on 1 October 2011 and on 16 May 2012. And then it lasted for six months, namely until 1 January 2013. This happened again on 1 August 2013, on 1 September 2013 and on 1 August 2014. Then there was even a year in between. Subsequently, one entered into force on 5 March 2015 and two even entered into force on 1 August 2015 and one re-enters into force on 1 January 2017. This bill and the recently adopted proposal MBO will be added to that. Then we forget that D66 has another plan to give an additional right of consent to students in the MBO. No wonder that even in education is being heard more and more often, although it is still a little soft, it is becoming more and more obvious that you might sometimes want a little more SGP. The SGP is concerned about the bureaucracy with which the MBO has to deal. It has more to do here than other sectors, in particular as a result of the education agreement, however useful that instrument may be in itself. This proposal shows that the legislator is clinging to two thoughts and he has therefore burdened the MBO with double burdens. The educational agreement is the basis for the relationship between student and institution. So you would expect that the subjects that are important for the training can be dealt with in this agreement. However, the government seems to show that it does not trust this educational agreement and therefore proposes additional accountability obligations. Practically speaking, this means that the MBO institutions must not only meet the same obligations as the other sectors, but that the education agreement will come to an end. That agreement should also be amended on a regular basis, for example if an option is changed. Is it not time to rethink the system very critically and arrive at a clear system that will allow sufficient checks-and-balances to be built in and ensure that the interests of institutions and certainly those of the student are sufficiently protected? I would like to hear a comprehensive response from the Minister. In order to make a concrete contribution to reducing the burden, I tabled an amendment together with Mr Rogge with the aim of regulating the necessary school costs in the education agreement. It concerns the amendment in respect of item No. 11. This allows students not only to see the policy, but also to ensure that the provisions of the agreement do justice to the interests of students. I'd like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u44	In the explanatory memorandum to this amendment, the authors write: by explicitly regulating this in the law, an additional advisory right for participants can be avoided. I don't understand. I believe that the right of assent of the Council of Participants currently relates to the model of the education agreement. That is what the author, Mr Bishop, states himself. So that is really something quite different from the amount of the costs. Does Mr Bishop agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u45	That's a correct interpretation. It is then a question of the Council of Participants deciding what the educational agreement will look like, so what will appear in it and so on. So at that level, they have the right to consent. That's why you don't have to negotiate the height with a mr every year. This model therefore requires the agreement of the Participants' Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u46	To be quite specific, for example, this model states that the expected school costs will be included, but of course it does not say that the school costs for certain students will be €635 next year. The right of advice in the Minister's proposal is about that amount and the amendment concerns the right of assent. An upcoming student was thus not helped at all by the fact that there was once agreement with that model, because that is only about the design of the educational agreement and not about its content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u47	Yes, on the content of the education agreement. It is not really about the amounts, but in our opinion it is not exactly desirable. If you have reached agreement on how it is achieved, it must be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u48	The whole reasoning of the SGP is based on the fact that there is a duplication in the rights of students. However, the education agreement is something that the incoming student has to do with. It has in no way been able to influence the level of school fees. That can only be done by the sitting board of participants, and that power, whether it is advisory or consenting, deprives Mr Bishop of them. In other words, Mr Bishop accepts that there is no contradiction to the administrative determination of school costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u49	No, that's an incorrect interpretation. The counterforce is invested with the board of participants. The upcoming student also has no influence in this proposal on the level of education costs he has to make extra, as these are also presented to the mr for advice in this proposal. The upcoming student isn't represented in that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u50	Good. Mr Bishop continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u51	I had come to the end of my speech. As far as non-cost education is concerned, I support Mr Van der Ree's thinking along with Mr Rog's amendment No. 9 recorded. In any case, we shall look at this with a sympathetic eye. I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Ree on his maiden speech and wish him many fine speeches.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr. Chairman. I would like to discuss three issues: school fees, the right to complain and the question of paid versus unpaid. I'll start with the school fees. Professional and practical education often requires equipment to study, practice or work with, from books, laptops and workwear to tools such as brushes or cook knives. Often these materials are provided by the school, but often the students also have to pay for them themselves. This could amount to hundreds or even thousands of euros. The costs can be so high that students can't afford them anymore. These school fees therefore constitute a threshold for starting or continuing a study. For example, these school costs hinder the accessibility of education in the eyes of D66 and contribute to the division that D66 wants to combat. That's why D66 thinks this is very undesirable. It calls on institutions, not only in the MBO, to become much more aware of this problem. It also calls for creativity, because instead of requiring students to buy something, schools could, for example, also give on loan items or provide materials in cooperation with industry in the region. That's what happens in some places. I refer to a training course in car technology which, in collaboration with a garage, ensures that the necessary materials are available. A decision by a school to demand additional investment on top of the tuition fee and therefore additional school costs therefore calls for counter-force, for questions that need to be asked in relation to the relationship between management and students. Is this really necessary? Does the institution have to pay for this or the student? Are there no other ways to get these materials? And most importantly, doesn't this raise a threshold for the students? Those who are best placed to answer these questions are the students themselves, their parents and their teachers. For this reason, D66 together with the Labour Party has tabled an amendment to allow the right of assent of participation at school costs. Nor has Mr Bishop been able to convince me that there is another counter-force somewhere. It is not, after all, laid down in any jurisdiction. There must be a counter-force in response to rising school costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr Van Dijk, do you have a question on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u54	My question is indeed about school costs. Is Mr Van Meenen going to say a lot more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u55	Not so much, but something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u56	Let us then first listen to what Mr Van Meenen has to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u57	That's good, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u58	There is also a great deal of uncertainty as to where the dividing line should lie. Which supplies should be paid by the institutions and which by the students? What's under tuition and what's not? Is there a definition of that? I ask the Minister for a clear dividing line. In basic education, primary education and secondary education, we know compulsory education. The teaching materials are therefore made available by the schools. That line could also be extended to the MBO. A number of students in the MBO are subject to a qualification requirement. Those students are required to go to school. This could lead to the following reasoning: the school is responsible for making teaching materials available to students subject to the qualification requirement, i.e. to obtaining level 2 of the MBO. I am not going as far as Mr Van Dijk, who says we should do this right away, but I would ask the Minister to investigate this. Period. Or should I actually say "question mark"? No, I have to say "point."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u59	Perhaps Mr Van Meenen means rather "comma." Mr Van Meenen is going to fight the division. I still have to get used to the fact that D66 has taken over the entire SP-idioma, but I do like it so I would say: welcome to the club! The last point he made is also exactly the point I am concerned about. Mr Van Meenen thinks that a division is bad, and I agree with him. But the school fees will take care of that. We know that 30% of parents say that the level of school costs affects the choice of education. This is a bad thing, especially since we know that there should be no additional costs for compulsory educational resources during the course of training. I put a very simple question to Mr Van Meenen. A right of consent to know about school costs is a lot of fun, but aren't those high school costs themselves the real problem? Shouldn't we take care of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u60	I think everything I've said is aimed at reducing those high school fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u61	No, because Mr Van Meenen said: I do not want to go as far as Mr Van Dijk, who says that we should stop the school costs. But I want to seduce him to go that far. If D66 really has something to do with education, and we hear that regularly in the media, she should now take her chance and say: away with the school costs! These school costs now constitute a threshold for pupils and create a division, while D66 is fighting against it. Those costs are also completely unjustified, because the school cannot do that at all. The school must provide for the compulsory resources necessary for training. Will Mr Van Meenen come with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u62	I didn't really hear a question. I am seeking to solve something, while Mr Van Dijk is only seeking to ensure that no one in the Netherlands has to pay for anything, by letting all the costs that have to be incurred be borne by the State. If that were possible, it would be absolutely beautiful and I would be immediately in favour of it. However, I am trying to approach it a little more realistically. Some of these school fees are also an investment of the student himself. Let me give you a simple example. If you want to become a carpenter, sooner or later you have to buy a hammer and so you can do just as well when you're in school. It is therefore not always and only necessary for training, sometimes it is also necessary for a particular profession. That's why we need to have a good conversation. Once again, I would like to know from the Minister whether, in line with the fundamental education system, it would not be legally logical for the school to make all the teaching resources available as long as students have a qualification requirement. There are also exceptions to this in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u63	I would like to say a few words very briefly, because I am sorry that Mr Van Meenen is broadening my speech to everything. It's not about making everything free. Alcoholic beverages also do not need to be free of charge. It's about the MBO. That's what we were talking about. Let me touch on that last one, because that's kind of interesting. I would say that training should not be charged for compulsory training requirements, not just up to and including the age of qualification, but for the whole of MBO education, as already laid down in the law. Why don't we get that sorted out real good? The minister isn't implementing that law right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u64	I never object to investigation. I've come to the right of complaint. The legislative proposal also lays down the legal basis for the right to complain. That's good, because there was still a lot to improve. So this is a step forward. However, my group still has some doubts, first of all about the independence of the independent complaints committee. This is, if I read it correctly, set up by the competent authority, the institution itself. Moreover, the judgment is not binding. How is independence guaranteed, other than that the President is not allowed to work in the institution? I also read that some students would not dare to complain because they have to go further with the teachers and the institution. How does the Minister intend to respond to that fear? What if the student doesn't come out at institution level? Suppose that an institution ignores the judgment of the Complaints Commission over and over again or that there is disagreement as to the reasons by which the institution makes the ruling. Does the student have the opportunity to appeal or object outside the institution, as is the case in other sectors? Finally, I come to the recognition of diplomas for non-costed courses. The underlying documents of the legislative proposal indicate that diploma recognition is often issued for training that is not of sufficient quality. If one of the reasons is mentioned is that consulting firms are often hired for paperwork, whereas the practice of the educational provider is really different. I'd like to think about that. Of course, there's a reason to lean on a consulting firm. The procedures for applying for recognition are inscrutable and change every now and then; with this legislative proposal again. That is certainly not for the small suppliers to do. I ask the Minister not only to come up with additional rules, but also to look closely at simplifying the current rules. Does she want to promise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u65	Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate Mr Van der Ree. Welcome to the House of Representatives. I know from a reliable source that he is already greatly missed in the Amsterdam city council, but there will undoubtedly have been a good replacement there. In Amsterdam there is good cooperation between the VVD, D66 and the SP. This is an announcement. We are talking today about a bill on quality in MBO. It regulates the right of students to complain. I think that is entirely right. I've been working on that for years. The procedures for complaints are very unclear for students. I also refer to the report of the Amsterdam Children's Ombudsman, who has just been sent around, also to the Minister. I can confirm that she will soon receive this. This shows that procedures are complex and difficult to find, that there is no appeal and that the complaints committees are not independent. That's serious criticism. Can the Minister respond to this? There are complaints about a variety of subjects, from internships to write-outs, from tuition fees to drop-outs. In the first half of 2016 alone, 800 complaints from MBOs came to the Youth Organisation for Vocational Education (JOB). Remember that many students don't know how to file a complaint, so we're bound to miss a lot of complaints. It's good that we're gonna do better today. The position of the student is strengthened. There are still points of improvement. The first concerns the complaints committee. To pag. 3 of the note following the report states that the Complaints Committee advises the Board and that the Board judges the complaint and draws a conclusion. My conclusion is that the complaints committee only gives an opinion, which is not binding. That's not strong, is it? What if the complaint relates to the board? Don't you get the situation where the butcher approves his own meat? Should the opinion of the Complaints Commission not be binding, with a possibility of appeal, so that both parties can object? Otherwise, this construction is quite non-binding. If the board has actually acted improperly and the complaint is therefore really well founded, how can the student still be right? Hence my amendment to make the opinion of the Complaints Commission binding. In addition, I have tabled an amendment to make it possible to object to the ruling of the Complaints Committee. I'd like to hear a response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u66	I have said a few things about this. There is a risk that only the first amendment will be adopted. Then we have an internal complaint handling which then becomes binding. The board sets up a committee and makes a binding ruling that could be in the interest of the board. That's where I see risks. My question also focuses on that objection. If someone objects or appeals, or whatever you call it, does Mr Van Dijk agree with me that it should not be again with the same committee or another internal committee, but externally, for example with a national complaints committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u67	Totally. If it is correct, I have tabled an amendment on the last point. I also think that Mr Van Meenen's first point is quite right. Essentially, these are complementary matters. Firstly, we will make the opinion binding and, secondly, we will regulate an appeal procedure. If all my fellow Members agree with Mr Van Meenen's and yours truly sharp reasoning, I am prepared to make a good amendment to get both things right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr Van Dijk continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr. Chairman. The Minister does not want all this, because a 'accumulation of procedures and formalisation' is being created, I quote. Is that a valid argument now, if the complainant really has a point? Then there is the fact that directors may become members of the Complaints Committee, while that committee then gives advice to that same board. That committee has to be independent, right? In any case, it has been arranged that a director should not be chairman of the Complaints Committee, but a director of another group may be chairman. I don't think either of this is strong. Hence my amendment that drivers in general should not be part of the complaints committee. That seems much stronger to me. Private or non-expensive MBO training, which has already been mentioned, has been kept out of law, as I understand from a misunderstanding. I agree with the Youth Organisation for Vocational Education that complaints from all MBOs should be legally recognised, including complaints from students from non-cost institutions. I have also tabled an amendment on this. Is it still possible that students can go to the Ombudsline MBO for more general national complaints? There has been a lot of unrest over school costs for years. In the MBO, school fees are getting out of hand. Let me give you three examples. A student attends a car engineering programme and has to pay as much as €300 for a new teaching method. Another student attends equestrian training. He must take a compulsory course that costs €625. The last example is about student Rob, who attends a chef's programme. He needs to buy books, clothes and tools. He received from the school a bill of no less than €2,100, of which €1,600 for ingredients for cooking lessons. I wonder what those ingredients were. Rob wouldn't pay for this, and the school turned in a collection agency. It shouldn't get weirder. I would like to hear a response to these three examples. The Minister is not happy either, as we read in the letter of 30 June. It's unacceptable, she says, that school costs affect the choice of school. I totally agree with her. 30% of parents indicate that the cost of training determines the choice of training. That is not possible if you are in favour of accessible education. Now there are measures to be taken. I'm calling an O.V. card for MBOs. It remains to be seen whether all the MBOs who are entitled to this card will receive it. My colleague Mohandis is very busy with that. I understand he's making an MBO tour. Maybe he wants to send a report of that, with photos, to the Chamber. That's what we like to read. There will also be EUR 10 million for a reduction in school costs. This money is distributed in consultation with the Leergeld foundation. Is the problem solved now? That's the big question. Will all pupils who are entitled to this be given an adequate contribution? Does the Minister have any figures? According to her letter of 30 June, this is an average contribution of €414 per student. How many students have a problem with this amount? Is this $10 million enough to solve that? This is also requested in the motion of the PvdA and the SP. If I understand correctly, there will be an emergency fund now. However, the emergency fund works in a demand-oriented way. That means that a student who thinks the cost is too high only gets help if he asks for it. A student who doesn't ask for help doesn't have any claim to it. Am I right? How's the Minister handling that? Isn't it much clearer to stop all this school fees for students? In response to my parliamentary questions, the Minister says that the school should provide the basic equipment necessary to guide the student to an education. If that's true, then those school fees are not necessary at all. In fact, it is "illegal" to charge the student the costs necessary for the training. That's why I used that word. For example, is Article 8.1.4. of the Education and Vocational Training Act not meant? It says that the registration for a training course cannot be made conditional on financial contributions other than tuition or course fees. I'm asking the Minister to give us an exegesis on that article. I think it's very good to have a lawyer look at that. I propose that the student's own contribution should really be limited to a voluntary contribution for extras that have nothing to do with the compulsory programme. This is also true in primary and secondary education. The own contribution should continue to be limited to a maximum. For this, I'll make a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u70	It is very good that Mr Van Dijk quotes that article of the law. Does he agree with me that it is actually impossible to accept Mr Bishop and Mr Rog's amendment? This amendment, after all, makes school costs part of the education agreement, which must first be concluded in order to gain access. My question, perhaps indirectly to the Minister, is therefore whether this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u71	I think Mr Rog and Mr Bishop's amendment is incomprehensible. I'm assuming the Minister will strongly advise against it. Perhaps the proposers themselves will also consider that it is better to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u72	We have come to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. I understand the Minister needs about five minutes to prepare himself. I shall therefore suspend the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Ree. To his predecessor, Mrs Lucas, I keep beautiful memories. I talked to her a lot about Luther and Erasmus. She thought I should be less Luther and more Erasmus. Now another philosopher has been added by the VVD group. I can only say to Mr Van Ree that I am pleased with this, even as a former teacher of political philosophy. We are talking about the MBO. We are talking about well-educated and resilient professionals, who we want to deliver for a labour market on which they must be able to work properly as professionals. So we want training, the quality of which is undisputed. We have worked hard on this in recent years, for which the schools deserve a compliment. Deficiencies and shortcomings in the quality of education and exams have been eliminated and management and quality management have been significantly improved. In a recent report on Dutch education, OECD has therefore given the necessary compliments to the MBO. I can also always tell that foreign nationals in Europe, but also outside Europe, particularly in Asia, are extremely interested in our MBO. However, we are not yet here. I say to Mr Bishop: when you are busy, you sometimes see shortcomings in the legislation and we see them now too. That is why there is now a legislative proposal which, in my view, makes a number of improvements. They're not earth-shattering, but it's important for people who care. Let me start with the theme of school fees. Parents of students can have little money to spend. If they have to make a study choice for their child and they involve the school costs, this can lead to undesirable decisions. Parents can say to their children, for example, that they should not go to the intended training, or students are not able to follow this training properly because they do not have sufficient resources to pay the school costs. The school costs in the MBO have been keeping the moods busy for a number of years now. There is a lot of discussion about the voluntary contribution, who should bear what costs, the level of costs, the lack of timely information on this and the dissatisfaction with books purchased that do not come from the cellophane. All very important complaints and often very undesirable signals. In particular, I say to Mr Van Dijk that some of the problems that have arisen today have arisen from the very conscious choice to abolish the WTOS, the Education Contribution and School Costs Act, and to include them in the child schemes that fall within the SZW Department. Why did we do that? Precisely because of what Mr Van Dijk did, namely that a number of parents did not use the WTOS and we thought that they should get it automatically. However, we have noticed that this led to unintentional problems, particularly for the group of MBOs aged 16 and 17. I want to deal with these problems now. It is about something: the average school cost for a 16- or 17-year-old MBO is about €1,400. This is demonstrated by the additional research into the school fees for 16- and 17-year-olds, which I had carried out by Oberon. A substantial part of this, about €600, is caused by travel costs. I am therefore very pleased that the public health card for 16 and 17 year olds starts on 1 January, so that at least the problem of this part of the cost has been solved. Mr Van Dijk and Mr Mohandis asked about how many students we are talking about. I can say that 30,000 students have already applied for him. Compared to other target groups, this is a lot, and also compared to other things that MBOs have to apply for. But, as with the study advance, I will continue to campaign very intensively, because I am already working on this in order to ensure that anyone who will be entitled to this card will receive it. With the introduction of the OV card, we have already solved an important part of the problem. The reform of the child schemes, which I have just mentioned, has also increased the amount of child support. For an average family with two children, one aged 16 or 17, this means about €386 extra. Together with travel expenses, this means on average compensation of some 70% of school costs. That's not enough. It may happen that a child does not travel, but has to buy expensive materials, ranging from, for example, software for graphic training and workwear required for safety training, to cookery knives for hospitality training. Because I find that undesirable, I want to do something about it, and I want to do it by offering customization. I informed the Chamber in a letter that I am making 5 million available for 2016. That's actually half the school year, so from September 1st. With Prinsjesdag I announced that there will be a structural provision of 10 million extra from 2017. The arrangements for making these funds available will be published at the end of September. Those funds are made available to MBO schools. The MBO schools received a letter at the beginning of September, so prior to that. I ask the schools to cooperate with the Foundation for Teaching Money, because they often know the parents and their children. However, not all municipalities have a Stichting Leergeld, so schools must also take their own responsibility. I think we can settle this well with the 5 million and 10 million respectively. I also think that we can make a further improvement through the original law on the right of consultation for student participation. I say to Mr Beertema that this right of advice is not yet available. Parents have a say in this, but there is no participation in the MBO on this issue, so there is no participation in the school cost policy. I think it is important for students to be able to talk about this, because they are the ones who suffer from it. They are also the ones who come up with complaints. With this right of advice, students can make their voices heard better. The discussion that student councils have on school costs does not, I would stress, focus on the cost per individual MBO course, because that would become a very bureaucratic exercise for a large rocket with a lot of training programmes. The discussion should focus on the principles governing the general school cost policy of an MBO course. Such a starting point could be that the school only prescribes the means of teaching that are really necessary, bearing in mind that it is about money from others, namely parents and students. Another example is that only digital teaching material and books that are actually used during the lessons may be prescribed. Moreover, there are already institutions that are doing well and have the starting point that the school has to repay the costs of books that are not being used to the student. I think that is a very good starting point. You can include that in an arrangement like this. However, it is better to avoid it and only to prescribe books that are really used. You can also include in such a scheme that personal educational supplies, such as workwear and shoes, should be made mandatory only if this is necessary because of occupational safety regulations, rules that should, for example, ensure safety. In addition, you can include, for example, the need for schools to communicate in a clear and timely manner about school costs policies to parents and students and to actively communicate arrangements and provisions for students who cannot afford the educational supplies needed to attend a training course. What Mr Van Meenen suggested can also be included: if you really can't pay for it yourself, you can get funds on loan or you can get funds used or cheap. The principles can be laid down in a policy document after alignment with the student council. The training courses can then start working on this. An example of a school that already does this is the Albeda College in Rotterdam. That's what his school-cost policy has worked out and written down. If the Chamber wants, I can spread the example of Albeda College, because I found it enlightening myself to see how that college is doing. An advisory right was originally chosen and not a right of assent because school fees were complex and neither partner, JOB (Jongeren Organisation Vocational Education) and the MBO Council, were in favour of this at the time. They gave the following reasons for this. Student councils are not sufficiently equipped to share responsibility for the financial policy of an MBO institution. In addition, the existing right of consent shall be informed and the use of the voluntary parental or participant contribution as well as the way in which this contribution is agreed between participant and board is not yet sufficiently effective in practice. Finally, JOB and MBO Council did not want student councils to determine in detail what the school costs are. I still think the latter: I find it undesirable when it comes to training very much at the level of detail. However, I think it is important to have an exchange of views on the framework. Mr Mohandis and Mr Van Meenen have tabled an amendment (34347, No. 10) in order to change the advisory right into a right of assent. As I said, I was guided in the design by the discussions with JOB and the MBO Council last year. Then they both said they had a preference for advisory rights. For me, the most important thing is that students start to talk about school costs policy and that they can actively influence it. Whether this goes through advisory or consent rights, I do not think it is the most important thing. The most important thing for me is that the school fees are made negotiable. It can't be that because you can't pay for school supplies, you can't take your intended education. I have no objection to consent. I shall therefore leave the amendment to the House's discretion. After all, there is something to be said for it. I also understand that JOB has changed its mind and is now in favour of the right of assent. I have taken good note of that. I myself find it undesirable that it is very detailed about the level of education, but when it comes to the framework, I think that students, with the examples I have just given, are very well able to give their opinion on this. Then I come to the question of Mr Van Dijk, among others, whether you should make sure that no contribution is requested at all. That may be a good thing, but the question is whether it is desirable and feasible at the moment. In my letter of 30 June, I indicated that MBO schools should be responsible for basic training equipment with the state contribution they receive. The MBO student does not have to contribute to this, other than by statutory tuition or course fees. But the MBO-cost is not set up that MBO-students should not be expected to make an additional contribution at all. Things such as books, digital teaching material or, for example, personal supplies, I have just mentioned all the safety shoes that the student may be asked to purchase himself. I agree with Mr Van Meenen that this is part of the cost of vocational training. You need those shoes in your profession after that and so it's not weird that you take responsibility for that yourself, as long as it's within certain and reasonable limits. We are talking about how we can deal with this. We do so with the agreement or with the advisory rights of the Participants' Council. I also note that the cabinet has recently taken the necessary measures, supported by the coalition and often by others. I would like to draw your attention to the public health card, this year's budget of 500 million, structural aid and child schemes. However, I do not see any means at all in Mr Van Dijk's request. If we do it now, it will cost the resources for the quality of education, for example the number of teachers. I would point out to Mr Van Dijk that it is a debilitating measure if he wishes to do so for all students, while I am now dealing with the 5 or more. 10 million mainly focuses on customization for those students who need it, who have parents who can't afford it for granted. Mr Van Dijk compares it with secondary education. Yeah, the textbooks are free there. That has been a deliberate decision of this cabinet. I would say, above all, count the blessings of the policies of recent years. Mr Mohandis...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr. Van Dijk? Or is this still about the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u75	It's all still about school expenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u76	Why don't we just finish that point? No, Mr Van Dijk. But let's do it a little bit per point. Your name has been mentioned so many times now, you're responding now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u77	And that makes the debate more fun for the viewers, doesn't it? Otherwise, we all have monologues all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'm sure that won't be so bad, because you'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you. Does the Minister recognize that the law is now being implemented insanely? The Minister says that the training should provide the student's basic equipment. Then I'd say that's what it takes to take the training. However, all kinds of costs are charged to students who are needed for the training. That's kind of like saying to the kindergarten kids that they can go to elementary school and sign there, but they have to pay for the crayons themselves. I thought we were gonna think that was crazy. Does the Minister recognize that something crazy is going on here? The training shall provide the basic equipment. Then why the school fees for the students?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u80	We are not talking about pre-school education but about vocational training in which students are prepared for a profession and for which I do not think it is unreasonable that you pay for part of your own teaching materials. In this context, I would like to point out what we are doing in higher education. What is not allowed is to ask students for money for, for example, the appointment of teachers. Moreover, it must always be within reasonable limits and it must be the equipment, the resources of the student himself. When it comes to clothing, it is also clothing, for example shoes, which is the student's. The school has to make sure it's reasonable. It must also ensure that arrangements are made for those who are unable to pay them in one way or another. There we have the structural amount of 5 or more. $10 million. The proposal now before us aims to ensure that a school's board cannot dictate everything, nor that individual teachers can do so, but that proper agreements are made on it. In view of the kind of education that we are talking about here, I do not find it strange that a student should occasionally, within reasonable limits, purchase specific parts, but it should not be asked whether a student wants to contribute other than tuition and tuition fees. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u81	The Minister himself states that it is unacceptable for parents and their children to avoid training because of the costs. 30% of parents indicate that costs now play a major role in the choice of training. These are all costs for materials needed for that training. The Minister says in her own letter that she finds that unacceptable. I find that unacceptable, too. Training continues to charge materials necessary for training, while the Minister himself says that the training should provide basic equipment. Does the Minister agree with me that the law is not being properly implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u82	I do not agree with Mr Van Dijk. I just explained that. I do agree with him that it is totally undesirable for financial considerations to play a role in the choice of study and for parents to be hindered by their own limited income in the choice of their children's studies. That's why I'm doing something about it. We are already solving 70% of these financial problems by means of the DP card and child schemes. In addition, we will also use additional customization for those who need it to ensure that parents are not hindered by finance when making a choice. But what Mr Van Dijk wants, I find undesirable. I also think it's reasonable to ask students for something. I would point out once again that Mr Van Dijk has no money for it either. I have never seen him come up with any concrete proposals in recent years. So what he does is actually say to schools: do less teachers, do less education and pay for those facilities. I don't think that's desirable right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u83	Finishing, now the monkey comes out of the sleeve. In fact, the Minister agrees with me. Only, she says it costs money. Then I say, okay, then we'll have to find a good solution to that. I am convinced that there is a lot of money within the budget of the MBO schools. But then let's be honest. Basically, the law is not properly implemented. After all, the school should provide the basic equipment. That's not happening right now. And the minister shouldn't accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u84	I have heard Mr Van Dijk listen better. I've just explained to you two or three times that the law says that you can't ask for extra resources besides tuition or tuition fees. However, a school may ask within reasonable limits for parts that are also in the possession of the student, which are also valuable after the course, because the employee also needs these resources in the exercise of his profession. That's what we do in higher education. We don't think that's weird at all. I therefore disagree with Mr Van Dijk in principle. I also note that even if I followed his reasoning, he would not provide any resources. And if he doesn't, he'll only make the situation worse because it's demanded at the expense of the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u85	Does the Minister agree with me that this issue of professional costs, that component, is actually already covered in the education agreement? That educational agreement shall require the agreement of the Participants' Council. In fact, therefore, in line with our amendment, the provision in the law is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u86	No, I disagree with Mr Bishop. I shall immediately discuss the amendment he has tabled together with Mr Rog, in respect of item No. 11. With regard to the individual education agreement and the agreement of the Participants' Council, I note that the model agreement does not contain any information on the level of costs and the justification for them. This can be included in a model agreement. Indeed, the Participants' Council has the right of assent to the model of the Education Agreement. However, this only raises the issue of school costs. Failure to mention the subject does not affect the level of school fees or the way in which those who cannot pay the supplies themselves are compensated for this. It only means that the model agreement includes something about school costs, but the individual education agreement is an individual agreement. This one doesn't say anything about the school's policy. This can lead a school to say to a student: this is what you have to pay, and if you can't pay, you won't come to this school. I find that undesirable, and I therefore advise against the amendment. I do not think it has the intended effect, namely that there should be a dialogue on how to manage school costs. Good policy dialogue ensures that no unnecessary costs are incurred. That's exactly what I want. I want that discussion with the students and the student representation to be conducted, but not just with an individual student, in the vein of: these are the costs you have to make and it is further up to you to find a solution. I therefore reject the Bishop/Rog amendment. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u87	It is precisely the amendment that provides for the education agreement to set out carefully the school costs that are considered necessary for training. Since this requires the approval of the Participants' Council, the discussion about it has been secured. Of course, an educational agreement is concluded with each individual student or student, but that does not mean that each individual student receives a personal variant of the educational agreement. There are standards that apply to training. In this way you will receive that education costs for the students are unnecessarily incurred. In fact, the directors are forced to talk about this, in order to obtain agreement with these educational agreements. So I don't really understand the Minister's objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u88	The agreement applies to the model education agreement. That is an abstract education agreement, in which all the elements I have just mentioned can never be taken into account. How do you make sure you never write books if they're not used? How do you ensure that personalised educational supplies are prescribed only if required by occupational health policies? That is not what the model education agreement is about. I do not think that is the right place to discuss how we can ensure that extra school costs are reduced. At Albeda College, for example, this is discussed with the Participants Council. I insist that the membership agreement is the wrong vehicle for discussing this problem and conducting the dialogue. In the end, the agreement is something that is presented to the individual student, in the vein of: this is it, here you have to abide by. This is different from having a good dialogue on reducing extra school costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr Bishop can now say one more thing, and then we always do interruptions twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr President, in order to meet your desire to speed up the sitting, we are going to stop discussing the amendments immediately. So the conversation has progressed. What the Minister is saying is that it should be included in the education agreement. It can be made an individual redress and the general frameworks to be met and the costs it incurs require the agreement of the Board of Participants. Then I would say that you no longer need a separate mr route, but that you can do it very well through that education agreement, because that is where it belongs: the costs, the insight, the overall overview of it. I would like to ask the Minister to take a fresh look at this fine Bishop/Rog amendment. 11 to watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u91	I took a good look at that, but that doesn't change my opinion. I can repeat it once again, but I also heard Mr Van Meenen say: that education agreement does not affect the level of school costs. That's a failure accompli. You want that discussion, that's what it's about, and it's a discussion that needs to be held every year, because teaching materials change and computer programs need to be purchased or not. You want a dialogue to be held on what is needed at a particular school and how they can ensure that costs are kept within limits at that school. Then it does not seem wrong to me at all that the board of that school is talking about this with participation. To be honest, it doesn't seem too much to me from that school either. It seems much more complicated to me if you want to ride all those parts I have just mentioned in the education agreement in one way or another. Then you still have nothing manageable to make the individual student understand exactly what is expected of him or her. I'm sorry for Mr Bishop, but I'm sticking to my judgment. Mr Beertema asked whether it had any added value. Yes, because an MBO institution will also have to explain why school costs are necessary, how it has come to prescribe educational supplies and what solutions it offers for students with less financial space. This also does not fit in with the individual education agreement. I think this is the right way to do it. The participants' councils are supported to ensure that this is done properly. Mr Mohandis asked if I am sure that school costs will be reduced. I told you, I'm talking about the school fees and the spending of the 5/q. 10 million have had consultations with the MBO Council and Stichting Leergeld. The starting point is that schools only prescribe the teaching tools that are really needed, and only books and digital material are prescribed. I've asked the schools to map out what they're doing or what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing, what they're doing. 10 million, end up where it Then we can see if that solution is sufficient. I expect to, but I also want to be closely monitored where those resources end up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u92	Can I ask when we're gonna get an effect on that? Is it true that it is a demand-oriented scheme and that a student must state that he has difficulty with the costs of claiming the funds of the scheme? Or does it work differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u93	Yes, because it could also be the school that notices that a student has problems, or the municipality. That is why I am looking for intensive cooperation with Stichting Leergeld, because he knows about all these problems together. At a school, they know who's in there, and at the municipality, they know who's in trouble in that area. I would just like to follow that up to make sure that these resources will end up in the hands of the people for whom they are intended, apart from all the adjustments we have made to the child arrangements. I repeat myself, but since the adjustments, the child's arrangements naturally come to the attention of the people themselves. However, we have found that it is not enough to reach a specific group of 16- and 17-year-olds in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u94	That is clear, but my question remains when we are going to get that arrangement so that we can see how it works. I understand that this is still being worked out. In education there are many questions about exactly how this will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u95	That is why I informed the schools early in September ahead of the regulations. Of course, I have to make it all technically neat. I expect the schools to be able to handle it well. I haven't had any more questions about it lately. We have taken the decision in principle that it is the easiest way to do it through schools. Wherever possible, we do it in collaboration with Stichting Leergeld. We do not want to work with all kinds of emergency funds, because then a lot of money is spent on equipment costs. This is the way to get the money to the target group as well as possible. I can send the settlement to you by the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u96	The rules are being sent. I call Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u97	I also welcome that commitment. The Minister insisted on cooperation with municipalities. There are municipalities that implement a generous policy through poverty policies that also reach vulnerable young people. Other municipalities are less active in this area. Is the Minister prepared to see if the well-known target groups can find their way to this pot? Collaboration is essential for this. Is the Minister prepared to look closely with her colleague in Social Affairs and Employment to see whether these arrangements will also reach those we want to reach?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u98	Yes, I am. In fact, I already have very intensive contact with Mr Klijnsma on this matter. It is also working on this under the 100 million to support, in particular, children of low-income parents. There is also a very important relationship with the municipalities. We need to ensure that it all fits in very well. That is why I did not opt for a separate emergency fund. Such a fund sounds interesting, but this is the most effective way forward. I've come to the complaint law in the MBO. Examinations of the inspection in the period 2008-2012 showed that the treatment of complaints by students at MBO schools was far from complete. This is frustrating for the students concerned who do not hear their complaint and also not good for the institution itself with regard to the quality of education and the image. I fully agree with Mr Beertema that complaints have a signal function. It's basically some kind of free advice for a school. The school can learn from it and improve. Instead of putting away the complaints of pupils and students as much as possible, schools should be interested in them. I'm glad everyone feels the same way these days. The MBO Council is also of the opinion that such a complaint procedure is desirable. Fortunately, many improvements have been made since the 2008-2012 surveys. We have the ombudsline MBO. Through renewed initiatives by the JOB and the MBO Council, something really happened. Having a complaint regime is a condition for membership of the MBO Council and NRTO and is also part of the governance code. I think that is very good from both organisations. JOB and MBO Council have once again drawn up guidelines for the handling of complaints and actively brought them to the attention of MBO institutions. However, they still receive many complaints from the Ombudsline and also from the JOB every year which indicate that the complainant is apparently still not able to reach the institution. The 2016 JOB monitor shows that 39% of students do not know where to go if they have a complaint and less than half, 40%, are satisfied with the treatment of the complaints. Despite the good steps, there is still room for improvement. Now the complaints regime in the MBO is not yet legally established, where it is in all other education sectors. Primary education, secondary education, HBO and wo all have complaints, but not the MBO. So that's what we're gonna do for the MBO. A legal regime for complaints in the MBO does not mean extra work for the schools that are already taking it well, but for the institutions that are failing just a stick behind the door: boys, you are expected to take this seriously. There are institutions with a complaints regime that works properly. There is one point of contact for all complaints and that works independently within the institution. Without legal anchoring, the inspection does not have a concrete point of action to enforce. The Chamber has asked a number of questions. Mr Mohandis asked about the importance of a complaint committee's ruling and whether institutional bodies could ignore the opinion. I do not see Mr Mohandis anymore, but I will answer his question anyway. It is not the task of the Complaints Commission to make a final judgment, but the opinion does place a great deal of weight on the scale. The competent authority can't just ignore it. If the board deviates from the advice, it should always explicitly state the reason for it. It should also send the opinion to the complainant. So it is certainly, as I emphasise, not a non-binding opinion. MBO schools are also required to publish annually what has happened to the handling of written complaints, so that stakeholders and, for example, participants' councils can take note of this. I would add that it also provides a point of reference for the inspection to be able to control schools. Mr Beertema asked why it was so difficult for MBO institutions to arrange a complaint procedure for students. Mr Bertema's question is also my question, because it is not that complicated. We also know it in the rest of the education. Complaint treatment helps you improve your education. It also helps the inspection to be able to act enforcementally if an important device as complaint treatment is under control, now or in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u99	I do not agree at all with the Minister's conclusion that it is therefore not a non-binding opinion. Because it is. The Complaints Committee will give a ruling. The board can just ignore it, albeit it has to do so motivatedly, and then it just stops. I don't understand something. Maybe the Minister can explain that to me. In primary and secondary education, for example, there is a national complaints committee which can be used. Why wouldn't that be the best thing for the MBO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u100	I told you, the Ombudsline MBO is here for now. Complaints are also coming in to JOB. What we are doing here is nothing but introducing what we already have in primary and secondary education. There is no obligation to make a judgment binding. So I don't see why we should do that here. Let us note that a very large part of the schools now have a complaint regime, since the signals I mentioned earlier. We are now making legislation for the MBO as it is for the other education sectors. I see no reason to deviate from that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u101	That is factually incorrect. Moreover, I am not talking at all about making this binding, which is what the Minister is talking about. I'm talking about a national complaint committee. It exists simply for primary and secondary education. The Minister wants to level it out. Then why isn't there a national complaints committee for the MBO? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u102	I think you could consider the Ombudsline MBO as a national complaint committee. At least we have extended it for another year, because we first want to know how the complaints procedure is going. In po and vo we have a lot more schools, so there is a different way of dealing with complaints. I think that the comparison with higher education is also appropriate here. There is a complaint procedure and it is important that it is handled well, that it is not too easy to deviate from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u103	May I respond to this again, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u104	One more time, Mr Van Meenen. But next time, try to be more succinct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'm getting some anointing lyrics here, Mr. Chairman. And the minister's talking about an ombudsline. I just want a national complaints committee like we do in primary and secondary education. What does the Minister think is opposed to this? This is perfectly normal, isn't it? We have an internal complaint committee here. It's been appointed by the board. There will then be an objection to a decision of the Board. Then we say: then it stops and then you can call the ombudsline. Well, that's nice and beautiful, but why don't we just choose a national complaints committee, as it should be in a decent country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u106	The question is clear. Why not a national complaint committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u107	Yes, but first of all I would like to say that Mr Van Meenen is doing a real injustice to what we are proposing here. He pretends that such a board can simply say: I don't like the complaint and I move it aside. Of course, that's not possible at all. If a board does that, it has to argue that. Those arguments must also be sent to the person who lodged the complaint. This must also be recorded in the annual report and the inspection can be enforced. So if a school does that regularly, then the inspection will draw conclusions. What Mr Van Meenen is saying is actually wrong, because there is no legal provision for a national complaints committee for primary education. The only thing we are doing now is laying down in the law what already applies to other sectors of education, namely that schools should have a complaints committee. That's a minimum provision. There is always talk about whether there are any other elements that are desirable. I see Mr Van Meenen shaking no now, but there is no legal provision requiring that there should be a national complaints committee in primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u108	There may not be any legislation. I agree with the Minister, but it is not true that you can equate an ombudsline with a national complaints committee such as the one in the po and vo? As far as I know, that national complaints committee also provides a professional opportunity in the po and vo. Whether there is a legal basis or not, there is. I agree with D66's question as to what is opposed to doing so for the MBO. That doesn't have to be so hard, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u109	But the question is, do you want to take care of all that in the law? I note that what I am proposing here is the same as what is already happening in the other education sectors. I also note that in higher education it has been checked whether the complaints system works. This has also been done in basic education, where complaints have been regulated for much longer. A study carried out by Panteia in 2013 showed that the scheme works properly in the foundational education system. The scheme therefore complies with what is expected of it. The same applies to higher education. That's where the complaint law has been known since 2013. This has also been assessed mostly positively. So what I'm doing right now is saying, well, it's weird that we don't have this in the MBO when it's there in all those other sectors. Now I'm saying that's what we're gonna do in the MBO. That's what I legally prescribe. This does not mean that there cannot be many other ways, for example through student representatives such as JOB, via an ombudsline or otherwise. I'm not ruling out any of that out, but I'd like to settle for this part of the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u110	That's very commendable. I must also say that it works well in the po and vo and that it deserves a great compliment. The fact remains, however, that the mbo has a very bad track record. We just heard the percentages. Apparently, it's so tough and poachy in that sector that none of it comes from it. I find the figures now mentioned, also by JOB, shameful. So why don't we just get that legal stick behind the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u111	I'm introducing that legal stick right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u112	But let us do so for the national complaints committee as an appeal. Let's choose, instead of settling this through that, what do we call it, that phone line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u113	The strictest intervention that an institution can feel is a financial sanction of the inspection. As it becomes a legal provision, the inspection can therefore see how institutions deal with it. I will invite the inspection to look very closely at this in the coming years, also because I fully understand the concerns of the Chamber. I will explicitly ask the inspection. If the inspection finds that a complaints committee easily ignores students' complaints, that is a sign to act. The inspection can verify this by requiring the institutions to report properly in the annual reports. In short, the best sanction we have, including for the MBO, is the intervention by the inspection. That's exactly what we're dealing with here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u114	Mr President, I am going to make you happy, because I am going to interrupt. I would point out to my fellow Members that I am in favour of Amendment No 2. 16, which deals exactly with why we are now being asked to do so. It is very good that the Minister is in the process of strengthening the right to complain. But colleagues have a point when they say that it is not finished yet: there is no appeal and the opinion of the complaints committee can be put aside by the board. We hope not, but the board can do that and then there's nothing at all. I would say: look closely at the amendment to item No. 16, because that really makes the law complete!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u115	Once again, Mr Van Dijk is not listening very carefully today. I have just indicated that there is indeed a possibility of a sanction: the action of the inspection. As far as I am concerned, that is the best solution. I would also like to say that I hope that the House will take this into account, which, in the context of the Internet consultation, has also explicitly expressed its satisfaction with this legal anchoring. They see it as something positive that clearly indicates the legislative proposal to which a proper complaint regime must comply. The MBO Council can also agree to this. In the end, it has to do so at a decentralised level at a school. In short, I note that many improvements have already been made in schools. I do not think it is entirely right to say that all MBO schools are making a mess of things. They've shown some really big improvements. For the schools that have it all in order, this is a nice support. For other schools, it is an incentive to do that very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u116	I would also like you to give your opinion on the amendment to item No. 16?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u117	I do not recommend that amendment, for the reasons I have indicated. Mr Van Meenen asked how independent the complaints committee is. Most of the institutions, almost 40, are members of an external complaints committee. So that's not where this is going. I would like to give the other institutions the freedom to choose for themselves. In any event, the chairman may not be a member of the competent authority from the point of view of the independence of the committee. The other members may be, but that is the subject of the right of assent for participation. This can only be done if the board of participants is keen to have someone on the complaints committee. That could happen sometime. Certainly not every driver should be trusted in advance. Furthermore, there is a guarantee that a person who has been involved in the conduct to which the complaint relates may not deal with the complaint. These guarantees also apply to other sectors of education. So here too we are following what other sectors are already doing. Then I have the amendment to item No. 13 by Mr Van Dijk, which states that the opinion of the Complaints Commission must be binding. I would advise against this amendment. It is not the task of the Complaints Committee to reach a final judgment. The opinion does, however, place a great deal of weight on the table. It is a serious opinion and the competent authority cannot just ignore it. In the event of a deviation from the opinion, the authority must explicitly state the reasons for this. So it's not a non-binding recommendation. The opinion is also not binding on the complaints committees of the other educational sectors. Again, I note that Panteia's reports show that the complaints committees work well there. So let's not make it unnecessarily complicated. Where we can coordinate education legislation, we do. So this is where we do the same thing. Mr Van Dijk has tabled an amendment to item No. 12. This ensures that the complaint regime applies to a non-costed institution. It is clear that it is also important for non-cost education that there is a proper complaint regime. This does not alter the fact that, in the case of non-expensive education, it is possible to opt for a more cautious attitude. In response to the question raised by the SGP and the note on the report, I gave my opinion on this once again. I indicated that I agree with the SGP. I also note that the NRTO has recently made the demand to its members that they have a proper complaint regime. All Members have acted accordingly. A compliment for the NRTO. For the other education sectors, the legislator did not consider such an obligation necessary for non-cost education. The educational user may, in his choice of non-cost training, involve the quality of the complaint procedure or the total absence of a complaint procedure. I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 12 for all these reasons. I'll say something. Soon I will come to the amendments tabled by the VVD and the CDA, which grant additional rights to non-cost education. If there is a majority in favour of this, I believe that the House can only vote in favour of this amendment. I heard Mr Mohandis say. After all, it's two-and-a-half. They are two different pillars in education: private and funded. You cannot say to private education: you do get the rights that the funded education has, but not the obligations it has. I therefore advise against this amendment, and I will immediately tell you that I will also advise against the amendments in which the opposite is applied. With regard to the right of complaint, the SP refers to a report. I don't know that. I'll take note of it. So, listening to Mr Van Dijk, I have the impression that this very much supports my speech in order to work on a national complaint regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u118	The Minister now attaches an appreciation to our amendments and I would therefore like to ask a question about Mr Van Dijk's amendment. I think I have just heard the Minister say that there is a complaints system within private education that works very well. That's what they organized themselves. As a government, we don't have to interfere with that. However, the Minister says that this amendment should also apply to non-paid education. I honestly don't understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u119	I have said that I see good steps being taken, including in non-cost education. I referred to the NRTO. It follows the example of the MBO Council and says: we want all institutions to have a complaints committee. However, there are also private institutions that do not join the NRTO. Then they don't have a complaints committee. If we lay it down legally, the same requirement will apply to everyone. I have said that the sector is developing and that I see that the institutions financed are doing better. There is therefore no objection that we are now laying down this legal framework. So good steps are being taken by the NRTO, but I can't say that this is going great everywhere, because we don't know that yet. These agreements have only recently been made. That's one. Then there is another point of principle. How do you deal with private education in relation to public education? If you want private education to have equal rights, for example with regard to keeping an education 'in the air' if the quality is not in order, then you must also reason the other way round. Then it is not possible, in principle, to explain why, for example, you are making a different assessment with regard to a complaints committee. This brings me to the subject of diploma recognition and automatic termination in non-cost institutions. It might be good to explain that in the MBO we have a recognition procedure for non-cost institutions. Diploma recognition is granted on the basis of documents and plans, as recognition is granted in practice prior to actual implementation. So it's mostly a paper check. We had a debate last night on why this is not desirable in higher education and why we are introducing the complete cycle requirement there. In the MBO there is no requirement that the training must be actually offered. This is linked to the structure we know within the MBO: the national qualification structure. Mr Van Ree made a plea for accreditation. His plea was consistent with that of the previous VVD spokesperson, but accreditation is not going to help because these systems differ. It's certainly not going to help if you want more regional customization, because accreditations are always on a national level. An MBO is organized differently with a qualification structure. If qualifications are added or changed on a proposal from the SBB, the non-costed institutions must also be able to respond quickly. I share the plea for innovation and the opportunity to move faster with everyone. I talked to the SBB about it this morning. That organisation also sees opportunities to really work much faster. I welcome that in general. However, the question is what this means for the different parts of this law. However, the systematic nature of the MBO legislation means that new training courses can only be assessed in advance on paper. So we cannot say with certainty whether the quality is in order. I am not going to repeat what I said last night, but I believe there is broad agreement that the quality of training, in MBO and in higher education, is crucial. Quality must never be called into question. The recognition procedure in the MBO is usually good, but unfortunately it sometimes happens that vocational training looks good on paper, but in practice absolutely does not meet the required quality of education or legal requirements. So you often make legislation for that. The State of Education 2014/2015 gave a not undivided positive picture of the quality of the non-costed MBO. So there is already the beginning of the problem. There is empirical evidence that the quality of non-cost education is not always in order. Before the recognition of such training can be withdrawn in such a case, we are a number of years further. I mentioned the example of the EuroPort Business School (EPBS) in the debate on higher education last night. I've been trying to withdraw his status for years and all these years there are students who still think they're getting good education, when it's bad education and they have to pay for it. I find that very undesirable. This is the same as for higher education: we do not want students to be misled, not even upcoming students. Diploma recognition is always used in the recruitment of new students. Too often in practice, students are lured with an education which does not appear to be there at all. That is why I would like to grant provisional recognition to non-cost institutions that we do not yet know and to institutions that have recently had training of insufficient quality. Then we can intervene more quickly if this is necessary. Let me stress this: it is a limited, small group in the private market. We recognize that group from the State of Education. Such provisional recognition shall be granted for a period of one and a half years. If it is found in the first year that there is insufficient quality or if the training has not started, provisional recognition shall be withdrawn. If there is sufficient quality and whether training is started, there is automatic recognition for an indefinite period of time. So it's not a message, it's a good message. There is no question of administration and bureaucracy, but of earned trust: you show that you are worthy of trust. If it appears that training has not been provided for one year, the training may be terminated automatically. This is done through the Central Register of Vocational Training (CREBO). This can give a good and reliable picture of active training. Students and prospective students should be able to rely on that. This measure thus also ensures a certain continuity of actual training and thus a certain basic quality. Let me outline two cases in which provisional recognition provides a solution to the problem outlined. Suppose we have a private institution with a large number of MBO courses. On the basis of marketing considerations, in order to attract even more students, these courses want to offer, while perhaps they do not intend to actually carry out those programmes at all. These are put in a nice glossy, because people think this is attractive and there will be more students. Then the application may be in order on paper, but it is not possible for the inspection to supervise, because there are no students registered, while students can be tempted. Then I come to the second example. If an institution applies for a diploma, it can fully satisfy the legal requirements on paper. In practice, however, it sometimes appears that an institution does something quite different in its implementation than it indicated in the application. In doing so, the institution has been wrongly recognised and it is right that this recognition should be withdrawn as soon as possible. Let me stress once again: if I have to do that afterwards, I will be a lot of years away. All these years, the students are wrong to think that they are in a good education. An additional argument, but not the most important, is that it is nice for the inspection to have a clean Central Register of Vocational Trainings, in order to be able to exercise effective supervision. If there are all kinds of training courses that are not given at all, it will be very complicated to step up inspection policy. That costs a lot of planning energy, and so money, and I think that's a shame. Two amendments have been tabled aimed at achieving a level playing field for funded and unpaid education. The problem I have with these amendments is that the suggestion is being made that we are lagging behind in private education, because we are asking for something that we do not ask for from funded education. The proposers do not indicate that we are also imposing a great deal of demands on funded education that we do not impose on unexpensive education. Mr Mohandis mentioned one. It is, for example, a question of macro-efficiency. Private education does not have to meet this requirement. They also do not have to meet the requirement of a wide range of services to ensure that all pupils, including unpopular training, are served. There is no obligation to care for a labour market perspective. In short, it's not that easy to talk about a level playing field, because then you want both to have the same starting position. I think that we have done a good job in the general sense. We've paid for it, and we've paid for it, and we've paid for it, and we've paid for it, and we've paid for it, and we've paid for it, and we've paid for it, and we've paid for it, and we've paid for it, and we've paid for it, and we've If we want everything that applies to the funded education, including the unpaid, then I will come back to the other amendment. Then so should vice versa. On balance, we will eliminate the difference between paid and unpaid. The amendment in part No. 14, to the effect that the automatic termination of registration can only be achieved if there are no participants for three consecutive years, I do not recommend, because it does not correspond to the difference between private and public education. The amendment amends the admission to the system, but does not impose any requirements on the efficiency of learning paths or accessibility for students, such as for funded education. Once again, funded institutions also have all kinds of duties which are not provided for by unpaid education. A period of three years in which education is not provided and there has been no quality control, I really think it is too long. This creates the risk that students wrongly think that the quality is in order. There is a parallel there with the debate we had yesterday. It is not desirable for students to undergo unnecessary training whose quality we cannot guarantee. Once again, I think we agree that quality must always be paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u120	We shall now have Mr Van der Ree's first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u121	I have in my hands the application for diploma-recognition vocational education procedure 1. It's meant for non-cost education. Institutions which do not offer a particular training for one or two years must re-apply. We don't need cost-effective training. These are eight descriptions, models, statutes and copies. They all have to be delivered. That is an enormous bureaucratic burden, an administrative burden. Can they not spend their time and money on education rather than re-applying for recognition after, for example, a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u122	I do not think so, because that means that the institutions no longer have to pay that money, while the inspection has lost more money. I just said that all these training courses should be followed in the planning and direction. It is also not desirable from the point of view of quality control; that is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u123	Uncosted training, which is often closer to the labour market, sometimes does not provide training for one or two years because there is no demand for it on the labour market. Does the Minister not agree with me that this has nothing to do with quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u124	So that can very well occur. I shall base myself on the empirical data from the State of Education of the inspection. This shows that there is a small group of private providers who do not have the quality in order but who may like to continue offering the courses because they can attract students. If that's the argument, I find that undesirable. I believe that Mr Van der Ree's reasoning is based too much on the importance of private providers and too little of the quality assurance we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u125	The word or word combination "private providers" says that this is indeed something of the market. As a government, you must come from a very good house to interfere with that. This is certainly true if the government, the minister, wants to impose heavier demands on the private providers than on the education for which the minister is primarily responsible, namely the public-funded education. The Minister is all here giving examples of things that private education does not have to meet, such as macro-efficiency and labour market leadership, but those clubs would be crazy if they did not meet them. They are private providers whose students then start working in the companies. I do not understand why the Minister is making this comparison and is now making more stringent demands on the private providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u126	That is precisely the misconception. I do not impose any more stringent requirements on private providers than on paid providers. We make different demands, but not in terms of quality. Quality and quality management are crucial elements in any form of education. This is particularly true of the Dutch system. We have funded education and non-cost education. There are more freedoms for private education, but not for quality, and that is what we are talking about. Again, I find more or less out of place here. It is not a level playing field in which both have exactly the same rights. They have different rights and obligations, but this is precisely where I think it is in the interests of students. I reason for the interest of students when I say that I do not want them to take long courses the quality of which is not guaranteed. That is all the more true when I add up how much effort it takes me to close an institution that offers poor training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u127	I would like to look at, for example, the denial of the right to examination or the provision of training. The Minister himself sent a table about this to the Chamber. Indeed, I see a very limited difference between non-costed institutions in 2015 and 2013. Why is the Minister making such a far-reaching proposal? No students for a year really means they're screwed after that. It could mean that private trainers have to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u128	It is about the quality of education. I do not want us to have any idea of the consequences if this happens for three years. In my opinion, it is a matter of principle. You want the quality of both institutions to be in order. I have an overview of the commitments and the limitations that apply to funded and unpaid education. Perhaps that is helpful, because one can see in it where the differences are. I'll have the overview sent through my staff in the room. In my opinion, it is not a question of whether one or the other is better or has more or less rights. There are two systems that need to exist side by side. If education is not provided in a period of three years while there is no quality control, then that is what the amendment No. This means that there is no quality control for three years. From the guarantee of quality and from the perspective of students, that is too long a period for me. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 14. I would also advise against the amendment to item No. 15 for the same reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u129	I'm going a long way with the Minister. It is an incredibly tough inconvenience that there are some training courses from private providers who so persistently do not want to deliver quality. That's very frustrating. Can't the minister think of something that won't hurt the good guys? There are so many incredibly good providers who really do not deserve this, who would like equal treatment and who also deal with it in an incredibly honest way. Isn't it possible to somehow remove the rotten apples from the basket?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u130	I'd like to do that. That is exactly what I have been looking for; I just wanted to say that to Mr Van der Ree and Mr Rog. Of course, there are a lot of private providers that are doing well. It is not at all a question of making private education more difficult. I see that there are a lot of good private providers, which also fit the market, which is also in demand. However, we have repeatedly noted in the State of Education, which is generally taken very seriously by the Chamber, that the unpaid education is worse than the paid education, although it is indeed only a small group. Non-cost education scores significantly worse, so quality and quality assurance can be strengthened there. We often do this through legislation. We are not making the legislation for the general group that is doing well; we are making it so that we can deal with the rotten apples in the basket. The institutions that are doing well will not, in my view, suffer from this, because they will not apply this reasoning in this way. The examples I have given relate in particular to the institutions aimed at trying to attract as many students as possible, without guaranteeing the quality of education. I have a further question from Mr Beertema concerning the reduction of sanctions. He asks how I am going to proceed in this respect and what that will mean for those MBOs who are enrolled in a training course whose rights will be deprived after a period of about six months. An institution shall be informed well in advance of a possible withdrawal of rights. There is a careful procedure for this. The rights waiver procedure shall be preceded by a warning path. The institutions have three months to a year to improve quality and they know that insufficient improvements can deprive them of their rights. When determining the date of the withdrawal of rights, account shall be taken of the fact that already registered students must be able to complete the training within a reasonable period of time, as we do in other cases where there are students who have not yet completed their studies. But from the moment these rights are taken, no new students can enter. I came to the end of my reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u131	I note that the Minister has also discussed all the amendments, so we now need the second term of the Chamber. Speaking time varied somewhat in the first period. Those who had less than six minutes in the first term now get two minutes. If you had more, you'd have three minutes. The key points of this debate are now clear, as I say as a listening chairman. Members do not have to, but they may use their second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u132	Mr. Chairman. I thank everyone for the congratulations for my first plenary contribution. I thank the Minister for her reply and for her response to our amendments. I want to make something right first. We have discussed a more level playing field in the first term. Indeed, we agree that a level playing field within this legislative proposal is not possible, hence a more level playing field. That is what the two amendments I tabled together with Mr Rog of the CDA are based on. I would just like to touch briefly on our two amendments in response to the Minister's response. First of all, the amendment on item No. 14, the pause amendment. In an interruption, I indicated that this is a considerable administrative burden for training. Eight annexes need to be completed and this time could be better spent in education. The Minister said that a small number of training courses are out of order. Then I would say: see if these training courses can be dealt with in a certain way, and do not allow all private educational institutions to be the victims by imposing an obligation on them to apply again after one year or something like that. We also propose to go from one to three years. That's a minor change, so no world of difference. The amendment in part No. 15 is about the recognition of one and a half years. We still believe that education A cannot be punished if there is a problem in education B. The same does not apply to non-cost education. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the three or four other amendments I think. For example, Mr Mohandis also had one on a more level playing field. The minister said it's two-and-a-half. I can well imagine that, but I can also imagine that in that case the Minister will leave to the Chamber the assessment of all the amendments based on a more level playing field, or that she will discourage them all. In my view, the Minister did not do that in her first term. I find that an interesting fact. Perhaps the Minister could come back to that in her term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u133	Mr. Chairman. There remains a difference of opinion between the Chamber and the Minister on a number of points. I would like to say once again that there is a difference between private and funded education. The Minister gave an overview of this. So that's clear. However, we must have a very thoughtful and well-founded reason to intervene in private education, because that is not for nothing private. For example, the Minister said something about the number of withdrawals in 2015 from the right to examine or the right to provide training. I see that this is the case with zero training in non-cost education and seven in funded education. In short, I do not understand the Minister's concern, nor the extra high bar for private institutions. We should be overjoyed with them, for example, because they are the ones who have an eye for fluctuations in the labour market. So allow these institutions room, especially if that space is given to the funded education. So I really don't understand this. I shall confine myself to this point. I look forward to reviewing the Minister's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister. It is a difficult debate and we are going to weigh everything carefully. I do not have any comments in substance, but I do realize that I failed to congratulate my new colleague, Mr Van der Ree, on his maiden speech. That happened after I, after his fine warm words about freedom of expression and freedom and so on, found that I cannot co-sign any amendments with him, which means that the entire coalition is excluding my group. I would like to say that, but I would like to offer him my sincere congratulations and welcome him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr. Chairman. It was a good debate, with many amendments being tabled last minute. So it's gonna be a bit of work this weekend to make a final weighing. Much has been said about the right of complaint: funded or non-costed, a more level playing field. I welcome the overview we have just received from the Minister. It clearly sets out the rights and obligations. We will give a serious assessment of all the amendments tabled on extending the right of complaint, i.e. applying the right of complaint to the non-costed institution. This concerns, on the one hand, the proposals made by Mr Van der Ree and Mr Rog and, on the other hand, Mr Van Dijk's amendment. Mr Van der Ree spoke of an amendment I tabled, but that was not an amendment tabled by Mr Mohandis, but an amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijk. We had a good discussion about the school-cost policy. I am pleased that the Minister has clearly explained why the Bishop/Rog amendment (34347, No. 11) on the education agreement is not sufficient and that the amendment tabled by me and Mr Van Meenen (34347, No. 10) it guarantees exactly as you should. I am pleased that the Minister leaves this amendment to the House's discretion. We look forward to a majority in favour of this proposal. Mr Van Meenen will table a motion on a national complaint line. That is an important point. When the debate just started in the Interrupt debate between several colleagues and the Minister, I had the impression that we are doing something leading to a national complaint line. Of course it is different in the po and vo, so I would like a little more clarification from the Minister: what was already there, what is being proposed and what is the rural nature of it? That must be clear as far as I'm concerned. I look forward to the motion that Mr Van Meenen will table and which I have co-signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and commenting on the amendments. I think there is a missed opportunity with regard to the amendment we have tabled. Wide is the discontent about accountability, controlism, the accumulation of accountability and control mechanisms. There is now a specific opportunity to invest one small part, namely the determination of professional costs, somewhere effective, one-off and one-off, but no, there must be two more elements: the education agreement and the discussion with the participation council. I am really sorry that this is understood by the Minister in this way. In the last six months, I call on her to make a great effort to bring the broom through all kinds of double-control mechanisms and devices in order to achieve a clear, clear and generously framed field of education based on the confidence of the participants in education. I would very much like to assist with that. It would be nice if the Minister would show understanding for this cry of hearts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u137	That is a cry of hearts that is very appealing when Mr Bishop speaks of "confidence in'. That is exactly what I and Mr Van Meenen have proposed. It is about trust in students and the confidence that they come to a good balance with directors. If Mr Bishop, together with the Minister, wants to pull some sort of dust comb through all kinds of rules, I will tell him that this was his chance. He has not tabled an amendment to reduce or delete, for example, the number of consent rights. Why didn't he make such a proposal? This was the possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u138	Let me first turn to the first point that Mr Mohandis raises, namely 'confidence in'. No, it's actually the ultimate distrust. You remove the final responsibility from the executives who, by requiring consent, you invest in the participation. That is such a fundamental error of thought. I understand that, but I would like to invite them to think about it. This amendment is an ultimate lack of trust. Mr Mohandis understands that we will not support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u139	It's not so much about thinking about the left. Previous proposals to regulate the right of consent have been carefully adopted by both the left and the right. I look forward to voting on Tuesday. What it is asking for, however, is for Mr Bishop to think about whose education it belongs to. Education does not belong to directors, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u140	No, I'm not. Of course, we'll find each other in that. But administrators are involved and there are several sections that make education together. All these sections have their own responsibility. We should not leave the custard and the soup in one plate at the same time. I've used that image before, but that's a really distasteful thing to do. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u141	Before proceeding with custard and soup, Mr Van Meenen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr. Chairman. I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van der Ree on his report. I have no excuses like Mr Beertema; I can only argue my age as an argument, just a senior moment. But heartfeltly and very welcome in our midst! To Mr Bishop, I would like to say a great deal about what he has said here, but he has had stronger moments. I asked the Minister another question about the recognition of diplomas in non-expensive courses. I had asked the Minister to look again at simplification of the current legislation in this area. Small suppliers in particular have huge problems here. My question was whether she would agree to that. We have talked extensively about the internal complaints committee or a national complaints committee. The Minister said that he did not want to give it a legal framework. I welcome Mr Van Dijk's amendment, but I am sure that I will table another motion which does not contain a legal commitment but which establishes the promotion of a national complaints committee. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is no possibility of moving to an independent national complaints committee after a complaint procedure at an MBO institution itself;]] [[Whereas there is already a national complaints committee in primary and secondary education;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the establishment of a National Complaints Commission for the MBO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34347-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u143	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. I think this law is a step forward, but it is not yet complete. After the adoption of a number of amendments, this law can become perfect. I refer in particular to the amendments to the documents. 12, 13, 16 and 17. The purpose of these amendments is to implement the complaints system also for non-cost institutions, to make the opinion of the Complaints Commission binding, to set up a national complaints committee and to ensure that no directors can sit on the Complaints Committee. After all, it would really be a bit of a case of the butcher who approves his own meat. Nobody wants that! There was still a disagreement about the school fees. I have two practical questions. Is it true that this month the Chamber will receive the regulation on school expenses as announced with Princess Day? I like to get clarity, because I honestly believe that I get questions from education from people who want to know how this arrangement is going to work. One desires clarity. My second question is: do I get a response to the examples I gave in the first term, for example from student Rob who did the chefs training? He had to buy over $2,000 worth of stuff. Does the Minister still think that this is normal and, if not, what is she going to do about it? I had a motion aimed at limiting school costs to voluntary contributions. On second thought, I'm going to make a bill for that. Then a motion is now premature. I do have another motion. I ask for clarification on the interpretation of the Education and Vocational Training Act. It would please the Minister if she embraced that motion. The Education and Vocational Training Act states that the student must be able to follow the training without thresholds, but we see in practice that all kinds of costs are required. That is why I have tabled the following motion, which is very kind. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article 8.1.4 of the Education and Vocational Education Act states that registration for a training cannot be made conditional on financial contributions other than tuition or training fees;]] [[Whereas MBO schools should provide the basic equipment necessary to direct the student to a diploma;]] [[noting that MBO schools nevertheless charge school fees to students for matters necessary for the training;]] [[also noted that 30% of the school costs of parents play an important role in the choice of training;]] [[calls on the Government to seek, in the short term, legal advice on the correct interpretation of Article 8.1.4 of the Education and Vocational Education Act and to share this opinion with the Chamber before 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34347-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u144	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I understand the Minister can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u145	That has not been the case since that last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u146	The minister doesn't have a copy of the last motion yet. Perhaps Mr Van Dijk has one copy left? I think that's the most practical thing to do. I see that's the case. That's nice. Then the Minister can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u147	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the question of bureaucracy and the administrative burden. Mr Van der Ree, Mr Bishop and Mr Van Meenen spoke about this. That's a constant focus. It is not for nothing that we give to every law we make to what the administrative burden is and to whom it applies. As part of the coalition agreement, we carried out a dust comb operation. Many teachers, students and students have done so themselves. What you notice is that a lot of regulations add up. One of my greatest frustrations of recent years is that there are still ideas about what is not right; about the inspection and the Minister's not. This while in practice it appears that there can be much more, and the regulation is often less oppressive; certainly national regulation. Often there is a policy of domes and boards that makes the regulation feel like it's a bitch. This does not alter the fact that we have to take responsibility. So I am always prepared to look again at simplifying the rules. Mr Meenen made a specific point. I will make sure that I respond to that specific point. I will take with me what we have done in recent years in the field of the MBO, I say to the spokesmen of the VVD and the SGP. The majority of the Chamber has received information on this before, but often framed in educational-wide letters. Let me briefly mention it. Perhaps it is good to say something about the amendments to the Nos. 14 and 15 by Mr Van de Ree and others. The amendment in part No. 14 means that participants may not be registered for three years in a row. In the paid education system, registration is cancelled when pupils are no longer registered, but when pupils are actually enrolled again. We have to, because we have to meet all kinds of other requirements. Schools must be obliged to respond to employers' wishes. That doesn't apply to non-cost education. That is why I continue to believe that, if there is no education for three years and there is no quality control, the quality of education is not good, from the point of view of funded and non-paid education. That remains to my judgement, namely that the amendment should not be recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u148	I say to Mr Rog: interrupt once, because the subject has been discussed for quite some time now. But you disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u149	The minister's gonna talk in three years. If she means it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u150	Sorry, it's one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u151	We were talking about the difference between the training courses. Would it be real to do it in the same way as for the funded education? If there are students again, the situation will live again. If we do so, we may be able to table a new amendment or amend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u152	It is precisely in funded education that other requirements have to be met. I do not think it is logical to apply exactly the same reasoning. I have said before that this is about risk institutions, which you can then advertise for a very long time with all kinds of training courses that may never be offered at all. It is not possible to do this in the funded education system, because there is always a test of macro-efficiency to be carried out. They simply test in a different way whether these training courses should actually be given. So you could say that this is an alternative to that. The amendment in part No. I also continue to dissuade 15, but I would like to stress that it is not a question of a provision of the law, but rather of a provision of the law. So we do not need, I say in particular to Mr Van der Ree, to harass all training courses with paperwork, because it only applies to training programmes where there is insufficient quality. We want to make sure that new training courses applied for in practice meet the quality requirements. If we have no doubt about that, it's not a problem. It's a preliminary recognition, so it's not all that heavy. Perhaps that will help to weigh my opinion on that amendment differently. I would advise against that amendment, because I do not need to ask all the institutions to meet additional requirements. I can focus on risk institutions that have already offered training of insufficient quality in the past, so we now want to make sure that their new training is of good quality. In practice, these are unreliable training courses. That is exactly what Mr Beertema asked: to remove the rotten apples from the basket. We will not apply it to training programmes where this is not necessary. Mr Van Dijk has asked whether I should like to comment on his examples. No, because in part I have already mentioned these examples in my own letters. We also know them all from JOB. They are examples that are not good and that need to be addressed, and that is what my policy is focused on. I am not tempted to go into all these concrete examples. We've already done that extensively. With their motion, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Mohandis want to promote the establishment of a national complaints committee. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. I have already said that 38 institutions have already joined an external complaints committee. So that's an external national committee. Maybe I didn't say that clearly enough. This is done on a voluntary basis, as in primary and secondary education. I would like to encourage the other MBO institutions to join in on a short-term basis. If I may consider the motion in this way, I see it as an incentive for policy and leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u153	Judge Room, I'm sure you'll be pleased with that, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u154	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but you should always be careful when a ruler says "if I may read it like that" and "if I may interpret it like that." This national complaints committee, which apparently already exists, is now coming out of the top hat. I looked at the website of the Ministry of Education to see which national complaints committees are available. At least this one isn't there. So I have no idea what I say yes to when I hear that committee already exists. At the heart of the motion is the establishment of a national complaints committee, as is the case in primary and secondary education. If there is, then the Minister is right. If not, I mean my motion as I explained and not as the Minister did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u155	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u156	Mr Van Meenen referred to primary and secondary education. I now join with my argument. What we're going to do is the same as in primary and secondary education. I note that we may have gone further than Mr Van Meenen thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u157	It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u158	After all, 38 institutions have already joined an external complaints committee. I only failed to appoint it as a national committee in my first term. I said there's an external complaint committee. I now say that it is a national complaints committee. If the other 30 institutions, which have not yet joined, join us, we have exactly what Mr Van Meenen wants, but that is just like in the vo and po on a voluntary basis. I would like to make an effort to ensure that the 30 institutions that are not yet connected do so. That's how I read the Van Meenen/Mohandis motion. If I can read her like that, I'll leave it to the Chamber. So I do exactly the same as in primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u159	I can't help but assume that. I have not heard the Minister talk about an external complaint committee in the first place. She was talking about the Ombudsline MBO and stuff like that. Whatever. As long as there's a national complaints committee, I'm okay with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u160	I did talk about an external committee. In his motion, Mr Van Dijk asked for legal advice on the correct interpretation of Article 8.1.4 of the Education and Vocational Training Act. I do not think it is appropriate to seek external legal advice. Sometimes the more lawyers there are, the more judgments you get. I would, however, like to say that I would like to reiterate the legal interpretation of this article in the light of the parliamentary consideration of the legislative proposals. That's what the Chamber gets a letter from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you for the commitment. I look forward to the letter with interest. The Minister implicitly acknowledges that there has been a lot of discussion on the issue of school costs. I'm maintaining my motion. I hope that colleagues will support this in order to clarify this. I would like to look forward to the letter, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u162	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u163	What is the final verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u164	If I may interpret the motion that way, the verdict is Chamber. The SP has asked when the arrangement will come. He'll be here in the fall. I announced the arrangement on spending the 10 million on Princess' Day. I refer to the experience of spending the 5 million for this year. This autumn you can see the information. I said earlier that the arrangement will come at the end of the month, but it can also be November. In any case, the Court will have the arrangement this autumn. Perhaps I can answer Mr Van Meenen's question on simplifying the recognition of diplomas a little more precisely. We are already looking at ways of simplifying the procedure for recognition of diplomas. Institutions that have recently applied are questioned about this. The inspection and DUO are working on this. It also examines the possibility of simplifying the application procedure in terms of administrative burden. So, we're already working on it. This brings me to the end of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-29-tweedekamer-9.u165	I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister. The bill will be voted on next Tuesday.
