ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. I also welcome everyone who follows this debate here in the First Chamber and via the livestream on our website, both in the Netherlands and in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. As today, I remember the plenary sitting in this Chamber of more than ten legislative proposals that allowed the great political transition of 10-10-10. From the Statute to the Governor's Regulations, from the WolBES to the Consensus Laws Public Ministries and the Common Court of Justice. It was a very summery day, the last day before the summer recess of 2010. The most remarkable thing was the contributions made in this Chamber by the representatives of the overseas departments of the Kingdom and the great interest of many other people present. There was an atmosphere of interconnectedness and high expectations for the future. Today's debate also marks a special moment. I am sure that the debate will be followed not only by the people who are here today, but also otherwise. This debate is about looking back, but it is also about looking forward. For the CDA Group, interconnectivity within the Kingdom is also at the heart of the matter. This connection also brings with it high expectations; expectations that we may have from each other. My group sees in the Kingdom more than a political relationship. As important as it is, its cement is formed by other things. Also the historical connection alone is not enough. It is about the will to continue to form that Kingdom in the future. This means a focus on cooperation opportunities, whether it be culture, the economy, education or international relations. There is also a constructive attitude on the part of both sides, which is aimed at solving problems, for they are certainly also there, and the willingness to give and receive criticism wherever it is necessary. All this must be done in the knowledge that it is not the parliamentarians and the governments of the Kingdom, but its inhabitants, whether they are on one side or the other side of the ocean. The evaluation of 10-10-10 mainly concerns the structure of the three public bodies on the one hand and the autonomous countries on the other. My contribution follows that classification. I should immediately like to say that my group regrets that the government has not been prepared to evaluate the new political structure as such. The commitment made in part to the CDA relates to this. I would like to ask the Minister's response to this. My group's contribution to the Caribbean Netherlands covers seven points, which I shall deal with in turn. The first is the title: from legislative restraint to legislative necessity. My group has always supported legislative restraint towards the CN islands. The Dutch legislation should not apply by default, but only where this is expressly provided for. Specific legislation shall be adopted where appropriate. Despite the good intentions, however, the Dutch legislative machinery appears to be the starting point. This is also apparent from the cabinet response to the Five Years report. The Dutch legislation is the standard and only deviates from it if necessary. There is also something else: the restraint that has been agreed only applies for a period of five years and, implicitly or explicitly, Dutch legislation is always the final goal. In practice, the administrative and administrative attention required by the regulations on the islands is often disproportionate. Responding to the consultations alone takes up valuable time, not to mention the execution! This doesn't do the law any good either. My group has doubts as to whether we are on the right track with this. I do not want to go into the anecdotal examples of building regulations on insulation and material use. It goes much deeper. Legislative restraint, my group is not radical enough and the five-year period is not enough. My group is in favour of a change of heart. Instead of legislative restraint, the principle of legislative necessity should apply. It must be regulation based on the rationality, the specific wishes and needs of the islands themselves. It must be a regulation tailored to the island in question, even if it is adopted in The Hague. Differentiation should not be shunned. In fact, it should be the starting point. My group does, however, feel some openness in the cabinet response to this idea. Can the Minister go along with this? Already in the debate on 10-10-10, my group has made a commitment to consider in the evaluation whether the rules on the CN islands can be simplified. This proposal is in line with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u3	I personally think it is a sympathetic thought from the CDA Group. It is also very much in line with my own belief that this legislative restraint should be given greater importance. In Mrs Van Bijsterveld's proposal, I do not wish to give that a legal basis. This may still be reflected in her speech. Would she feel that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u4	I would certainly feel for that, and more than just the legislative restraint so conceived.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u5	That makes two of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u6	It might be good to think on this point for a moment, because it is an important approach. How does Mrs Van Bijsterveld see the risk that the wording 'legal necessity' would be the same as the 'legal restraint'? After all, you can ask yourself, on every subject that comes along, for example, an improvement in education, whether you should not be reluctant about that in the Caribbean Netherlands. But when we find something necessary here, it is quickly felt that it is necessary there too. In other words, how do you prevent it from continuing to function with another word as the same mechanism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u7	That's a good question. I guess you'll never be able to prevent it altogether eventually, unless it's a legally enforceable obligation. If you agree and anchor this as a principle, you always have a benchmark to check in concrete cases whether the principle is met. This is similar to subsidiarity or other important principles of regulation in constitutional law. So you can't completely prevent it, but it can help to bring about a tilting of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u8	I like to think about that because I think we need more than a new word. Indeed, there is a need for a change in the culture of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u9	It's good to hear that. I'm sure we'll get back to you in the course of this day. I was almost at the end of this section on legislative restraint/needs. I'll add another sentence. When we talk about the legislative machinery, let us not forget that the total number of CN residents is about 21,000. For the individual islands, these numbers are 15,000, 3,600 and 1,800 people. Of course, we have to take that into account. Then an order principle is of great importance. I come to my second point. This is titled: from National Representative to Commissioner Caribbean Netherlands. In recent years, however, it has become clear how important the role of the State representative is. In my group's view, that name has not been chosen so conveniently in retrospect. It's a two-way street. The name gives the impression that the official represents only the Empire on the islands. This leads to an incomprehension and misunderstanding of experience. The intention was always for the National Representative to be a link between the Empire and the islands, over and over; and that is what he is in practice. The name Commissioner Caribbean Netherlands expresses this well. Does the Minister feel that, with the planned changes to WolBES, the name of the State representative in that sense should be baptized? In other words, is the Minister prepared to promote such a name change? The National Representative has an important role as advocate of the islands in The Hague. This new name also better expresses the nature of the position vis-à-vis the departments in The Hague. How does the Minister exercise his directing role when it comes to raising awareness of the position of this official in the professional departments? My group welcomes the fact that the cabinet wishes to give the National Representative a more explicit role as an outpost to cabinet policy in the CN islands. My group reads that in such a way that the State representative is the crystallisation point where the various departmental intentions come together and that the State representative is the spokesperson for them in the direction of the island authorities. Can the Minister confirm this? This is important from the point of view of good communication, avoiding misunderstandings and preventing unnecessary seizure of island administrations. My third point is that the BES do not exist. I have so far carefully avoided talking about the BES. The BES do not exist; Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba do. Those are different islands. The Statute lays the basis for differentiation between the Netherlands and the islands. There is more and more eye for this differentiation, but less for the differentiation between the islands. My group welcomes the government's emphasis that the islands should now focus on practical solutions to concrete problems; we are also positive about the direction of thinking. When it talks about differentiation, does the government also have a target of differentiation between the islands? Such a differentiation is important in the practical sense of the word 'implementing', think of practical cooperation relations not only between the islands, but also as suggested by the cabinet between the islands and one or more of the autonomous countries. Does the Minister also see room for differentiation in the legislation between islands or for leaving tasks to island authorities according to ambition and administrative power? Does the Minister see the differentiation between the islands as desirable in developing the socio-economic plans of the islands? Do the multiannual programmes also play a role in this? I come to my fourth point, with the title: wise governance. By that, I mean that a top-down approach meets a bottom-up approach. Significant progress has been made in recent years in the fields of education and health care. That's good news. The first acquaintance with the Netherlands in the new relationships, however, has not gone smoothly. On Bonaire, for example, the construction of a large prison in the centre of Kralendijk, the construction of the office of the RCN and the presence of the Tax Administration. On the other islands it was similar. In doing so, the Netherlands immediately showed itself to be untouchable, while the cost of living rose and poverty increased. The cabinet rightly mentions disappointments in execution. From the reality of the islands, it would have been better to look quietly at what was most urgent about improvement per island and then to implement it gradually; as it were a practical task force approach. This could also have prevented the accumulation of cost-enhancing effects on residents, which did not face real opportunities for income acquisition. Are the proposals put forward by the cabinet to improve collective provisions to this effect? Does this also apply to the impetus which the government intends to give to socio-economic development? In any case, the proposals sound positive to my group. For the future, my group envisages a route in which a top-down and a bottom-up approach come together. Rolling out a Dutch policy to use a new cliché term isn't working, and of course a bottom-up approach doesn't work either. The multiannual programmes are a useful and important instrument. The space for differentiation, as we have suggested, can also be given a place in this. Does the Minister also see the multiannual programmes as such? The CDA Group has the idea that the share of central government in the development of multiannual programmes is quite strong. Can the Minister comment on the balance between central and decentralised in this respect? The CDA Group is calling for an end to the deadlock on the question of the acceptable level of provision and the minimum standard of living. My fifth point, good governance on the islands. Any public administration, including that on the islands, must be good governance. In order to realise their share of the board, governance and stability are needed by the island authorities. The cabinet considers the capacity of the islands to be too limited by definition. Can the Minister explain this? Does the Minister see that the island authorities actually call on the European Netherlands when it comes to carrying out projects that exceed their own expertise or capacity for action? Is there mutual trust in that? If not, how does the Minister see this developing? The large number of unfulfilled official vacancies on Bonaire and Statia is worrying. How does the cabinet intend to contribute to its fulfilment? What does the cabinet mean when it speaks in the cabinet response about the duties of citizens? An appeal must also be made on the directors and island council members themselves with regard to good governance: noblesse obligige. The new relationships in the Kingdom mean a new way of politics and governance. This involves a professional relationship between administration and administration. This includes institutionalised integrity care. How does the Minister see this in practice? My sixth point, though: structure. A number of structural issues have already been raised above. The cabinet mentioned the change of the WolBES and the FinBES and indicated some directions. What else does this process look like? Does the cabinet take on board the commitment to my group on the functioning of dualism? Is the Minister also prepared to take my earlier proposals with you in the modification of the WolBES? Finally, the question of voting rights. My group is pleased that the government has agreed to create a separate electoral college for the right to vote in the First Chamber, ensuring that only Dutch people vote in favour of the election of the First Chamber. This construction also ensures that residents of the islands fulfilling the further requirements are entitled to vote in favour of the island councils. In doing so, my group can contribute to the further processing of the relevant legislation. I now come to the second part of my contribution. This concerns the countries of the Kingdom. I would like to raise three points: strong institutions, the dispute settlement and the guarantee function of the Kingdom. I'll start with the strong institutions. The starting position of Curaçao and Saint Martin were not such that the autonomous status within the Kingdom was self-evident. The First Chamber has insisted on the establishment of the so-called cooperation arrangement guaranteeing plans of approach as a condition for agreeing to the transition. That was to prevent a false start from going far into the future. Unfortunately, after six years and two extensions of the cooperation arrangement, the improvement plans have not yet been implemented. My group therefore considers it very important that the Minister has decided on a further period of extension. It is good that the Progress Committee provides that Curaçao has realised the implementation of the plans at the beginning of the new term. Unfortunately this is not yet the case for Sint-Maarten, although it is good news that new momentum has been put in place. If my group understands correctly, according to the St Maarten Progress Committee, it was mainly a matter of priority and finance to make the necessary improvements to the police and to the prison system. Apparently, the priority setting has improved, but what about the finances? And what about the real possibility of fulfilling the many, many unoccupied posts in the police and prison system in a short time? The Minister hasn't reported on that yet. Does the Netherlands, for example, contribute to the necessary finances? If so, is that in kind or otherwise? How will the Minister prevent a possible relapse when the cooperation arrangements have been worked out? This is an important question. These are core tasks within the rule of law. The relevant progress committees note that they are only concerned with the infrastructure side of the facilities to enable the services. They are not concerned, as they themselves say, with "the quality of the functioning and effectiveness of the services." How does the Minister see these matters now and in the longer term? Unfortunately, the cabinet response to the evaluation of the Consensus-rich legislation is awaiting us. My group hopes to be able to discuss this with the government in detail at a later stage. But there are a few things my group would like to say about this already. The picture emerges that there are also delays in the field of police. I quote from the summary of the evaluation: "This concerns the implementation of further regulation, the exchange of information, the full (formative) strength of the corps and management." The main cause here is again called finance. This is extremely worrying for the rule of law. My group calls for a solution-oriented response to the cabinet response. The same applies to the problems at the Common Court of Justice. It cannot be that the Court's security of existence is threatened by financial difficulties. Can the Minister provide an insight into the actions taken by the Cabinet to ensure that the countries meet their commitments? Here too, my group is calling for a solution-oriented cabinet response involving not only the financing problems but also the whole financing system of the Court. Does the Minister intend to promote a cabinet response to both these issues, police and justice? Under the heading'strong institutions', my group would like to underline the appreciation of the various Colleges of Financial Supervision (CFTS), although their findings are not always positive, and for the proper functioning of accompanying institutions such as the Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman. I come to the second point, the dispute settlement. I would like to draw attention to the procedure of CFT schemes, namely that of the reinforced crown appeal. The debate on the dispute settlement required by Article 12a of the Statute has accelerated. Last year's frictions between countries were certainly a catalyst. In my group's view, the IPKO has then played a very constructive role in this discussion. My group is really pleased that the cabinet is now taking steps to reach a final settlement of disputes. The draft law, which has now been submitted for consultation, will be judged on its merits when it reaches us. We can see that there is a difference of opinion between the Caribbean countries on the one hand and the Netherlands on the other regarding the scope of the arrangement, its bindingness and the dispute settlement body on the other. These things are, of course, somewhat related. I would like to make a few comments on the dispute settlement body and the nature of the review. In essence, the difference between the Netherlands and the other countries according to the current state of affairs amounts to a choice for the Council of State with a non-binding role versus a choice for a court, the Supreme Court or special college, with a binding ruling. From the start of this discussion, my group has mentioned an alternative option. This option could well bring parties together and also play a truly adequate role in dispute resolution. Where a strict legal college is based on strictly legal disputes and applies strict legality testing, a non-binding judgment is appropriate to administrative-political questions that require an effectiveness review. In reality, the disputes involved will rarely have either one or the other character, but a mixed nature of legal issues and political-administrative aspects. A strict provision of legality, as the islands advocate, can soon turn out to be a cat in the bag. This calls for a judicial review of the legal dimension of a dispute and a non-binding judgment where the administrative-political assessment is central. This calls for a type of provision as currently provided for in the CFT schemes, namely a reinforced crown appeal: a procedure for the Council of State, where the legality assessment is binding and where the efficiency elements can be justified to deviate. The advantage of such a procedure is that the wheel does not need to be reinvented. It is a proven method. This procedure applies not only to the previous CFTs but also in 2010 was also chosen for the Cooperation Arrangement plans of approach and, if I am not mistaken, twice in 2015 with Aruba and Sint-Maarten. I give this consideration to the countries, but I also ask the Minister why he did not choose this option. My third and final point with regard to the countries is the guarantee function. Much has been said about the guarantee function of the Kingdom in recent times. My group attaches great importance to the guarantee function. As the government response for the BES islands refers to the Netherlands as a larger link to cope with restrictions of all kinds, so is the Kingdom for the countries. Good consultation and cooperation are, of course, paramount for us. The effect of the guarantee function when it is at issue must be done with tact and policy, but it must be done in the opinion of my group. Finally. An important step was taken on 10-10-10: the Kingdom has entered a new phase in political terms. The Netherlands Antilles have been dismantled. Two autonomous countries and three public bodies have replaced them. But how should we look at these terms at the beginning of the 21st century? Terms such as "autonomy" and "public body" are guiding points for thinking, but we should not absolute them. Reality requires relationships and collaborative models that escape those typologies a little bit. Flexible cooperation based on mutual commitment and mutual trust is essential if we are to achieve good practice. That is what I wish the Kingdom for the coming years, in the interests of its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u10	It has already been recalled, a delegation from this Chamber has made an inspiring work visit to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. One of the nice things about such a visit, at a sloppy 8,000 kilometers from the Binnenhof, is that all kinds of The Hague party political divisions suddenly become less pregnant. The spokesmen of the PVV and the Christian Union seem to have a very animated conversation with each other. The D66 spokesperson still acknowledges the ability to learn from the CDA's negotiating tactics. The Senator of the Party for Animals appears to share her love for small-scale agriculture with the SGP spokesperson. I immediately acknowledge that these endearing consequences of such a far-off journey are not an independent reason to cherish our Caribbean islands, but it has been well taken into account in the present time of political polarization and mild hysteria; of which note! Often we can already see for ourselves how something will be. Whether it's a summer holiday or the more serious work, promoting political goals such as prosperity and security, the picture is already colored in advance. But when the time comes, there's a lot of disappointment. Reality is disappointing. Despite a thorough review, prosperity remains behind and crime and insecurity remain high. Maybe we were expecting too much, or there were opposing expectations. Tense expectations were and are also visible in the cooperation between the European and Caribbean Netherlands. Preliminary draft: we cannot yet draw definitive conclusions after five years of Caribbean Netherlands. However, it is clear that there is work to be done. And then, first of all, we need to work on realistic mutual expectations, for a few reasons. There are, of course, major cultural differences between the European and Caribbean Netherlands. This manifests itself in differences in languages, customs, political culture, etc. We all know that, but it is a constant exercise to calculate with that. In addition, the Caribbean Netherlands is economically different, with rather one-sided economies. This can also prevent good cooperation. Directly linked to this is a difference in public finances. In the Caribbean Netherlands, there is sometimes even a lack of capital power to invest in the basic infrastructure. Because of all these differences, we have to temper our expectations in advance. For although much has been achieved in areas such as care, education, safety, taxation and infrastructure, there are still many essential issues. I am thinking very specifically of the quality of care and education. The problematic situation for children and young people must be addressed in a well thought-out and appropriate way. When it comes to children and young people, I come first to education. "The class has its own soul," wrote Theo Thijssen, and probably so is a good school. Soul depends largely on the teachers and school management. Unfortunately, in the Caribbean Netherlands we see a large flow of teachers, and the school leadership is still far from always in order. As a result, schools do not meet the basic quality and pupils' care is inadequate. Care for students with cognitive problems or behavioural problems or limitations is also inadequate. The negative impact on pupils is compounded by family problems caused by the weak economic position of parents and by high cost of living. Because of this parents sometimes work too much and there is often too little attention for children, so that children live on the streets and become early streetwise, and that is not what I mean in the positive sense of the word. Result: children get learning disadvantages, are susceptible to addiction and develop a loose sexual morality. Moreover, this also creates unsafe streets, another area in which insufficient profits have been made. On the three BES islands an increase in crime is experienced. The fact that theft is sometimes a survival strategy does not justify this crime, but does indicate how seriously we should take the context in which this crime thrives and flourishes. In different degrees, these social and economic problems are common to all islands, but I am particularly shocked by the conclusion that youth prostitution is increasing especially on Saint Eustatius. On the other hand, it is true that apprenticeship and youth care often lag behind hopelessly.Will the Minister put the child, the younger and the family first and address the problems in a way that includes education, governance, health care and the economy? Of course, the Netherlands is not only responsible for disappointing economic, social and political situations. There were many problems before 2010, and we should not underestimate the enormous impact of the economic crisis and the less stable local government. However, a credible response to the socio-economic crisis must be found. Combating poverty can reduce social problems and help restore confidence between the European and Caribbean Netherlands. So what the government must continue to work on is creating a realistic overall vision of cooperation with the Caribbean, with a view to the Caribbean context and a special focus on youth and family. I'm making some concrete suggestions. Make realistic and concrete arrangements, and communicate with the islanders. This avoids too high expectations and, ultimately, disappointments. Manage the arrangements less departmentally: more cooperation is needed between the responsible ministries and public authorities, here and there. Eye for the local context also means that a unit sausage does not always help. Sometimes a different approach is needed for each country and territory: centrally and jointly regulate what needs to be central, locally what can be local. And why not keep a little more autonomy for the BES islands? Certainly in terms of implementation tasks, a certain degree of freedom of movement can be welcomed, but with greater administrative power and support for the administration. We will also have to continue to work on a decent island administration with good democratic control and less dependence on a strong leader. It is necessary to examine whether the political system can and must be differentiated by island. What is conceivable here, including to increase citizens' involvement in governance, policies and laws? Finally, the Netherlands must share its many knowledge and skills, not only in the political field, but also, through industry, in the fields of infrastructure, entrepreneurship and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr Van Dijk raised a number of important points, including the administrative power of the islands. It is about the role of the island council, the board of directors and so on and the relationship between them. This raises the question of how dualism, which we take as a starting point, works on the islands, on a small scale. Does Mr Van Dijk think in that direction when he says that we need to differentiate more? I'm just trying to focus on where his thoughts are with regard to differentiation for the islands and strengthening administrative power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u12	That is a very fair question. It is not for nothing that I put it up as a question: should we not pay more attention to differentiation? What we consider most desirable and pure here is not necessarily the case for the islands as well. You yourself gave the example of dualism. Given the size of the islands and their composition, we may have to fill in something different from here. Indeed, I put it as a question: is the Minister open to seeking differentiation and, if so, what is conceivable? I'm not entirely out of that for myself, I have to confess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u13	I get that. It's also a tricky trade-off. We try to put checks-and-balances in public administration, for example through dualism, which is not an end in itself. Suppose you start looking for other forms, how do you find the checks-and-balances that prevent an overly monistic alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u14	We fully agree on that. Those checks-and-balances need to stay secure. My question is what is still conceivable of political differentiation within these kinds of principles. Maybe that's less than we'd like. As far as the SGP is concerned, all this contributes to greater clarity about the distribution of tasks and competences, to the alleviation of hardened relationships and to the building of renewed trust. Speaking of poverty, youth problems, prostitution and crime, I would also point out the role that the many churches on these islands can play. The secularisation has not struck on these islands; the vast majority of the population is ecclesiastical. Is the social and moral capital of churches and also of various civil society organisations exploited by the various governments? How can this be further promoted? I will conclude with a plea for greater cooperation and clarity on security objectives, not only in terms of domestic crime and insecurity, but also in terms of regional geopolitical unrest, and the arrival of pseudotourists, drug criminals and other undesirable persons from Venezuela, among others. The Rijksvisum Act will hopefully contribute to unity and predictability in asylum and foreign policy. And that's what's needed. I understand the reluctance and fear of the islands to deter tourists and investors, but hospitality also has borders, namely if stability and security are at stake. To what extent is the Minister reassured that the Caribbean can effectively cope with the security challenges? Is there sufficient cooperation for this? I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. Three years ago, in this Chamber, we had our previous policy debate on kingdom relations. I then started with three motives that we can recognize in Dutch international history and which still today play a role in the relations within the Kingdom and in our international politics: law, faith and trade, i.e. a legal, ideological and economic motive, or the roles of the driver, the minister and the merchant. The legal motive emphasizes the spread of constitutional principles: good governance, correct democratic relations, etc. The ideological motive is about shared values: in the past, the pastor was by mission and mission, and now these are mainly in matters such as humanitarian principles, emancipation and the handling of nature and the environment. The economic motive is about commercial interests or, as our Prime Minister likes to say, making a lot of money together. Ultimately, it is the connection between those three that leads to stable, mutually valued and future-proof relationships. With these three dimensions we also have a suitable lens to look at the evaluation of the new political structure of the Kingdom. How has this worked out in the relationship between the four countries of the Kingdom and how has it worked out on the three islands that have since belonged to the Netherlands? Those questions were raised three years ago, of course, but we now have a number of thorough studies and evaluations on the table which will enable us to see more clearly and to take stock of the situation. In my speech, I will deal specifically with some of the most pressing issues. So I will not discuss the whole range of themes, but I would like to start with the overall picture. As far as my group is concerned, this overall picture is that there has been absolutely progress in a number of areas, particularly in the Caribbean Netherlands. The organisation of the government is better in order. The IRS is functioning better. Education has improved considerably. Access to health care seems to be better, although I will come back to one part of it. I note, however, that a number of ministries have a good deal to do. Good improvement strategies have been developed, and the will and the strength of action have been there to take things forward. In other words, we're on the right track. However, in other areas, such as infrastructure, employment and social security, the backlogs that were there have not been adequately eliminated, there is only limited development prospects and the lack of commitment of the government has led to great disappointment and discontent on the islands at local and national level. No one expected that all the problems would be resolved by 11 October 2010, but the expectation was justified that it would take place more rapidly on a number of themes. And even though there are now the multiannual programmes which are certainly heading in the right direction, the inhabitants of the islands have had to wait a very long time for that. We cannot therefore ignore the observation that the action of the government and of this minister is disappointing in a number of areas which are of the utmost importance to the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands and our sister countries. They had expected more decisive solutions, a more coordinating direction and more binding ability. They also expected that we would be more in line with local needs, as Mrs Van Bijsterveld rightly said. And that is where we are at the heart of the criticism in the evaluation reports and of the dissatisfaction in the Caribbean part of our country and our Kingdom. It is not true that we only read what is not going well in the evaluation reports. At all the points that have been mentioned, we already knew that. On these points, both here and in the House of Representatives, the government has been constantly urged to take action. Why did it take so long before a constitutionally correct solution was found for the right to vote in the Caribbean Netherlands? That was a clear demand from this Chamber. The same applies to the settlement of disputes with the three countries, the role of coordination between the departments and the raising of family allowances, income support and AOV to a viable level. Everything will come, but on a number of points it is really too little too late. That is why I will focus on a number of points on which we would like to see the Minister run a little faster. On these more concrete points, I shall first of all look at the relationship between the four countries of the Kingdom. That is where the legal dimension plays a major role because it concerns the legal guarantees. During our work visit and on previous occasions, delegations of this Chamber have been able to observe that institutions such as the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors and the Council of Law Enforcement are growing in authority and expertise and that they are thus building an important position in the countries that contribute to the growth of the necessary checks-and-balances. This is important because we see the risks of clientelism, corruption and the power of the underworld that can so easily undermine democratic and constitutional structures. We also see the pitfall that you can then do nothing but try to straighten things out, along the line of the Kingdom Government. However, these matters should actually be addressed through the democratic and constitutional structure of the countries themselves. So we take hope from the signs of improvement that we see, but we also ask what the Kingdom Government is doing with the four countries to develop more resilience to these risks. We also note with a positive appreciation that good cooperation is growing in a number of areas, including between the four countries of the Kingdom. When I look at the IPKOs, I have to say that over the years we have found a mode to raise complex issues with each other. These issues have to do with integrity, for example, not only with the governments, but also with the parliaments themselves. However, it may also be a question of developing climate plans, developing the Paris agreement, developing energy plans and making our four countries more sustainable, as a necessary response to prevent the climate effects, in particular, affecting the islands there, both the three countries and the three parts of the Dutch state system, and thus making the islands resilient to the risks. So we see the strength of good cooperation between the four countries, and we also see their parliamentary dimension. In concrete terms, today we are discussing not only the broad evaluation, but also the evaluation of the Consensus Laws. The evaluation committee and the Dutch government believe that the Rijkswet financial supervision works well and that financial management in Curaçao and Sint-Maarten itself has improved over the years. However, the countries have not fully and independently complied with the standards and monitoring will therefore have to continue. My group has a question on the horizon in the Rft that supervision will be withdrawn if the countries comply fully and independently with the standards. The evaluation report states that even after the termination of the Rft there can be a form of supervision and accountability, as is also the case for the Netherlands at EU level. We do indeed see the importance of checks-and-balances, such as external supervision and accountability. That is why we ask the Minister whether he has a shared vision of the future with the Caribbean countries on this issue. Is it also convinced that supervision in any form is desirable, now under the Rft and possibly subsequently under another regime? Or is this still a source of tension and discontent? The government has said to adopt all the recommendations and to submit their elaboration to the National Council of Ministers in early 2016 for decision-making. Will the start of 2016 be 21 June 2016? In other words, has this effect been submitted to the National Council of Ministers? And what does this effect look like? We like to hear it. We are still waiting for the cabinet response to the evaluation of the judicial consensus laws. The report was already sent to us on 8 October last year, so we would like to hear from the Minister why it is taking so long. It is a pity that, during this policy debate, we cannot discuss the government's views on this evaluation. Mrs Van Bijsterveld said that she would be happy to hear it in due course, but I invite the Minister to take an advance and at least respond to this evaluation. For example, what does the government think of the desire expressed by the committee to engage in a fundamental debate on reducing the dominance of the Dutch language in the context of law enforcement and how does it view the "caribisation" of the workforce? And what is the government going to do about the financially too fragile structure of the Common Court of Justice? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I will not say too much about the dispute settlement, because at last there is a proposal from this minister that can be dealt with in Parliament. I note, however, that this proposal differs from the criteria on which the parliaments of the four countries had reached consensus. How does the Minister see that? Is he aware that these criteria will somehow play a role in parliamentary scrutiny, including in this House? Why has he not managed to come up with a proposal that could be supported by the four countries? So, without going into the specific details of a proposal that is not yet on the table, I think it would be good to talk briefly about the framework conditions for the discussion. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to Caribbean Netherlands with which the attention also shifts slightly to the level of values and the economy, of faith and trade. As has been said, there is certainly progress on a number of points, and more good plans are being put in place in the cabinet response to the evaluation. The multiannual programmes at last provide a good basis for less ad hoc and more structural development. Step-by-step, these plans will also have to create more confidence among the population, faith. It is good to see that on Saba and hopefully also on Bonaire, a constructive cooperation has grown between the board and the government, also through the state representative, who can therefore also take on the two-way role. This does not answer the question of whether there is too much fragmentation in national policy. It is mentioned in the evaluation and may still be discussed. Is the government policy sufficiently tailored to local needs? We are seeing progress, but it is really time for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to give more shine to his coordinating role. Let me focus on something concrete. In this house, we've had a few years of disagreement with the VWS Minister about health insurance. More specifically, about the fact that there is no possibility to take out supplementary insurance on Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba. They do not offer insurers because the basic insurance is collectively regulated there. This means that, for example, physiotherapy and dentistry on the islands are uninsurable. To our written questions we get an answer that, frankly, is dripping with cynicism: No, that supplementary insurance is not the responsibility of the government. The differences between people in the European or Caribbean Netherlands arise, and I quote, pay attention: '... because of the choices of residents they make with regard to spending their available income. One can also, if no supplementary insurance is offered, put aside monthly money to pay for this care if at issue. This is therefore a matter of differences which are not unfair in terms of government, but a result of an individual choice which the government does not and does not want to control." How is it an individual choice not to have supplementary insurance if there is no supplementary insurance because it is not attractive for insurers to offer it because the government has collectively regulated the basic insurance? This really seems to me to shove off in optima forma. And then the immediate question arises not only how this is on the VWS field, but also how coordination plays a role here, because it is one-on-one in line with the demand for social security, living standards, income policy and what is more. What does this answer mean by the VWS Minister for the State Secretary for Social Affairs? Can people save for physiotherapy and dental care if the average incomes are lower and the cost of living is higher? In other words, what is this coordinating minister doing to prevent this from working alongside each other? My final point is both concrete and fundamental; it concerns the setting of the social minimum. In the European Netherlands this is related to the basic livelihood. For example, the UWV writes on the website: "The social minimum is the minimum amount you need to live on." That looks like an open door. On Rijksoverheid.nl it says: "You need an amount to support your livelihood. This amount is the minimum social amount." And the Tax Administration also works with standard amounts for subsistence expenses. But when it comes to the Caribbean Netherlands, the government chooses a different reasoning. Yes, as I read in the cabinet response, a social minimum is set, but this is not related to the minimum necessary living, but to the statutory minimum wage. And that legal minimum wage is also not related to basic living but to the economic development that is conditional. The under stand will then have to grow there according to a timeline to be determined, taking into account the incentive to work. My group understands the various arguments, but this raises fundamental questions. How does the government know that the social minimum it wants to set is sufficient to live on? Why does the government choose a different calculation system for the Caribbean Netherlands than for the European Netherlands? There is a differentiation clause, but is it necessary at this point? Is that provision correctly used? Why is the government not ready to objectify what people need to survive in different living conditions, for example, of a family or a single person? And if the government does not know what the standard of living should be, how is it able to fulfil its legal responsibility for the standard of living of its citizens, as laid down in various international treaties and also in the Constitution? And then, if we look at the route, how long are beneficiaries allowed to live below the poverty line now that the government has chosen to gradually increase the under stand to the social minimum? When it comes to the minimum standard of living, an economic motivation, trade, in my group's view, is insufficient, because it is ultimately fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution and in international treaties. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. When we look at the evaluations, we understand the dissatisfaction that sometimes lives in the Caribbean part of our country and Kingdom, but at the same time we conclude that we are at the core on the right track. Major steps have been taken in a number of areas; more structural improvement plans are emerging and cooperation between the island authorities and the government is improving. The question is whether the size of the free allowance is sufficient and whether the island authorities have sufficient freedom of action to use it. At this point there seems to be some light between the vision of the government and that of the island authorities. I would like an explanation of this. For example, can the island authorities also eliminate their backlogs while remaining at uncovered structural maintenance costs? Is the government prepared to objectify this question and investigate what is needed? Law, faith and trade: three motives for our actions in the Kingdom. We note that good legal and legal steps have been taken, but we still have questions that we hope the government will speed up. In economic terms, there are major challenges but also opportunities. And when it comes to the underlying values, we find that there is a risk that they will be faced with legal hairslapping or economic relations. That really deserves even more care and attention, because otherwise the population loses its trust, faith, in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. Since the seventeenth century Caribbean Netherlands, Saint Martin and Aruba, and since the eighteenth century also Curaçao, have been part of our Kingdom. We all know that we have a history there that the European part should not be proud of. I refer, for example, to the time of the slave trade. It would have been a nice thing to say today that I am satisfied with what is happening in the overseas countries, with the inviting attitude that the Netherlands is showing and with the way in which the special public bodies, such as Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba are now called, bear responsibilities. However, much remains to be done before it is done. I am convinced that we all want improvements here. Today is the time to discuss this with the Minister. I hope we can find him by our side in this. I'm making a big leap in history. 40 years ago, the date for Aruba's independence was set. Eventually, in 1986, the island was given separate status, and then in 1991 it was abandoned from full independence. It is clear that the independence of the Netherlands is a much discussed and sensitive issue. On October 10, 2010, almost six years ago, Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin became countries within the Kingdom and Bonaire, Saba and Saint-Eustatius became public bodies. My group's view is that a number of vague agreements were made at the time, which we, but worse still, the people there, are now paying the toll. I should just like to point out the extremely vague concept of 'a level of provision acceptable to the Netherlands', which has not yet been completed, but which has given rise to high expectations. I hope that we will be able to make a number of agreements today that will improve and clarify matters. We all benefit from that. My question to the Minister is: when can we expect a concrete plan in which he gives substance to the concept of 'a level of provision acceptable to the Netherlands'? And more importantly, when will this minister talk to the islands to see with them what form the concept should take? My predecessors just recalled that the committee visited all six islands in April this year. At first glance only the beautiful stands out; the sun that always shines, the beautiful beaches, the sea with the underwater splendor. The tourist staying at the hotel will probably have a very pleasant time, but he will not see that there is great poverty and that more than half of the population lives below the poverty line, that drug and alcohol addiction is widespread and that corruption has also penetrated into politics. That is the other side of the coin, and we must not close our eyes to that. That's something no one can be satisfied with. My question to the Minister: does he think that we are contributing sufficiently to improvements in this area? During the trip we talked to a lot of people. Not only with the administrative colleges and island councils, but also with people who live and work there, for example in health care, in schools, in childcare, the trade union and the Chamber of Commerce. They told us what they encounter in everyday life, what goes well and what doesn't, where a huge pile of bureaucracy causes congestion and what the daily routine is. All in all, in a good week's time, we gained a lot of impressions and obtained the information we are now entering into this debate. I'm gonna walk past the countries first, and then I'm gonna get to the public bodies. Despite the fact that some of the problems are the same, I make this distinction because the responsibilities for the problems are completely different. In the countries, poverty is high, youth unemployment is high. This is reflected in the crime figures. Politics is far from stable, with the exception of Aruba. On St.Maarten we had to deal with five Cabinets since 10-10-10, and on Curaçao they changed six times. Former Prime Minister Gerrit Schotte was sentenced to three years in prison and the absolute tragic low point was the murder of the politician Helmin Wiels who waged the fight against corruption. On the proposal of SP and VVD, there is now a major judicial investigation into the gambling industry and the connection between the upper and underworld on the islands. For this, 22 million euros and 50 detectives have been released. It would be nice if the local politicians themselves would now also look critically at financial trade and walk on the islands and stop corruption. However, it is worrying that we see 300 boys and girls leave for the Netherlands every year for their studies and that we hardly see them return. The young people who have the future and often also have to take care of the change are barely coming back. The stragglers have to get rid of it themselves and lack the highly educated to eradicate corruption. Can the Netherlands do anything about this? On the one hand, you can see that there are a lot of European Dutch police and justice people on the islands and you would say that they are; on the other hand, we are dealing with autonomous countries within the Kingdom and you have nothing to say about it. Nevertheless, the Netherlands is held internationally responsible for the abuses, because the Netherlands, according to the Statute of the Kingdom, has to ensure human rights, legal certainty and good governance. Sending money and manpower alone does not help; there must also be the conviction in the countries themselves that what is happening is simply not possible. At least we have to talk about that. Does the Minister consider that the Netherlands is doing enough or providing assistance to eradicate corruption and effectively implement the Statute? Or does he run into walls he doesn't know how to break? I had prepared myself that I should also talk about the dispute settlement. But during last May's IPKO, the three countries submitted their own proposal, which now leaves two legislative proposals in the Lower House. My group wishes this Chamber a great deal of wisdom and looks forward to the proposal that ultimately comes to us. The last point I want to make on this is that it is now high time to come up with a good regulation. In particular, I would like to comment on the Isla refinery on Curaçao. This mega-polluter's got the island in the hold. It is estimated that 18 people are killed each year and thousands of people are ill. Schools have to close the doors if the wind is wrong. At the same time, it provides employment, and you must not flatten that out. But something must be done. The refinery, formerly owned by Shell, is now operated by a Venezuelan state-owned company and the lease agreement ends in 2019. The moment to make changes. In 2013, my predecessor, Mrs Quick, tabled a broad-based motion calling on our government to consult with the Curaçao government on whether the countries together can mitigate the health damage caused by the presence of the Isla refinery by addressing as much as possible the previous owner and the current user on their responsibility. My question to the Minister is: did Curaçao make use of this offer and, if not, is the Minister prepared to raise this motion again? By the way, the refinery is being reopened in Aruba; I would like to ask the Minister, through the President, if he can bear in mind the advantages and disadvantages of this. I'm going to the public bodies. On 10-10-10 they were chosen to be given this status, and agreements and commitments were made. The SP was not in favour of this structure because it feared that the three islands would be run by ten ministries from the European Netherlands. That fear has come true. Despite the fact that the Minister recently indicated that he was in favour of this situation in a debate with the House of Representatives, I would like him to explain again why he thinks it would be better for the three islands to discuss each of them with ten ministries instead of coordinating them. I would very much appreciate it if he had a clear motivation for it. An evaluation of five years 10-10-10 has been carried out by a committee led by Mrs Spies. There is an image that we cannot be satisfied with. I'm gonna run some numbers: Unemployment at Bonaire 6.4%, of which over 25% were aged between 15 and 25 years, 8.8% on Statia, one sixth were aged between 15 and 25 years. Saba works best, with 2.5% or 23 people. Together, 913 people are involved. For comparison: in the European Netherlands, the unemployment rate is 6.5 and youth unemployment is 11. At least 20% of Bonaire is low-literate and more than half of the population is low-educated. No figures are available for the other islands, but there is no reason to believe that the situation there is different. On Bonaire there are two food banks that distribute about 265 packages a month. There are no figures of the number of people living below the poverty line, or the number of children growing up in poor families. But the price level on the islands is higher than in the Netherlands, according to a report by the Bonairian organisation Unbokon in collaboration with the Nibud. They have based themselves on concrete prices and real family compositions. A couple with two children will lose at least $2,863 each month to the most basic living and a single with a child $1,864. Single elderly people lost $1.451 and an older couple lost $1.853. I refer to these amounts in order to show the difference between benefits and minimum wage. In fact, the minimum wage is $827, the under stand................................................................................................................................................................................................ A child can see that fine words about "upgrading the minimum wage in the long term and linking it to the nettle that will increase it in the long run" are not enough to give people a decent life. The Nibud has also noted that when income is too low for the basic package, survival techniques such as loans, dependence on others, cuts in a way that threatens health or illegal income are passed on. It is not for nothing that the Spies Committee found bitter disappointment in the BES islands. People were counting on improvements, looking at the terminology "a level of provision acceptable to the Netherlands." Instead, they have even deteriorated financially. My question in the written round that preceded this debate, of course, was: when can the people of Saba, Statia and Bonaire really expect improvement? And what improvement should I imagine? Can the underprivileged people, the elderly, the disabled, then simply do their shopping and pay their rent, electricity and other normal fixed charges? I would like to see the Minister's answer now not again using vagueness such as 'in the long term','real' or 'linking in steps to the statutory minimum wage', but what he simply calls man and horse. When can all Dutch people in the Caribbean Netherlands still do their necessary shopping at the end of the month? During our visit to Bonaire, the board of directors also stressed the problem of poverty. I know that another college has been set up and I would like to hear from the Minister whether he has contacted the College by now and whether they intend to take action against poverty. Can the Minister indicate what means the BES islands themselves have to cope with poverty among the population? A tricky point recently became known is the fact that millions of contributions have disappeared from the largest pension insurance company and ordinary insurer ENNIA. The money disappeared in the owner's pocket. Insurance and pensions are no longer covered. I would like to hear what the Minister can do, what he has done or what he is going to do to ensure that these people get at least the pension they deserve. Are they still insured for the whole amount they're paying? During the working visit to the six islands I regularly spoke to people who were working. It was striking that many European Dutch were among them. Figures back this up, too. In 2015, 950 employment permits were issued to foreign workers, including for jobs at the bottom of the labour market. Isn't this strange when you realize that people are still unemployed? I just mentioned all the figures on low literacy and low education. It must have something to do with that. If we want to work on a situation in which the countries of the European Union and, of course, the islands themselves are tackling as much as possible and calling for our help as necessary, we will also have to work together to ensure that the population is well trained. What does the Minister think about setting up, for example, a good hotel school? In my view this can also prevent young people from leaving and staying away and make the return to the island where you were born at least a lot easier. Two weeks ago there was a debate in the House of Representatives on the evaluation report of the Spies Committee. A number of motions have also been tabled, including a motion on infrastructure adjustments and increasing free space. The intention of that motion is the following. If anything is done about the infrastructure, which then entails human or maintenance costs, then there must be money. The Minister strongly advised against this motion, but I would nevertheless like him to reconsider it. For example, there is a waste recycling on Saint-Eustatius, but it has been out of use for a year. The cause is the lack of money for exploitation and personnel. Even though the island is responsible for the use of the plant, there is a suspicion that there has been insufficient consultation to ensure that it was put into service after delivery. Perhaps the Minister could comment more generally on the consultations between both the countries and the BES islands and tell us how agreements are being made? To what extent is it decided with the islands instead of them? The debate on the other side of the House, which has already been mentioned, called for a change of direction. See what the islands themselves want and can do and help where necessary. Surely Saba will be able to do much more than we have entrusted the people of Saba to date. I can imagine that the VNG, as a representative of municipalities, but also of public bodies, can help here if necessary. I hope the Minister will take this up. There are many things to name that they themselves should be able to do, such as issuing work and fishing licences. Now we spend net 240 million a year on the BES islands. It must be possible to do so more efficiently, so that the money actually ends up where it is needed. If you are connected and still separate thousands of kilometres, good cooperation and coordination are important. My idea then is that you should have as much as possible done by the people on the spot. First of all, the Minister for Kingdom Relations must take on a truly coordinating role, so that there is no longer any question of the present fragmentation and about a dozen ministries each engaged in dialogue with the islands in their own way. I will conclude my speech. After almost six years we have to conclude that there is still a lot of work to be done. This is work that will not be done overnight, but that for the SP is a prerequisite for good cooperation within the Kingdom. Keyword in this is "trust." Firstly, we must do everything we can to eradicate corruption and it is a condition that politicians are and remain of unspoken behaviour. Finally, a country with many poor inhabitants is vulnerable and poverty reduction must be one of the first things we tackle. We must also work towards a situation where the Netherlands no longer has the Caribbean part, but in which we work together to make the right choices. Sometimes this will mean that the Netherlands must do something, but above all that it must stop doing something: following unnecessary bureaucracy and prescribing what needs to be done. On the basis of confidence with the islands, let us look at what the islands can and cannot do, and on that basis we will reach out to help. It is good for the Netherlands not to be unnecessary or inefficient, but it is especially good for the people there who can get to work quickly and know for themselves where the needs lie! I look forward with interest to the Minister's story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a quote. "A government with a state and a local part, each with its own responsibilities, but also with one common goal: to monitor and promote the well-being of citizens." That is a quote from the interview in the Antillian Dagblad with Tjin Asjoe, the political leader of the Movemento di Pueblo Boneriano, the party also represented in the new board of directors of Bonaire, which the minister may have talked to during his visit to Bonaire recently. It is a statement which we welcome and which we ourselves can also take as a starting point in our assessments today. Even if things go wrong and there is certainly dissatisfaction on certain points, the governments are of course not too bad faith and they are trying to guard and promote the well-being of citizens. Nevertheless, where it goes wrong, criticism can be made and the causes must also be sought by us. It goes wrong to guarantee the promised acceptable level of provision in the BES islands. No other conclusion can be drawn from the report of the Spies Committee, nor from the Minister's answers to the questions put by the Chamber. Much is going well and there is general praise for that, but rather widespread poverty is not part of an acceptable level of provision and, even if there are no precise figures for this, the picture of poverty, reduced prosperity is clearly emerging from the Commission's report and also from our talks on the islands. The CBS has just stated that in 2012 and 2013 the purchasing power on the islands has increased, and that seems wonderful. But it has also found that almost half of the island population is the opposite. So that's not pretty at all. For the people of the islands the disappointment about the lagging, even declining purchasing power, prosperity, is by far the most important element in the feeling about what it is like to belong to the Netherlands. The Netherlands cannot afford that. I do not understand why the Minister does not want to commit that a social minimum will be set, as we know it in the Netherlands. Then there is a benchmark, which is now lacking in the definition of, for example, the benefit regime. Depending on only the economic situation, expressed in the minimum wage, is not reasonable, as long as it is not clear to what extent the minimum wage exceeds the minimum wage. I would very much like a clear position from the Minister on this. In fact, I do not believe that a higher minimum wage would lead to an unmanageable influx of outside labour. Work permits are required, naturalization can only take five years and the islands are small in scale and very clear. And distortion of competition with companies from outside the islands can hardly be a problem. There is very little material production on the islands. A problem for the Minister in these matters is, of course, that we have chosen that each ministry should be responsible for its own standards to be applied. So it may be difficult for the Minister to make a commitment, as long as decisions are not taken in other ministries. In that case, the Minister may clearly address the fault of the deficiency. The fact that each ministry is responsible for its own standards has also proved to be a problem in relation to the islands, in two ways. The large sums of money spent on the islands, because the Netherlands cannot be blamed, sometimes find themselves in very different projects than is desired on the islands. If that is the case, it often seems to lead to an attitude in the department: "Wouldn't we know that better than you?'. This is a business, but above all a psychological problem, which of course is not wanted by anyone, but can disturb the situation very much. It is necessary that there is more consultation than hitherto, in which the views of the populations and administrative colleges are really listened to. The National Representative can play an important role if he is accepted not only on the islands as a representative of The Hague, but also in the departments as a representative and mediator of the islands. The latter has so far been far too little in the opinion of the State representative. I understand from the Minister's answers to the questions that this double role will be explicitly intended in future. Does the Minister think that this double role will also be accepted favourably in the various departments? The change from the title to Commissioner, as proposed by Mrs Van Bijsterveld, could perhaps be a step. The planned talks, at least twice a year from the state service and the state representative with all the islands individually, offer good opportunities if the information that comes out there is taken seriously enough in The Hague. There seems to be a third major problem in the rules in force. The islands have the feeling of losing autonomy because of their new status and their financial resources seem to be insufficient to carry out even the tasks they are allowed to carry out properly. If out of the 367 million spent on the islands but more than 40 million can be freely spent by them themselves, the proportions do indeed seem very distorted. The Idea Versa report therefore notes: the islands complain very concretely about beautiful investments that the Netherlands pays, but without adjusting the island's own resources to be able to maintain these investments themselves. I understand that even the College of Financial Supervision is running counter to this. Is this problem also not a sign of an overly protective attitude that holds powers, even the issuing of fishing licences, let alone work permits, and money, preferably as much as possible in the hands of the Hague? Is the Minister prepared, together with all his colleagues, to give serious thought to proposals from the island authorities if they think they can handle matters themselves? In fact, I assume that if the three problems now identified by me, the problem of poverty, take too little account of the views of the islands themselves, and the reluctance to entrust powers and own resources to these local authorities, are resolved, the Dutch regime on the three public bodies will be a success or indeed a success. Because, of course, there is a lot going on already. Take, for example, the appointment of the Sabanese deputy Chris Johnson as the Dutch representative on Saint Martin. This proves that the Netherlands certainly has an eye for the possibilities, capacities and competences that the islands themselves have to offer. Another case concerning the BES islands. The Human Rights College and the National Ombudsman have drawn attention in a letter to the fact that legal aid in civil proceedings in the islands is often a problem. Low-threshold advice is not available, formal legal aid of a lawyer is expensive and moreover a lawyer on Saba and Sint-Eustatius is not available. From Saint-Eustatius himself I was reminded that under Antillean law assistance could be provided by an agent, cheaper and more easily accessible than the lawyer is now under Dutch law. With the College and the Ombudsman, I ask the Minister to address this problem. This is also an example of a change in circumstances caused by replacing Antillean with Dutch regulations. Whether, in general, this has been done with restraint over the last five years may still be questionable. In any case, however, it has become clear to me that the Common Court, which has both the Caribbean countries and the Caribbean Netherlands as a working area, has a feeling that the Netherlands, in particular, does not take sufficient account of the consistency of legislation to be pursued in accordance with the Statute and which is also of great importance for the functioning of the Court. In general, the countries will often comply with Dutch legislation in their legislation, but for the Caribbean Netherlands it also seems very useful to keep a close eye on whether our regulations fit in with the Caribbean conditions. How important does the Minister consider it to be that the legislation we implement generally takes into account the principle of consistency of Article 39 of the Statute, but that the situation on the other islands is also taken into account in particular in the legislation for the BES? In what way can the Minister, from his coordinating role, allow the other departments to take this into account? Let me draw your attention to this: the report by the Committee on the Evaluation of Judicial Laws shows that the financial situation of the Common Court is very difficult and hinders the proper use of competent staff and, for example, the necessary modernisation of the work processes. The proper functioning of the judicial system is very important, especially for the Netherlands. Not only because of the position of the three public bodies Caribbean Netherlands, but perhaps even more because of the guarantee function of the Kingdom for good governance. I therefore ask the Minister how he sees the Court's problems, whether he believes that the financial possibilities may be too tight and how he believes that the problems identified can be solved. Then there is the relationship with the Caribbean countries. The countries are autonomous and therefore responsible for all issues, with a few exceptions. However, the guarantee function which the Staff Regulations confer on the Kingdom may, in circumstances, require intervention in autonomy. I should like briefly to address two aspects of the functioning of the Kingdom. First of all, it is precisely the regulation of the guarantee function that is the main cause of disputes within the Kingdom. The dispute settlement will soon be discussed, but I would like to make it clear that I agree with the idea that purely legal disputes should be settled in a binding manner. Where administrative-political considerations play a role, this does not apply in full. Secondly, the question is: what is the Kingdom? The composition of the kingdom government is governed by the Statute. The fact that the kingdom government in the Caribbean countries is often seen as a purely Dutch, i.e. almost colonial super boss, is understandable, but also inevitable by the weight ratios of the four countries relative to each other. But the kingdom parliament that has to approve the national laws is really a purely Dutch parliament, with some right to speak but without any right to vote of the Caribbean people or parliaments. In practical terms, the democratic deficit that is often discussed is often the weight of the Netherlands vis-à-vis the three other countries. But in a formal sense, there is also a real democratic deficit here where national laws can only be determined by one of the four national parliaments. In order to solve this problem, there are several possibilities that I will not go into further. Nor does it seem appropriate to seek to adapt the political relations in the Kingdom now, and any adjustment would have very limited effects in terms of materiality. But it makes sense to continue to realize this flaw in relations, to take that into account in the way in which we deal with each other, and also to strive on occasion for a definitive solution to this formal state-law imbalance. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to these thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u18	I would like to thank Mr Ten Hoeve for raising this very important point. What about democratic relations, particularly within a kingdom in which numbers vary so much? Mr Ten Hoeve says that there are different solutions and adds that he is not taking them now. I'm curious about the direction of resolution. Is there not also an insoluble element that we are trying to address, for example by the right of the special delegates and the ministers responsible? If this problem is really soluble, then we need to talk about it. Or should we note that an element of this issue is insoluble and that it is particularly important to deal with it in communication and relational terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u19	Under the present circumstances, we must learn to deal with it as closely as possible. In itself, the problem is quite soluble. Kingdom legislation is adopted. All parts of the Kingdom could participate in political decision-making, not just in the discussion about it. This could be done, for example, by supplementing the Dutch Parliament with representatives of the countries at the time when there is a need to vote on kingdom laws. Then they have the right to vote and not just the right to speak. It can also be solved in the way Denmark has done so. There would then be a permanent representative of the overseas territories in the Dutch parliament. This has the effect of being voted on purely Dutch matters by representatives of the Caribbean countries. Because that voice remains very limited, it does not really have to be a problem. Denmark has preceded us in this respect. So there are solutions to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u20	With all due respect, I note that this material does not go beyond a symbolic solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u21	That's exactly what I'm saying. The weight of the Netherlands in relation to the islands can never be washed away. You can try to find a formally pure solution to the problem of kingdom laws that must also be approved by the Kingdom. I've got three more practical cases. In order to obtain Dutch citizenship by a resident of one of the Caribbean islands, it should be possible to speak one of the languages recognized on the spot. Who speaks Papiaments and lives in Curaçao can't be forced to learn Dutch to be called a citizen? Expensive and pointless, for example, the Aruban Government says very explicitly about this. And I agree with her. What does the Minister think? Is there no reason to differentiate the requirements for naturalisation for the four countries? My second point. Recently, Mr Mito Croes said goodbye as a state council. There are no more Caribbean members within the Council of State, who do advise on national laws and, of course, much more often on legislation that will apply to the BES islands. Does the government have the will to allow the Caribbean territories to be represented on the Council of State again? What can we expect from that? And then the third point. The Netherlands is currently borrowing money at 0% interest. The Netherlands is willing and also very well able to lend money at low interest rates to Curaçao and Sint Maarten, but does not do so to Aruba. The demand that Aruba have to have its budget completely closed before the Netherlands is prepared to make cheap loans seems somewhat ridiculous given the tremendous and successful efforts of the Aruban government to develop the island and also for cohesion in the Kingdom. Here's the thing. The willingness shown to accept financial supervision on the same footing as the two other Caribbean countries and the fact that, unlike the two other Caribbean countries, Aruba has always had to clean up its financial mess itself, makes the Dutch refusal to do so very harsh. I would urge the Minister to get the Dutch cabinet to put an end to this discrimination. I'd like a positive response from the Minister. I started with a quote from a Bonairian politician. I end with the phrase on the Curaçao Autonomy Monument with the six flying birds. When the monument was unveiled in 1955, the text struck the Netherlands, Suriname and the Netherlands Antilles, but of course it still applies to the four countries of our Kingdom: "Supporting on their own strength, but with the will to assist one another." The Netherlands has the most opportunities to "support everyone else." It does not, of course, unconditioned, but the reality is that the Netherlands reserves the ultimate power in the Kingdom for itself on account of its economic and population weight. On the other hand, this economic weight must also be taken into account in helping with expertise, with administrative assistance and, where appropriate, with the financing of institutions that are important for the whole of the island. All this with respect for its own identity, its own culture and language, and the autonomy of all islands. I'd like to wait for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. One of the largest political innovations in the Kingdom dates from 10-10-10, with a fundamental change in the relationship between a number of islands and the mainland of the European Netherlands. The major question raised by British citizens in the Brexit referendum the day after tomorrow is similar to the question that has been asked in the Kingdom a long time ago: do we want to continue with each other and, if so, in what relationship? In the meantime, it is almost six years since the new relations have been established. Compliments on behalf of my group for the Spies Committee and for all the work it has done. The Spies report focuses on the implementation of the relationship with the BES islands, the legislation and the way in which the population experiences the new relationships. However, since the new structure as such has not been evaluated, it is difficult to assess whether the chosen political structure is partly the cause of the problems identified, or whether it is mainly due to the implementation of the new relationships. Having said this, I would like to focus on the content of my comments, which are mainly confined to the Caribbean Netherlands. One of the most important conclusions my group draws from the Spies report is that better account should be taken of the cultural and social differences between the BES islands and that, in conjunction with this, a real answer must be given to the question of what one can do, where one has to do better and where support and assistance are needed. Already in the run-up to 2010, there were different views on the extent to which it is necessary to work towards the introduction of Dutch legislation and to what extent, due to the special circumstances on the islands, derogations from Dutch legislation are necessary or desirable. The Party for Animals believes that there is a lot of room for movement within that structure and that this is also a force, provided that good political choices are made within it. The Spies report shows that the new relationships have so far contributed too little to the economic development of the islands and thus too little to the welfare and welfare levels of the inhabitants. In fact, the population of the BES islands is experiencing a decline in wealth and prosperity. Of course there are subtle differences, but this is the picture we get. In the islands there is a need for socio-economic development. Perhaps the most important example of the moderate implementation of socio-economic policies so far is the vagueness of what is an acceptable level of provision within the Netherlands. My group agrees with the questions put by Mr Meijer, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Ganzevoort on the interpretation of this concept. In addition, we want to take a broader look at the opportunities for reducing the relatively high cost of living to the poorest. Economic development is possible by focusing on more diversity in the sectors. The Spies report shows that the opportunities and opportunities for agriculture and horticulture in the Caribbean Netherlands are currently being limited and that the small-scale economies of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba are vulnerable because of the dependence on a limited number of sectors. It is important not only to maintain and strengthen these sectors, but also to exploit opportunities for diversification, for example by stepping up agriculture and horticulture, according to the Spies Committee. The cabinet response and the multi-annual plans do not make it clear exactly how the cabinet intends to increase the number of economic sectors in the long term. As far as my group is concerned, there is still a lack of a clear future perspective. Are we committed to sustainable small-scale economic development with respect for humans, animals and the environment? This question stems from a number of concerns. In the Caribbean Netherlands, laying batteries are still allowed. This confirms the Minister in response to our written questions. According to animal welfare on Bonaire, the local eggs on Bonaire come from laying batteries. I would like to put a hypothetical question to the Minister. Let's say we and Bonaire are going to step up agriculture and choose the island for laying batteries. Would a giga meat chicken company, as we see in Ukraine, be acceptable? Would it be acceptable for Bonaire to export these eggs to countries in the region? In fact, the Netherlands then exports battery eggs. I admit, it is a bit charged, but the bottom line is that we would like to see a little more clarity on the position of the European Netherlands on animal welfare in the BES islands. Can the Minister state clearly what the government is doing to prevent the promotion of prohibited farming systems in the Caribbean Netherlands in the European Netherlands, while they are banned here? "Legislative restraint" is a beautiful term that doesn't seem to mean much more than letting God's water run over God's field, or allowing animals' interests to be protected at a more limited level than those of animals in other parts of the Netherlands. That cannot be justified by my group. It shouldn't matter for an animal in which part of the Netherlands it lives. George Orwell sketches in Animal Farm the picture that all animals are equal, albeit some more than others. This picture appears to be a reality in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. It requires close cooperation with local authorities to consider what is useful and necessary in terms of legislation. The Caribbean Netherlands does not have legislation similar to the Animal Law. This is mainly due to legislative restraint. In this context, only a number of criminal provisions concerning animal abuse and neglect apply in the area of animal welfare in the Caribbean Netherlands. Public sector bodies have autonomous regulatory powers under the BES Act for matters not regulated by the national legislator, including animal welfare. At the moment of evaluation, the question arises as to whether this restraint remains desirable, partly depending on the animal welfare situation. Can the Minister state the current situation regarding animal welfare in the BES? Retention should be something other than averting the look. Those who are reluctant in the legislative sense keep their finger on the wrist to see what the consequences of this restraint are for the most vulnerable creatures in the Caribbean: the animals. The Minister said in the debate in the Lower House about the evaluation report that human rights and animal rights can be land responsibilities and sometimes kingdom responsibilities. Can the Minister state what he means by that in terms of animal rights? Does he agree with the Animal Party that the Netherlands should guarantee animal rights throughout the Kingdom and that animals in overseas territories should not be deprived of real protection where our legal protection is apparently insufficient to bridge the distance between the European Netherlands and the Caribbean? I'd like to hear a response. The constitutional reform gives the Dutch government the opportunity and the duty to protect and manage coral reefs, nebula forests and other Caribbean nature. Since 2013, Caribbean Netherlands has received funding for various nature projects. That seems to be a lot of money available in total, but if we put that in perspective, it is less than €0.45 per European Dutchman. For ten years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provided funding to the Dutch Caribbean Nature Alliance as start-up capital for a trust fund. This was initiated by D66 at the time. If the trust fund is fully completed, the operational costs can be covered by one land and one sea park in both the Caribbean Netherlands and the countries within the Kingdom. As far as my group is concerned, this is urgently needed because, for example, such a park does not yet exist at St Martin's. Last year the last grant was granted as an advance for the year 2016. The Minister has indicated that the scheme is now being evaluated. My group would like to see an evaluation as soon as possible, so that, in the event of proven effectiveness, the scheme can simply progress in 2017 and be adjusted in the event of insufficient proven effectiveness. Can the Minister indicate whether the evaluation will be completed before the next government budget is discussed? The reporting obligation of the Netherlands with regard to the conservation status of species and habitats under the Habitats Directive is only in force within the European Union. In the current Nature Policy Plan Caribbean Netherlands, in line with the Nature Management and Protection Act BES, objectives have been set for nature and the landscape to be achieved during the planning period. However, for the BES islands, the state of species and habitats has not been considered. There is therefore no report on the conservation status. Does the Minister share this conclusion? If so, does the Minister see any possibility of reporting on the state of conservation in the Caribbean Netherlands in the annual reporting on the implementation of the Nature Policy Plan? I have a few comments to make on the countries within the Kingdom. The Animal Party believes that we should not focus on a fossil future. This is a complicated story when we look at Curaçao and Aruba. Both countries want to restart the refineries. That means we're going to use more on fossil fuels. During the work visit, someone told me Isla was in Curaçao's DNA. I found that very striking, because we all know that a large part of Curaçao is economically dependent on the Isla refinery. That is a very difficult problem, which may also be a buddy too big to solve for Curaçao alone. If we look at this within the Kingdom and look at where the Minister can provide support, one of the things we need to look at is how we can increase the diversity of economic sectors in Curaçao and how we can help the Curaçao administration. Of course, it is not desirable in the long term for such a large proportion of the population to be dependent on an industry that is not sustainable for employment. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. I come to climate change. From 2030 onwards, we will notice the effects of climate change on the Caribbean islands very directly. According to experts, this will cause problems. Between now and 2100 the sea level in the Caribbean is expected to rise by at least one meter and perhaps even six meters. This is evident from an investigation of the United Nations global development plan. Important buildings, such as Fort Amsterdam, can be flooded. The Caribbean islands will be in trouble within 15 years. During the IPKO, attention has been paid to climate change. The countries have agreed to draw up plans for tackling climate change. This seems to be a huge challenge, but European Netherlands, for example, can play a huge role through its expertise in dike monitoring and the transition to renewable energy. Does the Minister see opportunities to give these countries more support in formulating climate plans? For the Animal Party, it is important to bear in mind that each island is different and that we have to look at what the administrations can and where they need to supplement each policy area. However, respect for cultural diversity and autonomy must not result in responsibilities not being assumed by the country which has for so long held a dominant position in overseas territories. In the interests of humans, animals, nature and the environment, we will have to recognise that we still have a great deal to offer the Caribbean islands, but that we also have a great deal to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I think Mr De Graaf can just make his contribution to the lunch break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. I understand you're inviting me to speak quickly. Three years ago, we last had a debate here on the future of kingdom relations. Many of the topics that were discussed at the time will be discussed again today. Logical, because in a kingdom characterized by four hundred years of intensive relations over thousands of nautical miles, three years are a negligible unit of time. During these three years, the commitments and connections between the countries and people belonging to the Kingdom have not been substantially altered. The political transition that took place on 10 October 2010 did, of course, renew the formal relations in the Kingdom, but even then it was not possible to say that the historical link between the Netherlands and the six islands in the Caribbean fundamentally changed. No one felt this way in the Netherlands, I think, and probably only politicians and civil servants in the Antilles. For the populations of Aruba, Bonaire, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten, Saba and Sint-Eustatius it is probably not so much the formal administrative structure as the starting point of the administration as close to the citizen as possible and the guarantee that in need and insecurity can always be traced back to the larger whole of the Kingdom. This was the case for 2010, and this is still the case, regardless of the precise form of government per island. In that sense, there is not necessarily a lot of news under the tropical sun. Nevertheless, the political transition has brought about the necessary in the administrative relations. I mention the autonomy of Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, with the dismantling of the framework of the Netherlands Antilles, and the direct relationship of the smallest islands with the Netherlands, as special public bodies. How has all this worked out for the people of the islands, for the quality of their governance, for the quality of their lives in terms of prosperity and well-being, and how has it worked out for relations within the Kingdom? In fact, that should be the subject of this debate. In the three years that have elapsed since the 2013 debate, evaluations have been prepared and carried out covering parts of that 2010 transition. In that earlier debate, we spoke about these preparations: the Minister will remember that. The evaluations concerned the relationship between the Netherlands and the three smallest islands which in 2010 moved from the dissolved Netherlands Antilles to the Netherlands and the so-called Consensus Kingdom laws. Those latter laws concern law enforcement in the Caribbean of the Kingdom through Common Court, Police, Public Prosecutor's Office, Law Enforcement Board and Financial Supervision of Curaçao and Saint Martin. These evaluations are now available, but unfortunately a cabinet position on the evaluation of law enforcement laws is not yet available. That makes these evaluations less timely, I think. This is a pity, especially in the light of some positive signals that the quality of law enforcement and support for the population on, for example, Curaçao is developing positively. In addition, my group felt that it would have been reasonable if we had talked much more broadly about the political structure of the Kingdom here today. It also seemed to be the intention when we discussed the design of the evaluations with the Minister three years ago. We were under the assumption that the Minister was at the time, and he would have to reread the debate on this question again, that there would be an overall assessment of the whole transition of 2010. We discussed whether this should be publicly tendered or not, and the Minister then explicitly undertook to involve in the evaluation the possibility of a revision of the Statute of the Kingdom. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the commitment to my address and that of Mr Van Bijsterveld, No. 201963. Unfortunately, there has been little of that. I regret that. There is every reason, in my view, after five or six years to objectively review the new kingdom relations in order to get an answer to the questions I have just raised. I would like to ask the Minister again why this has not been done. Did the Minister seriously consider this, but did the kingdom partners perhaps not feel that way? Also relevant is the modernisation of the Staff Regulations to which I have just referred. That seemed to be moving three years ago, but since then there has been a deep silence. Twelve years ago, the intention was to have the 50-year Statute evaluated by a state committee. Unfortunately, the resignation of the minister's predecessor at the time did not bring this about. And after that, I don't. The transition of 10-10-10 has not given rise to this either. In fact, that is curious, although of course articles have been adapted to the new constellation. In the meantime, several articles of the Statute have become sluts or are under discussion. I refer to the provisions on disputes, the involvement in national legislation, the borrowing of money and the guarantee function, which has been discussed before. Would it not be desirable to carry out an evaluation of the Staff Regulations in the light of the new situation since 2010? An attempt to do so would be really helpful. I am considering tabling a motion on this point in the second term. Within the time available to me, it is not possible to deal in detail with the situation in the various countries in the Caribbean of the Kingdom. Fortunately, we regularly discuss this with the Minister in a different way. I confine myself here to an invitation to the Minister to share with us his opinion on the development of the quality of public administration on St.Maarten, given the persistent intertwinedness of the dark gambling world with politics and governance that has occasionally become apparent in recent years. Curaçao is in the run-up to the September elections. My group hopes that the stable and reasonable forces on the island will obtain a mandate for a sensible course in economics, public finances and law enforcement. Aruba is still doing an excellent job economically, but my group is concerned about both the strong political polarisation on the island and the insufficient reduction of the excessive government deficits. How does the Minister view that? Mr. Chairman. I come to speak about the political evaluation of the Caribbean Netherlands, which was completed at the end of last year. In the meantime, there is also a cabinet position which, although not soon, has finally appeared on time and which we can therefore discuss here as well. Let me begin by thanking the Spies Committee in the wake of colleagues for an extremely thorough evaluation. The committee has spoken to many residents and organisations of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba for this evaluation, so thank them too. Each of us has visited these three islands one or more times in recent years and has been able to experience the problems with our own ears and eyes: visible poverty that has not disappeared since 10-10 and has hardly been reduced, high prices, low benefits and continuing concern about the future of island children. Moreover, on several of the islands, there has been cause for doubt over the quality of local democracy and executive governance over the last six years. At Bonaire there is still a discussion about the desired connection with the Netherlands, a debate that does not benefit the unity on the island and paralyzes the political relations. The island administration of Saint-Eustatius has not been able to manage public finances independently and had to be supervised. These are all reasons for concern. There is also a positive picture of this: Saba, for example, is doing an excellent job in all respects and there is visible progress on all three islands in terms of care and education. Major efforts have been made by the island authorities and by the Netherlands in recent years, and considerable more money has also been made available for welfare, infrastructure, education and health care. The Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations recently estimated, in a debate on the other side, that since 2012 the R &amp; D spending on the BES islands has increased by EUR 150 million and has reached an amount of EUR 367 million for this year. That is, he did not forget to mention, minus taxes and taxes about 250 million extra going to the three islands, which amounts to about €10,000 per head of the population. And this while the inhabitants of the other islands, which have become autonomous countries within the Kingdom, do not receive any contribution from the Netherlands, the Minister said. Of course, there is something to be done about this, some projects are being subsidised and the Netherlands de facto provides a significant part of the resources for law enforcement on the other islands, but the picture is essentially correct. Since the political transition, Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba have been able to make good use of the relationship with our prosperous European Netherlands. That's a good thing, because that's what it was all about. When during the Balkenende II cabinet the first step forward was taken by not sticking to the status quo of the kingdom structure and the opening was made to an autonomous status of Curaçao and Saint Martin, we also knew that this would mean the end of the political association of the Netherlands Antilles. The three smallest islands would, in a sense, come into the air, because they were and are too small in population and economic opportunities to be autonomous, let alone independent, but they also did not want to enter into a dependent relationship with Aruba, Curaçao or Saint Martin. Recording in the context of the Netherlands was not only a logical but ultimately a desired solution, desired by the populations of the three islands. I still believe, twelve years after the Jessurun report, which was the basis of the political change, that the construction of the BES islands as special public bodies in the Netherlands has been a sensible one. If only because an alternative wasn't and isn't for real. The Spies report describes this five-year connection in a new form and notes that there is a mixed image. The expectations were probably very high. There were also demonstrable circumstances which had little to do with the transition but had a negative impact on the economic conditions and living standards of the islands. The introduction of the dollar, the global financial and economic crisis, the malfunctioning of the consumer goods market, all of which was reflected in the extremely high prices to be paid for basic necessities and normal food. That has little to do with 10-10-10, but it is a fact. And against that fact, there are no higher incomes or higher benefits. On the contrary, there is no doubt that, among other things, the island sector is simply too low. I quote the Spies report: 'After the transition, the Empire has had too little regard for those groups that cannot provide their income through labour'. It is clear that the social minimum needs to be raised. The cabinet now recognizes this in its response to the Spies report. That's profit. The phrase that the cabinet intends to set a social minimum to which the industry will have to move is still of great abstraction. Perhaps the Minister can and will say more about this today. My group believes that the Spies Committee's report gives a fair and enlightening picture of the situation on the islands. We also broadly agree with the government's position, although this may be translated in a number of ways. I have already talked about socio-economic developments. The cabinet wants to give an impetus to this, but does not show the back of its tongue. For example, policies are announced to curb price increases. But how and what? Quite frankly, the same applies to poverty policy: what will be the concrete measures? The government also remains willing to look for ways of reducing employers' contributions, now 18.4%. That sounds nice, but dies in beauty if no concrete step is announced. Opportunities are also being sought to introduce more and more effective incentives into the fiscal instruments to stimulate investment and employment. But what exactly is the cabinet looking for? I would like to tell the cabinet here the words that it uses in the cabinet's own reaction: to do less paper, to do more! Mr. Chairman. My group agrees with the cabinet that there is reason for institutional stability, as it is well formulated. Moreover, this resistance must not become the enemy of institutional dexterity, because we also need it from time to time. In our view, too, there are no good reasons for institutional changes in the position of the three small islands within the Kingdom and within the Dutch state. It is clear that the road to ordinary municipalities, albeit with special characteristics, is not really attractive to anyone. It is also clear that options outside the Dutch context have no real value and do not help the islands in any way. Of course, international international law offers the peoples of the islands the opportunity to strive for independence and independence, and the Netherlands could not and should not stop doing so. But a serious debate in real terms is not really going on about that. That's understandable, too. The reason for this is the further differentiation by island, to which the cabinet position rightly refers. The islands are very different in possibilities, ambitions and impact. The relationship which the Empire maintains must be adapted accordingly. I am glad that the Minister sees this, but I do wonder how he intends to shape this. Does he mean not only the multiannual plans made with each of the islands, but also differentiation in powers and instruments? Perhaps Minister Plasterk would like to explain this here. As far as I am concerned, institutional stability also includes more clarity about the long-term status of the islands. They remain, I presume, special public bodies. Why does the Minister not want this to be enshrined in the Constitution? The legislative restraint as a starting point for the State's policy on the BES islands should also be sustained. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has said very sensible things about this. As far as I am concerned, the starting point of this legislative restraint, or perhaps the 'needs' referred to by Mrs Van Bijsterveld, should also be laid down by law, for example in the Wolbes. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. The quality of the public administration is rightly given a great deal of attention by the Minister; I commend him for that. The cabinet response expressed the intention to make more official capacity available to the islands from the Netherlands. That sounds good, but the Spies report warns against the fragmented and partly contradictory approach of the Dutch side. How can the islands be prevented from becoming overcrowded with well-meaning but also intergovernmental officials? The CN-table led by the Secretary-General of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, resulting from what has been called the "small evaluation Caribbean Netherlands," is a good start for better coordination, especially if the CN-table also talks twice a year with the individual island authorities. But maybe there's a need for even better steering. The starting point since 10-10-10 is that the BES islands are the Netherlands and therefore all ministers in the Netherlands have their own responsibility for their own piece of policy. So we should also talk here with Secretary of State Dekker about primary education at Bonaire, or with Secretary of State Klijnsma about that social minimum. The minister's predecessors even rejected a slight coordination by the Ministry of Kingdom Relations. Fortunately, this Minister has not been doing so for a few years, and that is fine, but the question is whether he should not have a more direct authority for these islands, including a right of assent and right of veto on policies, resources and human resources from other ministries. The mirror image of the former large-city policy, a small-island policy, so to speak. The Minister will probably reject it for the time being, but we should have the courage to think about it in the coming formation. As far as I'm concerned, that's a good bet. One final point concerns the position of the State representative in the BES Islands. We welcome the way in which the current State representative, Mr Isabella, is doing his job; we congratulate him on that. But it remains a difficult function, not only because of the small scale of the island administration and the mistrust that is always lurking, but also because of the permanently unclear nature of the function. The Minister refers to the State representative in the cabinet position as "the administrative outpost on behalf of the cabinet to the public bodies." Apart from the question of whether this is beautiful Dutch, it is in any case the question whether it is clear what he means by this. The National Representative is more than an ambassador to the Dutch government, isn't he? If he really wanted to enjoy the confidence of the islands, shouldn't he serve as an outpost of the island authorities to the Empire and get that position? Mr Isabella himself described his position in his 2015 progress report as "a link between The Hague and the administrative colleges." That seems to me to be a more appropriate indication. Sometimes the National Representative is compared with the Commissioner of the King in the province, also an analogy used by Mrs Van Bijsterveld. It is precisely this one that has this dual task: the sovereign but also the provincial body that can stand up for the interests of the inhabitants of the province. I would like to invite the Minister to go into that again. The profile of the role of the National Representative, as established at the time by the Van Gastel/Thunissen/Johnson Committee, explicitly mentioned the administrative liaison function, but did not actually link to it any instruments. In fact, the State representative did not have his own people for this either, because his own office was previously rejected by the government. Shouldn't we be thinking about this? The State representative himself states that direction and coordination should be strengthened and that this should not depend on the voluntary willingness of the ministries and the island authorities. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. I look forward to the Minister's answers with great interest. He ended up as Minister of Kingdom Relations in his last year and will undoubtedly have a lot of ambitions to make that year fruitful for the Kingdom. I'd like to invite him to display those ambitions here!
