ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice and the people in the public gallery. I give Mrs Van Toorenburg the floor on behalf of the CDA to put a question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. A municipality that invites foreigners to come to the Netherlands to use drugs to your heart's content; I'm sure you can't imagine it, but it's happening. It's happening in Tilburg. What's going on? In our coffee shop policy we have a resident criterion. That simply means that foreigners are not welcome in our coffee shops. It's so arranged to stop the nuisance. After all, we threatened to become Europe's drug supplier. Worse still, even out there we had an attraction. What did Tilburg City Council come up with? In order to circumvent that restrictive regime, the Council has forced the mayor to temporarily turn foreign visitors to festivals into residents of Tilburg. The festivals in question, I don't even mention them in order not to advertise them. After all, the city council decided that it would be so hospitable to admit them to the coffee shops. It shouldn't get any crazier, President: a government agency that makes a festival ticket a free pass to use drugs to your heart's content. More than a blind eye, foreign drug users are helped to get drugs. It's the CDA a thorn in the eye. We ask ourselves: can we do this? Doesn't this undermine our restrictive coffee shop policy? Is the Secretary of State going to stand next to the mayor, who absolutely didn't want to do this, to stop it? There is still plenty of time; it will happen next weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Van Toorenburg also knows, coffeeshop policy aims to reduce coffeeshops and reduce the burden of drug tourism. That is why we have the resident criterion, which every municipality must introduce and maintain. This has made it possible for mayors to prevent the nuisance of drug tourists. There is also room for local customization in enforcement. The best way to balance how and under which conditions can best be maintained is in the local triangle. We have also seen that the city council of Tilburg made a broad call to the mayor and that the mayor has not taken over this call in its entirety. He said that the resident criterion would continue to apply and that he would apply local customization to two events in the way Mrs Van Toorenburg has just outlined. There is no maintenance when visitors to the festival enter a coffee shop. This is a fill-in of local customization that can be done. I am particularly pleased that the mayor is doing very little and that he is maintaining the criterion of residence in Tilburg in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u4	In all honesty, I find it a somewhat disappointing reaction. We have had debates on this with the Minister before. He stated, also in a 2015 letter of inquiry, that he underlined the importance of including that criterion, precisely in order to be able to maintain it firmly in the end. This way it will be released, against the will of this mayor, who does not want this at all. He doesn't want any more drug tourists on the border with Belgium. These are festivals that apparently only invite drug users. Why are we in the Netherlands finally making it easier for foreigners to use drugs in the Netherlands? When is the cabinet really going to make sure that the arrangement we have gets teeth too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mrs. Van Toorenburg makes the world a little black-witter than that. It is indeed important to introduce the resident criterion. We are also pleased that most municipalities have done so and a number of municipalities are in the process of introducing and maintaining it. However, it is appropriate that the local triangle can decide, under certain circumstances and at some point, that customisation is necessary, and this also fits in with the policy. Mrs Van Toorenburg may, of course, express her own opinion on this interpretation by means of her own qualification. I believe that such a matter should be discussed particularly in the local triangle and democracy circuit, so that we can look at whether something falls within a particular context in terms of customization. The members of Mrs Van Toorenburg's party can have a say in this and her party even provides a very capable alderman who deals with the events.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u6	It's a pity the Secretary of State is looking at it that way. He says that customization will be necessary at some point, but can anyone explain to me why it is necessary to facilitate drug tourism to the Netherlands? Why is it necessary to say to people in advance: come to these festivals in Tilburg, we know you're a drug addict and that's why we give you access to the coffeeshops at that ticket? That is not the coffee shop policy we want in the Netherlands, is it? The Secretary of State rightly states that this is taking place in the local triangle, but I would like to hear from him how the Public Prosecutor ultimately handles this. The implementation of the coffeeshop policy is applicable national policy and there is also a Note Opium law from the Public Prosecutor's Office. The D.A.'s office is just gonna let this happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mrs Van Toorenburg points out all kinds of things that underline why it is important to have this discussion at local level. That is where people know exactly what is going on. The festival that will take place next Saturday does not advertise for this, because it is neatly mentioned on the website that only Dutch residents are allowed to enter coffeeshops. Therefore, this argument to attract a particular audience is not advertised. I believe that the discussion should be conducted mainly at local level. The prosecution has its policy, but it also has a follow-up monopoly. That is why some restraint is appropriate for me before I elaborate on it. I can point out the current policy of the D.A.'s office in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u8	It is a little strange that the Secretary of State puts it all down locally, while the Minister, during debates here in the Chamber, states that he wants the local coffee shop policy to be maintained. Fortunately, it is true that these festivals did not have a flaming campaign in the end, but as far as we are concerned, we cannot invite foreigners to go to a coffee shop with a ticket, as if they were residents. Not only does that bother the local triangle, but also the other people in Tilburg, as they have complained about it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u9	I love the sobriety of this Secretary of State. He says it's local customization, and so it is. I have a very different question. You can also look at hash and weed in a different way, even within one party. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to the statements of former Prime Minister Van Agt during the Cannabis Liberation Day. He indicated that dealing with soft drugs is completely absurd and that we should not have it from the right-wing parties, because they are hopeless. He also said that he had major supply problems and that he would have liked to go further in 1976. Happily, he believes that international space is created for this. Does the Secretary of State share that sober vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mrs Bergkamp asks me to respond to Mr Van Agt's statements, who, looking back on his political career, is more likely to do debauchery, because he sees things differently now than at the time. I'll leave that to him. It is not directly a convincing argument for the cabinet to adjust the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u11	I find that a wonderful and sober observation by the Secretary of State, all the appreciation for it! The Secretary of State refers to his claim that local customization is involved. But if he resorts to this too much and too much, I wonder whether this permission not to maintain the policy does not actually undermine that same policy. That policy, no matter what you think about it, has a fragile balance. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u12	I think that's inherently embedded in policy. This policy includes both the resident criterion, which is a workable tool for mayors to fight nuisance, and the possibility of applying customisation in local situations and maintaining it in a certain way. I can imagine that if the tailor-made clause were to be stretched out extremely, it would actually turn the policy upside down. I have, of course, also discussed it with the Minister, and he also considers the case as it stands today, especially as a customization. There is room for this, as it is often best to address a local problem locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u13	Should we not be sober about the fact that the commercial gain has been the decisive factor here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u14	I wasn't at the discussion at Tilburg City Council. I understand that festivals are sold out before such a decision is made. In that sense, it won't add much. I did not get the recitals, because I did not attend the discussion in the city council of Tilburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u15	I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for the more pragmatic approach. It's about local customization. Does he know about other festivals and decisions on this subject which look at possible nuisances in the same pragmatic way or the maintenance of the resident criterion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u16	I am not aware of this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-2.u17	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers.
