ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u1	Let's move on to the debate. All Members are very welcome to follow the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u2	Mr President, what a pleasure to see so many Members present in an ordinary debate, other than the General Reviews! I also see the leader of the PVV group following his spokesman critically. That's good. Mr. Chairman. In all seriousness, we have an important subject at hand, namely: how do we deal with...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u3	I must interrupt you for a moment, because it is too noisy in the Chamber and it is almost impossible to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u4	We have an important subject at hand: how to deal with the outcome of the consultative referendum. I haven't been asked a lot of questions. The most important thing, in my opinion, is this. Perhaps I can draw on the input of Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union and the input of Mr Verhoeven of D66. Let me just back to the question: what do you have to do to respond on the one hand to the no vote and, on the other hand, to ensure that Europe's unity is not harmed? That is actually the task ahead. That is exactly what the cabinet is trying to do. The letter is about that, too. The Chamber sees how we are going to try to get out of Brussels with the other allies over the next few weeks. There's a reason for that. There is a reason not to say: we leave it at that, no is no and so we will not go on. I would like to explain this, but of course, Mr President, not until after Mr Klein has asked his pressing question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u5	No. I suggest you finish this part. After that, Mr Klein will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u6	I would like to comment on the reasons for the cabinet to seek a substantive answer to the no vote while at the same time ensuring that unity in Europe is not broken. It simply has to do with one important fact: at the moment, Russia is a threat to the security order of the whole of Europe. This is directly linked to the fact that, with the annexation of Crimea and Russian interference in eastern Ukraine, the security organisation of the whole of Europe is actually under threat from Russia at the moment, as regards the agreements on respect for each other's sovereignty and territorial integrity. This is a direct existential interest for the Netherlands. Maybe I can say it at home: if one of your neighbors comes in, then of course you can choose to raise your shoulders, but you can't avoid it, because before you know it, it becomes a habit all over the street. The only answer to this Russian attitude is European unity: European cooperation aimed at stability at our borders and at the threatening provocations of the Kremlin. I have to say the following. That Russian foreign policy extends beyond Ukraine itself. At present, we see in all kinds of places that Russia does not shy away from means such as disinformation, playing modern media. That is a deliberate tactic to influence the way things are going in other countries. This has deteriorated further in recent months. This has been further developed by Russia in recent months. Take, for example, the installation of weapons systems in Kaliningrad, between Lithuania and Poland. Look at the large-scale exercises that are again taking place at the borders of our alliance. And look at Russia's damaging influence in Syria: supporting the Assad regime, the aggression there and hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians trapped in Aleppo. If you look at that, you will find that this was already a topic at the referendum. I believe that the coalition has also stressed this in all kinds of debates. I know there is doubt about that, but I could mention the whole list of debates, even though I am not going to do so now, in which we have mentioned this issue. However, I also note that the situation has deteriorated in recent months. You come to a point where you have to ask yourself the following. If you take the association agreement off the table, which is to a large extent intended to contribute to stability at the borders of Europe, and when Russia has fought the coming of that treaty with all its intensity, is Europe not blinking? As far as I am concerned, Europe is blinking in the face of direct confrontation with Russia. That is why I, Bert Koenders and the whole cabinet are motivated to look at it. I think that's possible. The letter describes that route. That's gonna be hard work in the next few weeks. The aim is to reach conclusions at the European Council in mid-December and to quickly share the follow-up actions with the Chamber. In this way, we can preserve European unity. But I also realize that if we succeed, many people who voted no and who said and thought "no is no, point," will not be satisfied. We should not be under any illusions about that. If the result is that we give this no vote a place in substance, in the interests of maintaining unity in Europe, we will not be satisfied with every no voter. That is a fact and we must be very real about it. But that collective leadership must be shared here, because there are major geopolitical interests at stake that directly affect Dutch security. I shall close on this point. There is a lot of criticism of Europe and many things in Europe are not going well. But if you bring Europe all the way back to its essence, that essence is not only a strong internal market, but also security. The fact that a small country like the Netherlands is secure and embedded in a European cooperation and not only in the world is vital for Dutch interests. This also includes ensuring that a country does everything it can to avoid damaging the geopolitical impact that Europe can have, in this case its appearance towards Russia. That path is difficult, because at the same time you are dealing with a referendum that gave rise to a no vote. Mr Buma and others have already referred to this, and I understand that. The cabinet has therefore come to the conclusion that it is precisely in the interest of the Netherlands to address that no vote in substance, I believe that this can be done while at the same time ensuring that we do not harm the European unity, which is so essential for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u7	That answer was a little longer than I thought. Let me get this straight. The Prime Minister kept a good story about the geopolitical situation, but that situation was similar before 6 April. So did the Prime Minister. The arguments he put forward were well weighed and taken into account by the voters in the debate until 6 April. These arguments have also been taken into account when determining their vote on the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u8	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u9	The arguments put forward by the Prime Minister are excellent, but the question is why the electorate should now be dealt with afterwards, even though they have already heard the arguments put forward by the Prime Minister before 6 April. Why do we have to pee again about the referendum, a referendum that the Prime Minister did not feel at all, to meet the voters? That's not the issue at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u10	Let me say it very hard: we have a constitutional task here with 150 Members of Parliament and the cabinet. That task is always central to the Dutch interest. It is my conviction, and that of the cabinet, that it serves the Dutch interest if the no vote is dealt with properly. But if you were to translate the 'no' vote into a 'no is no' and not attempt to get a substantive answer to that 'no' vote, while at the same time preserving European unity, it would not be in the interests of our country. That is why the cabinet has come to this conclusion. Let me say this directly to Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u11	The essence and the idea of a referendum is that in the discussion prior to the referendum, you will see why you should vote for or against. The arguments put forward by the Prime Minister are excellent arguments for voting in favour, but the electorate has chosen differently. It is logical that this should then be respected and that we should not come up with all sorts of crazy arguments afterwards. You can't say: maybe I'm going to meet it, but maybe I should do some other things in the interests of the Netherlands. That doesn't make any sense, does it? Isn't that contrary to the confidence that voters would like to have in politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u12	I do not agree with the interpretation of the referendum law given by Mr Klein. The referendum law requires that, after a consultation referendum has taken place, the cabinet comes to the Chamber with a proposal. That proposal may be to accept the result, but it may also be to reject the result. I would like to find a way to give a place to the substantive objections. A number of Members of Parliament have also explained them in detail. I remember the debate between Mr Roemer of the Socialist Party and Mr Samsom at Nieuwsuur. I believe Mrs Maij mentioned the list. Those points can also be found in our letter. These are also the points mentioned by the organisers of the referendum itself directly after the referendum result. Bart Nijman spoke on 7 April in the Volkskrant and Thierry Baudet on 7 April in the programme Pauw about the substantive arguments and points that had to be addressed. They both said it didn't have to lead to the rejection of the association agreement. In fact, Baudet even wanted to offer to sit down with Cliteur, Van Ham and Harry van Bommel to draw up a manifesto on what I should negotiate in Brussels. Shows it's not that simple and black and white. In addition, a referendum is only about a national issue, but this is not about the choice of a particular building or a Dutch flag, as was the case in New Zealand the other day. This is about a multilateral treaty with far-reaching implications if we say yes or no to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u13	Prior to the referendum, the Treaty was, according to the Prime Minister, a trade treaty and no more. We didn't have to make it bigger than it was. Now he's really pulling everything out of the closet. He's bringing Syria in, he's bringing Russia in, you name it. What's with the turn? Didn't the Prime Minister learn from 2005? He undoubtedly remembers Brinkhorst and Donner who said: if the Netherlands votes against the European Constitution, the lights go out, then it becomes war. That is the language of war that the Prime Minister himself is working on. That's blackmail. Why would he do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u14	I said on 10 January in the Buitenhof programme: it is a treaty that oversees the building of the rule of law in Ukraine; it is in our interest to have stability on the borders, on the skin of Europe. I said on 30 March in Nieuwsuur that Ukraine should develop a good relationship not only with Europe, but also with Russia, of course, and that geopolitics is important to the Netherlands that this is happening. I said on 2 April in the daily newspaper: the association agreement is about stability at the borders of Europe. On 5 April in the Metro newspaper, I spoke about the Dutch interest in stability at the borders of Europe. And in Giel Beelen's programme he quit this week, but then he was there on 6 April 2016, I said: there are attacks, there is corruption, there are geopolitical tensions; what you obviously want to try as a united European Union is that you have a relationship with your neighbors, in this case Ukraine, that contributes to reducing those tensions. So I did say this, and that also applies to the 90 appearances of members of the cabinet in the run-up to 6 April. In addition to the trade part of the Convention, yes, it is also a trade agreement...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If you look at the developments between Russia and Europe in recent months, I would also point out that these arguments, which were already discussed at that time, are now even more pressing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u15	The Prime Minister's tone today about the dangers of not ratifying et cetera is not comparable to the tone the Prime Minister used for the referendum. Then he talked about a small treaty and said we shouldn't make it that big. That's what the Prime Minister deliberately wanted to radiate back then. Then the treaty was said no and the message of the people was clear: we do not want this treaty. The Prime Minister has zero-point proof that if the Netherlands decides not to sign this treaty, we will face the calamity he has predicted. That's all we're asking. That is the only thing that turned out to be the result of the referendum. Why does the Prime Minister not meet that wish of the majority of the population?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u16	I think it is fine if my words are displayed in a different way here, but they don't have to be right about that yet. Mr Van Dijk may do so here, but let me stick to my own words. Basically, a situation has grown between Europe and Russia both before 6 April and after 6 April, which has only become more pressing in the last few months, and we must do everything we can to ensure that we do not break European unity in the way we relate to Russia. That's what I think, and that's what this cabinet thinks. I said very plastically that we are not blinking. The treaty with Ukraine comes from the Vilnius Summit in December 2013 and has been translated into the political revolution in Ukraine itself. That treaty was fought by Russia from day one, by Moscow. Bert Koenders, the Foreign Minister, has therefore said for a reason that the champagne corks will pop in Moscow if that treaty goes off the table. It is in the Dutch interest that we do not take such a step. And then comes the complicated quest, but sometimes it's politically complicated. Sometimes politics isn't black and white, it's not easy. Sometimes it's complicated and then the search comes. That is why I started with the two book-supports, the two preconditions mentioned by the Christian Union and D66 in the first term, namely the search for the substantive answer to the no vote and at the same time preventing the Netherlands from harming European unity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u17	The argument put forward by the Minister today and also a few weeks ago is serious. It's just part of the debate. However, I am very critical of that. I'm telling you the truth. I'm more concerned with the way in which it's done. Because during the referendum campaign, the Prime Minister gave arguments, which he must also admit, and then you could be for or against. Eventually, it became a no. Now it is true that the cabinet actually says to the Netherlands: you cannot do this at all, because this is so very important; we stop it. That really should have been said in that campaign. It can't be that it doesn't come up until later. I'll quit in a minute, Mr. Chairman. Less than a month ago, the Prime Minister himself here in the Chamber took it up, because I heard him say: 'The failure to sign the association agreement would, in my absolute conviction, lead the other 27 Member States to continue. They'll have to settle a few things legally, but it can go on." He literally said that in the Chamber, here, so it's the truth. That's very unusual, especially if I put that next to what the Prime Minister is saying. I would like to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u18	I'm giving two responses. The first comment relates to the first half of Mr Buma's question. I believe that the cabinet, myself and others, has always brought this element to the attention of the media. If that was not enough in Mr Buma's view, I accept that. Perhaps we should have put even more emphasis on that; I would like to admit that. I have just mentioned examples of how I used the geopolitical argument and the stability argument in the run-up to 6 April. Again, I don't want to fight over that, because then you'll get a battle over size and so on. The next question is: how long does it take to find an answer? At least for too long, that's what we wrote in the letter. Then I come to the second point. Mr Buma is right about that. It is true that if the Netherlands were to say that we do not do it, and if it does not, I believe that the 27 other Member States will find a way to regulate the trade agreement in one way and perhaps other things intergovernmentally. That is true, but that does not alter the fact that the Netherlands, when the decision to remove the treaty from the table, sends a signal as a large country. We are the sixth economy of Europe and the fifth economy of the euro area, so we are not a small country, but we do have a very strong interest in European unity. The signal we then send is that we are breaking European unity. I can assure Mr Buma that this will have far-reaching consequences in Kiev and in Ukraine itself, for their attitude in Europe. The question remains as to whether Ukraine and other countries are going to participate in those other solutions that would be possible. At the moment when the Netherlands does so, the association agreement symbolises stability on the edge of Europe is on the table. Of course, Europe always finds other ways to find solutions, but that political fact and that blinking towards Russia is extremely unwise to me and not in the interests of the Netherlands. Can I add one more thing? I understand Mr Buma's attitude, and I respect it. He says: we were against the referendum; we were in favour of the association agreement; there is a statement by the Dutch electorate; we now want to come to a clear conclusion and no is no. Nevertheless, I ask him to act in the interests of the Netherlands. Mr Buma also insists that the Dutch interest should be taken into account. It is also a fact that the referendum law is not as black and white as some suggest. I ask him to look with the cabinet in Dutch interest for this way out and to leave room for us to finally agree, if we come back from Brussels with a result of negotiations, in order to prevent us from breaking that European unity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u19	The Prime Minister's question is fine. My point remains, as I said in my speech, that we do not have a Ukraine treaty ahead of us as 150 MPs and the cabinet. That question has indeed been asked to all those people and I was against it. That does something with democracy and with what we radiate and are here. That's something that's going all wrong. It lies not only with the Prime Minister, but also very much with the Chamber, but we do have to deal with it. In that position, during the referendum, it was revealed that it was a trade agreement at its core; we actually think you should vote against it, but we leave it to you to judge. In my view, the cabinet knew for a long time that it could not do that. I'm almost convinced of that, but I can't prove it. I don't think this is possible. The Prime Minister also said on 14 September that he felt that there was a very small chance that it would be possible to get out with Europe. Surely that is not consistent with the sense that we can only agree, otherwise Europe will be divided? On 14 September, the Prime Minister assumed that there was a good chance that he would return to the Netherlands without a treaty. This is not consistent with the statement here that we must sign for Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u20	Let me start with the third point. A European Council was then held on 20 and 21 October. On the basis of the conversations behind the scenes, I felt that it was possible to achieve what we wanted to achieve. I didn't have any guarantees. It could be that it would crash for the next few weeks and it wouldn't work, but I thought it could work. That was a real insight I had gained there. That's one. My response to Mr Buma's second point is that the referendum law is not black and white. It is not a corrective referendum, but a consultative referendum, which also explicitly requires that the government comes after the referendum with a confirmation or withdrawal law. Then the final point. Mr Buma has said a number of times that he thinks that we should have made this argument sound heavier in the campaign itself. I just mentioned all the quotes in which that happened. In any case, I have put myself mentally into that campaign with the arguments that it is a trade treaty, but that it is also about stability in Europe. It would contribute to making Ukraine more stable, without a membership perspective, in the interests of Europe and therefore also in the interests of the Netherlands. Russia was already becoming more aggressive, especially after the events in 2014, with Crimea and the interferences in Eastern Ukraine. It was in my head. We've been putting that forward over and over again. We can have a whole discussion about whether that was enough. If that wasn't enough, we should have done more. I think we've done enough and the argument has always come out. The fact is that there is a statement; Mr Buma is right about that. There is a statement, but I do believe that we now have a duty to do so, and that is the leadership that we, as politicians, are being asked to take into account, in the context of the scope that the law offers us, and the law gives us that space, also to look at the content of what has been discussed in the campaign and at the great interests at stake. We must find the exact path between doing justice to the outcome on the one hand and not breaking European unity on the other. That is also what I am saying to the CDA, a party to which I have not always successfully been able to appeal for cabinet policy in the Netherlands in recent years. I respect that. But to this day, I have never doubted it and I do not wish to doubt it, but I am now beginning to doubt a little bit that I would in vain appeal to the CDA in this kind of great interest. That's very personal. I also call directly on the leader of the CDA. I really ask him to leave the room to be convinced by what the cabinet comes back with from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u21	If the Prime Minister makes calls like this, I'll hold off and try to get to the content. The content remains, I say this only more firmly, that if there is a referendum and these things are going on, then it is no longer about us one hundred and fifty, about the Prime Minister or about me. That's a question that's been thrown out of your hands. I can only say that people have seen that as a real question to them. The Prime Minister has allowed the referendum law to happen before his feet. His own coalition partner supported it. Later, the Foreign Minister said he was not happy with it, but his party supported the law. There's two things left. One: the geopolitical aspects were already playing. Politics, as I say to the Prime Minister, is also saying the right things at the right time, not six months later. The second is an appeal to the Prime Minister, but it is actually too late. I really do not understand why the cabinet says all this, but it simply maintains that referendum law. At the moment, the climate treaty is in play in the Chamber. That thing's gonna shut down for six weeks. Then referendum signatures can be collected. Does the Prime Minister see fit: a referendum on the climate agreement and the Netherlands say no? Does he see it for himself: a referendum on CETA? The Prime Minister is going to say: support Buma, national interest! Why didn't the Prime Minister start repealing the referendum law the day after he said this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u22	Let me try to get all the dust off the file. Is the geopolitical argument mentioned or not enough in the campaign for 6 April? I think so. Mr Buma does not think so. I am even prepared to agree with Mr Buma if that could eventually lead to a joint position on how we should proceed now. Is it taking too long now? I do think it's taking too long. There are reasons for that, and I can mention them all here, but it's just taking too long. That seven-and-a-half month was more of a point of D66 than of the CDA, but I think it's a fair reproach. We wrote that in the letter, too. I do not agree with Mr Buma on the referendum law. That law leaves room for a trade-off. It's not a corrective referendum. It's a consultative referendum. So that does not relieve us of the obligation to find something about it in the end and to look at how we are going to deal with it at international level, especially in the case of a multilateral treaty. I also understand that Mr Buma says: I do not want to solve the problem. I get that. I get that he says: the PvdA does sister, sits with the VVD in a coalition and then the CDA has to fix it. I understand the irritation. I also understand that he's saying, "Wouldn't you like to rescind the law?" If it is up to me personally, as Mr Buma knows, it will be over tomorrow with the referenda, including the consultative referenda. I'm against it. But Mr Buma also knows what would happen politically if the cabinet were to come forward with such a proposal. What if I did what Mr Buma asked and I could convince the coalition of that? That is just the question; in that respect, I am empty-handed. Mr Buma is therefore making a successful attack there. I'm not running away from that. I'm standing there empty-handed. But let's say I managed to agree in the coalition on repealing that law. What would that mean politically in support of the way in which we now deal with this consultative referendum? Mr Buma knows that too. So if you're gonna tie all that up, my experience in 12 years of politics is that it's gonna be so hard and so big that you're never gonna get out. In view of the political reality and the great importance at stake here, I would ask Mr Buma to do the following. I'm not asking him to say right now, okay, I'm supporting what you're coming back with. But can I ask him to offer a very small bit more opening to perhaps, convinced by the combination of what we come back with and the interests at stake, give support to that outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u23	Mr Buma, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u24	It is a good thing that this is being changed, because I think it is a complete lack of leadership for a cabinet when the Prime Minister says here: as a person I am against a certain law, but I am sorry, I am Prime Minister, so we are not doing it. If it's as serious as the Prime Minister says, I say he's not just standing here in the Chamber. It's about the 17 million Dutch looking at us. They see that this Chamber and this cabinet deal with the referendum in a lousy way, in advance and now. Then there are two possibilities. Or we say to the Netherlands: sorry, annoyingly done but we continue. And we're going on, because as I just said, the climate law and CETA are coming up. Or the prime minister says, "Sorry coalition, I'm the prime minister, and we just don't do it like that." But he didn't. And so we roll on. He must indeed not look at the CDA but at his own cabinet and himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u25	I bow my head to the enormous leadership that Mr Buma would apparently show, but I find it really naive. I'm sure he knows that, too. He's now trying to use it as an argument to run away from his responsibility. I understand what he's saying, but the assessment I'm taking is that it's politically completely impossible to start a fundamental debate on the referendum law right now. Mr Buma knows that as well as I do. It is completely unrealistic, for all kinds of reasons that I do not have to spout out here. Given that fact, I say: CDA, do not hide behind it, as a party that has delivered almost all the post-war prime ministers who are responsible for the whole post-war order of this country and who has always taken responsibility for the international political interests of the Netherlands. Don't hide behind such a political argument and take responsibility. Once again, I am not asking Mr Buma to say yes to what I am coming back with. I'm not asking anyone. All I'm asking is that we leave room for the possibility that there might be a chance of convincing with the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u26	I consider the strong emphasis the Prime Minister places on the geopolitical aspect of the Ukraine Treaty to be extremely controversial. I also find it extremely complicated that the Prime Minister is now putting this forward. Does the Prime Minister seriously believe that if we had all voted yes to the Ukraine Treaty in the referendum, it would have had a significant impact on the fact that Putin would or would not have bombed civilians in Syria, that he would do military exercises along the border or that he would continue to burn in eastern Ukraine? I find the Prime Minister's assumption to be false. I think he is making an extremely annoying claim to the parliament and to the Dutch people by saying: I am going to play it like that, as if that would have a substantial impact. I would also like a response from the Prime Minister to what I said in my speech and which is also important. As long as the Netherlands is working on its gas roundabout strategy and its purchase and transit of oil and gas from Russia, it is extremely unbelievable to place such a strong emphasis on a geopolitical aspect of a treaty with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u27	Mr Grashoff would be right if I had put it that way. The mirror image of that would have been that a yes vote would have led to world peace. Then the cabinet would have used a gross exaggeration; he is quite right about that. The reflection of this is that a possible rejection by the Netherlands will weaken the European position vis-à-vis Russia. Hard guarantees I can't give at all. I can only outline how I, the Foreign Minister, the Cabinet and the European colleagues assess the situation and how serious the situation is at the moment. I am appealing to Mr Grashoff and I have also received many reactions from him in recent weeks, because GroenLinks also has a strong international wing to be open to the international political argument, in the best tradition of his party. That the SP, the PVV and the Party for Animals stay where they are, I understand; that fits with their political positioning. But I don't get it from GroenLinks. Mr Grashoff can try to exaggerate and ridicule what I have said. Fine. If that helps, so be it. It's just not what I said. He brings in the gas roundabout and everything. I will come back to the questions about gas supplies, because, of course, we must quickly reduce our dependence not only on Putin but also on the Middle East in the context of our energy security. He's absolutely right about that. However, if you put all this aside, it remains at the heart of the question whether, in this geopolitical constellation, you can be the only Member State of the European Union to show such a weakness at such an important moment, in order to be as strong as possible towards Russia. Then I can ask the Chamber to consider that, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u28	It shouldn't be any crazier with this reversal. If there was one party that fought for this treaty in the campaign, that was GroenLinks. Then the Prime Minister did not actually come out of his chair and now, six months after that, he is still trying to save this treaty, with a much too heavy emphasis on the geopolitical aspect, as he himself fortunately admits. That is an unbelievable story, and it is even more unbelievable in the light of Dutch energy policy. If the Prime Minister doesn't act on it and make no changes, he'll remain as unbelievable as he is now. That will convince the GroenLinks supporters and not a single Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u29	Okay. Mr Grashoff decides what he thinks. I have put forward on behalf of the cabinet why we consider it important not to weaken Europe's position. European unity in an uncertain time is also a Dutch interest, because the Netherlands is embedded in European cooperation. We have a co-responsibility for that. That is therefore both a direct and an indirect Dutch interest. I am absolutely prepared to call upon Mr Grashoff's spirit and say that we should have done more before 6 April. I think we have done a lot, but if it helps, I would like to say to Mr Grashoff that I have just said that to Mr Buma and say that we should have done more. I also accept the criticism that is partly justified in saying that we have been working too long since the referendum, but it is not at the heart of the matter. At the heart of the matter is whether you, as responsible politicians, are prepared to step over this shadow and say that there is a greater interest at the moment, so that you are willing to give the cabinet room for those talks. Mr Grashoff has shown this. But are you also willing to listen to the results with open ears?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u30	The Prime Minister calls for greater importance. First of all, he should have done that before. Secondly, he should not exaggerate the geopolitical point, if he sees it that way. Thirdly, if the Prime Minister really wants to make a move on that chessboard, we expect serious proposals from him who actually affects the geopolitical situation and the power that Russia draws from his energy sales.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u31	It's not or-or, is it, and-and? Mr Grashoff is quite right about the dependence on Russian gas. He's absolutely right about that, but if you do one, you don't have to leave the other, do you? Surely that does not relieve us of the duty to prevent us from weakening our European position vis-à-vis Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u32	I have listened carefully to the Prime Minister and I have heard him say that European unity is also in the interests of the Netherlands and that we have no choice but to continue with the Treaty, given Russia's attitude. In fact, the message is: we have no choice but to continue, and that is in Dutch interest. But in the past, this was also the reason for saying that the euro should be there, that Greece should be able to join the European Union and that there should be a constitutional treaty. There were all pathetic arguments about this, which were not nonsense, but the price of which was in the end that many citizens were alienated from the development of Europe. Does this whole process not feed the enormous alienation of many citizens from the national government and parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u33	This concerns our leadership, the joint leadership. I have spoken to a great many people in recent weeks, including many who voted no, who say: we understand why you are fighting for this; do your best to find an answer to that no vote in substance. This concerns all the points we mention in the letter. Those people also understand that there is a great deal of interest here, which means that we need to look for a substantive answer that does not break European unity. That is our common interest. That is what I am saying to Mr van der Staaij, who I have always known by my side on that point. I'm sure he and I can join forces and explain it well. We won't convince everyone. That too is a fact. This isn't a popular road. It would have been easier to say no is no; we are doing this. But leadership also means that sometimes you have to do things that are very important. That's what you stand for. I've said before: you should be careful not to be so busy with all of you keeping your job that you don't do your job anymore. We have to keep doing our job. If we believe in something and see the importance of something, I cannot imagine that I do not know Mr Van der Staaij by my side, then together we are also able to convince not everyone but as many people as possible of that line. Let's not kill the flag in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u34	We all speak different people, but I really cannot explain it to people who say: when it comes to the whole of Europe, I find it difficult to say that every time we have no choice and that European unity is in the Dutch interest. That's what the train always has to permeate. That's where people feel discomfort. We did not see anything in the referendum either, but if a referendum is held, you cannot say yes or no; if you say yes, it is a support in the back, and if you say no, we are going to explain why the answer should be yes. That is not a credible answer to the citizen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u35	I share that view of Mr Van der Staaij. Of the people I speak to, there are a lot of people who say: it's like the train's always going crazy. Mr Van der Staaij says the same thing. Then you continue on this subject and you ask: what exactly is going on here? On the one hand, it's about content. When you ask what it was about in the campaign, people say no accession. That's right. They also say no collective defense. I agree. It is also said that no new money, no free movement of workers. I think we can all address this in a legally binding way. That's one side of the story. At the same time, I ask: if you look at what is happening at the moment, what is the geopolitical situation and how it has deteriorated in recent months, do you understand that we are doing our best not to break European unity at the moment? A lot of people say: I get that. Not everyone says that. This isn't easy. If it were easy, we would not have had a debate on this either. I am convinced that if Mr Van der Staaij and I deal with it, together with a lot of others here, we will be able to convince a lot of people in the social debate that will take place in the coming weeks. But we can't convince everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u36	But it is quite a job to do that crediblely when you say that we have to make a fist against Russia, but that we are going to decide that there is no security guarantee for Ukraine in the treaty and we are going to explain it. It is said that we must make a strong fist against Russia, but we are going to say that no one is obliged to cooperate in military matters. It is also said that it is not a step forward for the European Union, but there is a resolution from the European Parliament and there is a Commissioner who says that, of course, it is in the interests of the unity of Europe and the fist we are making against Russia, that Ukraine should also be able to join. You can always find patient words to write all that down, but is it ultimately credible to explain? I've got a hard head in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u37	However, we cannot convince everyone. Mr Van der Staaij just mentioned these elements. Mr Buma also said that the Treaty should not, in principle, cover those elements. The problem, however, is that a lot of these things are gradually being portrayed by politicians at very senior European level, so it is also likely to become part of the legal history that the treaty is about that. That is why I am looking for a legally binding declaration to clarify these points and thereby bring the Treaty back to its essence. If you do so, I am sure that you will not weaken your position vis-à-vis Russia, but strengthen it by allowing the treaty to continue unexpectedly. If you do not, if you remove the signature, I fear that the effect, as I have outlined, will occur. Quite a few questions have already been answered in the interrupting debates, but that is in fact always the case, Mr President, when you chair when I am in the Chamber. I have not yet answered Mr Grashoff's justified question about the fight against corruption and what the Netherlands can do to support Ukraine in this respect. The Association Agreement provides a basis for the fight against corruption. The Netherlands is also bilaterally active in this field. I have also often spoken to the Ukrainian President about it. In the field of constitutional reform, the Netherlands has specific institutional knowledge that can benefit a country such as Ukraine. The Matra programme of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs offers scope for projects. As a cabinet, we invest around €750,000 in projects that aim at combating corruption. From the Stability Fund, the Netherlands finances, among other things, a project of Transparency International, which tackles corruption within the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. Bilateral support can also continue without the association agreement. We will certainly do the same if that would fall unexpectedly. We will also intensify that, but with the association agreement........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But even without that treaty, a great deal can go on. I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u38	I have listened with great attention to everything the Prime Minister has said. I have indicated that we would like to give the cabinet grinning teeth six weeks before the letter. I do have a question for the Prime Minister. If he looks back at the past year, does he feel like the cabinet has misjudged things, should have done things differently? If so, what else should the cabinet have done? It seems that the Prime Minister is doing a little too much to talk about things, especially when it comes to the way things were, while the cabinet has dropped a few stitches. Different parties have said at different times that things had to be different. Every time it was, no, no, no. I'm grinning my teeth right now. I would ask the Prime Minister to look back on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u39	I can do that in good faith, but Mr Verhoeven will allow me to defend myself on the criticism that we did not mention the geopolitical argument. If so many people say it wasn't enough, then of course those people are right. We would have had to do much more to make that geopolitical argument before 6 April. I've indicated where that did happen. Mr Verhoeven knows the joke about that one ghost rider. No, I'm looking at 100.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u40	I don't know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u41	Well, it's a well-known joke that goes here, too. If so many people say that we should have done more, I would like to admit that I am wrong in that regard. I also mentioned the second point in the letter. That has to do with time. There are mitigating circumstances, such as the brexi-affectingum. The head in Brussels was not like this, but what is the net effect? Today is November 8th. The referendum was held on 6 April. We've been seven months and a few days. That's a long time. That's what I write in the letter. That's an unpleasant long time. I understand that this already causes irritation in itself. On these two points, I admit that we could have done it more intensively on the first and on the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u42	That's obvious. Let's take a look ahead. Looking back is nice, but you should never do that too long. We now have the letter and the forthcoming summit in Europe. I believe that the Prime Minister will return on 16 December. That is also the last moment that the cabinet can come up with something. Did I get that correctly? Isn't there another round, even though we're almost there? I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u43	No one really wants that. Not you, not the Chamber, not us, nor the European colleagues. Everything is aimed at reaching conclusions at that European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u44	I know the area a little bit. The irony of the Prime Minister's commitment is that tonight in the Kremlin, as far as they are paying attention and not dealing with America, the champagne will be uncorked and the vodka will be caught. There's an email to Vladimir Putin: it's even more beautiful than we thought. There will be no military cooperation, the Ukrainians cannot enter Europe, there will be no money and fill in. The Prime Minister says: we are doing this to Russia. You're helping the Ukrainians out of the rain in the drip. You're going to add all kinds of things that the Ukrainians might have hoped for. You're putting them even more into the hands of the Russians, because they can't do anything anymore, and you won't be able to help them. The whole debate is not about that, but what you are talking about is that you are even more lagging behind the Ukrainians. This is exactly what the Russians want: lock them up and let them go nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u45	On this point, Mr Monasch is opposed to Mr Buma, who claimed exactly the opposite. I agree with Mr Buma. We are not adding anything to the treaty. We make it clear what the treaty is about and not what it is about. That is necessary because there has been an enormous amount of noise. If you are not careful, it also threatens to become part of the history of law and at some point get its own reality. What we are doing with the legally binding declaration is 'boiling back' to what it is all about. It is a treaty on the fight against corruption, economic cooperation, supporting Ukraine in strengthening the rule of law and democracy and all related matters. We do so because we have an interest in stability at the borders of Europe. Everything that has been said about it by important European leaders in recent years and is causing confusion, all these things, we are bringing back into the legally binding declaration to what it really is. That is what we are striving for. That does not change the treaty. We don't. No, we are making sure that we are legally binding on what the treaty is about and not about. This is very important in order to avoid any misunderstanding in the future, including the interpretation of the Treaty. That is why it must also be legally binding. In this respect, Mr Buma was right and Mr Monasch was completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u46	You can only say that if you had addressed the arguments first. But you started with a passionate plea why it was so good for the sake of world peace, for the sake of Syria and for the sake of other countries to do so against Russia. But all the conditions you add are conditions in favour of Russia. Because the Ukrainians are now locked up by your terms. Don't come up with what we're bringing back the treaty to. You say that this is necessary to counter Russia's threat. But all you're doing is pushing Ukraine into the hands of the Russians with those conditions even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u47	No, Mr. Chairman, this doesn't make any sense at all. We're not gonna change the treaty. We are going to ensure that there can be no misunderstandings and that this is also legally binding. Because there are a lot of misunderstandings. You can say anything about that, but that is the essence of what we want to achieve. Mr Monasch then says: yes, but the things that you make clear that the treaty is not about it, with a legally binding definition of what it is about, are all things that Ukraine might want. Could be, I don't know. I'm not about Ukrainian ambitions. But they'll be outside this treaty. So this treaty itself is not about it. Why is it so important now that this treaty does not go away? That is, of course, because of what is in the Treaty. The treaty is indeed about a lot of things; I have just mentioned them. It is also important because the Treaty is an important symbol in itself. It is a symbol of a Europe which, with several countries in the Eastern Partnership, is of course particularly important to Ukraine, because of its enormous size and geopolitical and strategic location, is working on stability in those countries, strengthening the rule of law and strengthening democracy and thus combating instability. We are making it more difficult for a country such as Russia to mess around and weaken such a country. That is exactly why I started my speech. If the neighbors of your neighbors invade people and you don't do anything about it, if they invade your neighbors and you don't do anything about it, if the whole street is about lawlessness, where a normal way of dealing with people is called into question, you shouldn't look crazy when you're threatened at some point yourself. So, as a Europe, you have to make one fist, stand strong and stand strong against Russia. The withdrawal of the association agreement weakens our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u48	Finally, Mr Monasch. You all have a second term, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u49	That is not true if you withdraw it and then come forward with a new proposal. Then you just stick to the referendum bill. The point is that the Prime Minister starts his speech here after a trade treaty suddenly was something that threatens world peace... with the claim that we must act against Russia. All he does is push the Ukrainians even more into Russia's hands. They can't come here, they don't get any money, and there's no military cooperation. If you take that threat so seriously, you have to keep all these things intact, but what does the Prime Minister do? Because he was flogged back by Mrs Merkel in Brussels, he suddenly comes up with very different arguments. It can't be. You have to be consistent, because the arguments put forward by the Prime Minister are arguments which put Putin out very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u50	This is in danger of becoming a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u51	Yeah, I was just about to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u52	I had exactly the same questions in the second round of this interruption. I answered it then. I'd give the same answer now, but maybe I shouldn't, because then we're repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u53	I don't think that's a good idea. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We now move on to the second term of office. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds, one third of the time in the first term, including tabling motions. Mr Bontes has waived his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u54	Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the question that I wanted to ask in the event of an interruption, but only now in the second term, as you wish. The Prime Minister just said literally: we are not going to change that treaty; we are going to add a legal statement to the treaty. That is, of course, the problem. So that legal statement is a sweetener, an empty shell. I'd like to get a response to that. The Prime Minister literally said we're not going to change the treaty. Listening to the Prime Minister, I get a déjà vu. This reminds me of the referendum in 2005. Even then, we heard threats. It would be war if that constitution didn't come. None of that happened. It was shameless blackmail. Today, the Prime Minister is doing exactly the same thing, while it is only one thing: respect the outcome and get that treaty off the table. To that end, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to implement Article 11 of the Advisory referendum Act and to immediately submit a repeal law on the approval of the EU-Ukraine Association Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1165]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u55	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his input. He put it this evening as follows: it would do many great things if we now threw the treaty in the trash. But he also said: you shouldn't be in this business all the pressure to keep your job, so busy that you can't do your job anymore. In doing so, he summarized the core of what we need to do here, embedded in the task of a representative of the people. We must do something to combine the results with our national interest. As representatives of the people, we combine the will of the people with the national interest. We ask the question what is best for the Netherlands, or as I have often said during this campaign: as a politician, you put your ear to listen, but do not necessarily leave it hanging. The challenge for this cabinet is to do something with that result, so that it does justice to the outcome, but also to our interests, stability, security and prosperity. In this light, I would like to encourage the cabinet to continue its efforts and to do everything possible to get something out of that outcome that does justice to the concerns, to the fear that this agreement would be a stepping stone to Ukraine's EU membership, that the agreement would require the Netherlands to cooperate in military matters, that this agreement would provide a bag of money and that we would import a stream of workers or corruption with this agreement. The commitment must be a result of negotiation that meets the concerns that we have heard everywhere. It is clear that that is the direction of the government. We support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u56	Mr. Chairman. It is not up to the Prime Minister to interpret what it means no. There are too many reasons for this. The "no" means only one thing, namely to table a repeal law in order to be able to withdraw the Association Treaty. We have co-signed the motion of the SP, because we want this cabinet to come forward with a repeal proposal as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u57	Mr. Chairman. Putting the Dutch interest at the centre, I hear the Prime Minister say. Apparently, the Prime Minister knows what that is: it's his interpretation. That is how the Prime Minister is dealing with the electorate's ruling. Actually, he says the voter doesn't get it. In doing so, the Prime Minister cancels the democratic contract with the citizen to honour his contract with the EU, with Brussels, with European Commissioners without a democratic mandate. He determines what the Dutch interest is, against the will and against the healthy insight of the electorate. 'Cause the voter's not stupid. He is well aware of his importance, and that is not a treaty with Ukraine. The voter is always right. The Minister is undermining this law. He declares the voter to be an immaculate, ill-informed asshole people and calls that leadership. He declared the electorate silly and naive when it came to geopolitical relations in connection with a treaty that was first a trade treaty when the Prime Minister thought he could bring in ratification by reducing the treaty. Now that that doesn't work, he's trying to talk about the war and peace bay. The EU must not blink to the Russian bear. The Prime Minister does not blink at the electorate and the Chamber. He looks his own citizens unbroken in the eyes and says: you don't understand, you don't even understand your own interests; I think for you and now stop whining. The Prime Minister has therefore terminated the contract. That has a name, two names even: arrogance and opportunism. If this trajectory does not result in a repeal law, then this episode will remain attached to this cabinet for a very long time, but also to this Prime Minister and his party, the VVD. This is damaging to him and his party, but especially very damaging to the political process, which many citizens will be disappointed to avoid. That's very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u58	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that tonight, as it were, it is a choice between headache and abdominal pain: doing what is most sensible with fresh reluctance. I also called it "crunching teeth." However, D66 still wants to deal responsibly with the situation that has arisen in the last seven months after the referendum. We have thought carefully about this. We need a serious answer to the no vote. That serious answer must respond to all the objections that I have heard repeatedly, every day, every evening, day in, day out in the campaign in all those rooms. In any case, the cabinet indicated in the letter that it would like to try. We want to give it this opportunity, as I said in the first term, but again, not heartily after the way it all happened. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution. Since the Prime Minister himself started the bombings, I repeat a motion that I tabled two weeks ago. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Russia in the UN Security Council recently vetoed a resolution calling for the cessation of bombing of Aleppo in Syria and a ceasefire to enable humanitarian aid;]] [[whereas European unity is the best response to Russian foreign policy leading to destabilisation of Europe's borders;]] [[Whereas this is not only about Crimea and Eastern Ukraine but also about Syria and the hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians trapped in Aleppo;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to additional sanctions on behalf of the European Union on Russia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u59	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I said in my first term that the automatic monitoring of the outcome of an advisory referendum does not meet the responsibility of government and parliament. The government is right to say that. That is why the government always has the right to indicate the interests involved in this treaty. The Prime Minister has put that on a heavy footing. For the sake of balance, I would also like to highlight the other side of the coin. If the government ignores the outcome of the referendum, it can also seriously damage the citizens' confidence. It is not so much a burden of misunderstandings about the Treaty, something which should be repaired by tutoring or package leaflets, but it is above all a burden of distrust towards a Europe that has been constantly deepened, and a Europe that does not have enough message of acceptance, especially among the national population. That mistrust is on good grounds. I hope that the cabinet will also be very keen to keep that side of the coin in mind. We will undoubtedly discuss this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u60	Mr. Chairman. At the end of whatever comes out of this process, the Netherlands will not feel that democracy has come closer or that decision-making in the country has become clearer. I think that in the end people will only be more cynical about the way in which the House of Representatives and the government operate. That goes for the collective. I would like to say the following about the debate we are having today, also in the direction of the Prime Minister. It seems that today we were debating why the treaty with Ukraine is so good. I can also have that debate, because that treaty is indeed good. But something happened: I told you. A referendum was held. With our eyes open, we stepped into it. It also happened in front of the Prime Minister. That's what changed it and what makes it different. All the arguments I hear now should have been weighed at that time. Whether it was fun or not, it should have just been said at the time: this referendum may be advisory, but beware, we cannot do this for some reason. Now the cabinet will continue to negotiate in Brussels. That's up to the cabinet. After all, a cabinet is allowed to negotiate. I say this, which makes me so critical of the content of this negotiation. It is said that there is no money from this treaty. No, but do we honestly tell them that EUR 11 billion is going to Ukraine? That is not from the Treaty, but such a sum goes to Ukraine. That's not told. It is said that security guarantees are not provided by the Convention. No, of course not, because that is not what the European Union is about. That's what NATO's about. Article 5 of NATO does not apply, because Ukraine is not a member of NATO. That is the second point. The third point is that it is said that the Treaty does not result in EU membership. That is true, but under Article 49, Ukraine will be able to apply for membership tomorrow. We're probably not gonna do that, but none of this has anything to do with the treaty. That is why I am so critical of negotiating for something that comes with the Treaty when that is not the answer. The cabinet can do that: that is up to the cabinet. But it is not an answer to the outcome of the referendum. My final point is this. Then I'll stop, so don't be afraid, Mr. Chairman. I find it truly unprecedented that the Prime Minister, after all this, says: you also understand that the referendum law is going ahead. No, I don't understand! I also think it is totally irresponsible, given the mess this referendum has already brought on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u61	I didn't see the CDA during the campaign. Three points are always mentioned: military cooperation, membership and the money that would go to Ukraine. It seems to me that Mr Buma is now making a link between the association agreement, which does not contain any of these three points, and that it could all be done. Is Mr Buma now of the opinion that the three things he mentioned today all stem from the association agreement, or is he not? I would like to be clear about this, because in this way he really scares the people again of something that could have been made clear in the debate a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u62	Those are at least relatively big words at the end of this debate. They deserve an answer. What I say is that all of these three things, namely money, security guarantees and membership, are not in the Treaty. So it's weird when we say to the Netherlands: we've brought in something; it's not happening. No, it didn't happen already. Then it just turns out something else, and I think that's gonna make people even more cynical. I'm serious. 'Cause what turns out to be? There's definitely money going to Ukraine. Not by this treaty. There's going to be 11 billion. Only the treaty doesn't do anything about it. So it doesn't help or it doesn't get any less. But let's face it. It is good and it has to be, because this country needs to be helped to make it more democratic and safe. But it's not about this treaty. That's my point. Membership of the European Union? The CDA is very opposed to that. The cabinet is against it. You're against it. We're not gonna let that happen. It's not gonna happen. So that whole statement just has nothing to do with me, because it wasn't in the treaty. Security guarantees? It had to be added that the European Union was going to provide security guarantees. The European Union does not even have an army. No, that's what NATO does. In itself, others have said that too. I do not think military cooperation is so crazy at all. We are now being said very loudly: we are not doing that. I'm sorry to hear that. So your point is correct, it wasn't in the treaty, but we have to be precise. Let us not say: do not be afraid, there is no money going through this treaty to Ukraine. There are other ways of getting money to Ukraine. Let's not fool the people either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u63	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u64	Mr Buma makes it very clear that both membership and military cooperation and the funds that go to Ukraine are not the result of the Ukraine Treaty. However, he is very angry that the cabinet is going to try to make it clear that these matters do not arise from the Ukraine Treaty. I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u65	Then you are very different from what you yourself said in the campaign. It's okay, but I think it's very special. A referendum is not a motivated question why you are for or against. We can interpret, but I also spoke to people at the time, and perhaps others who were just very angry with us and therefore voted against. I don't think that's a good argument, but yes, it was a referendum, so it's okay. No justification is required. You can't read the reasons. We can try, but I think it's unwise. Again, why do I think people get cynical? They see that eventually money goes to Ukraine. Then they say, "Yes, but the government said it wouldn't happen." Then we say: no, that was not because of the treaty, it happened in a different way. That is inexplicable and unwise. The cabinet's moving on. I don't think that's helping. Anyway, we'll see what the cabinet comes back with. I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u66	I just saw a plea from the Prime Minister to the CDA. He would very much like you to join him in his search for support for the treaty. But the CDA has been clear from day one, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u68	"No is no, we do not agree with the treaty. Submit the repeal law now."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u69	My group has supported Mr Van Bommel's motion, along with a lot of others here. I'm still holding on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u70	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u71	Then why do you write in a newsletter to your members: "The CDA will wait and see how the cabinet in Brussels continues"? No isn't it, according to the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u72	Yes. But I really need your help. What's wrong with that? 'Cause, of course, I'm just waiting to see what the cabinet's gonna do. That makes sense, doesn't it? That's what I'm saying here. Only I was just explaining that what the cabinet is doing now, I don't think it responds to the question people had. By the way, it is good that Mr Van Dijk reads the CDA letter. That could be a double membership, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u73	I thought you'd say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u74	I'm serious. I think Mr Van der Staaij just said the same thing. It's up to a cabinet to negotiate, but don't ask me to give it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u75	"The CDA will wait and see how the cabinet continues in Brussels, but with an 'inlay sheet' to the treaty, the voter's confidence has not been regained." With this, Mr Buma is opening the door. So if the Prime Minister comes up with something more than an "inlege sheet," Mr Buma suggests in his newsletter, then the CDA can agree. Isn't that quite different from the fact that in April he said "no is no"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u76	I really like it, but I wrote that text myself. The author of that text is the same person that's standing here with the same brain, and that means what I just said. I still think it is a beautiful text, and I still find it strange for the Chamber to say: Cabinet, don't go to Brussels anymore. If the Prime Minister wants to do that, he has to do it. But again, don't ask for applause, because I don't see how it's going to take away cynicism. And don't forget, we're all dealing with this deeper problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u77	That cynicism which Mr Buma touched and which he also wrote in his letter of Members is part of this debate. Mr Buma and I are both opposed to referenda. We're both against this drug. And what do I see Mr Buma doing now? He makes that tool which is clearly "advising" with cow letters, something that is binding and thus dismisses the entire Chamber from the obligation to do its job. So he's worsening the ailment. I don't understand that very well. Can he explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u78	I'd be happy to. I did the same in the first term. What's the point with that word "advising"? It's not about advice. That is why a "consultative referendum" is also a goddess. Other consultative referendums are not seen by the public as advisory either. If the population does what politics wanted in advance, then it is implemented and if the population does not do what politics wants, then it is not implemented. That is what we mean by "consultative"; that is not possible. Advice means asking for an opinion, but not asking for an opinion. After all, the question is: are you for or against the Ukraine Treaty? I know what these people are thinking. They're thinking, "We're finally gonna get to talk." That's the mistake we all made here. We've all been there. We're all in on that. There's one thing I'm saying: we have to get out of there. The Prime Minister's not gonna do it, you're not gonna do it, because you're just gonna do it for six months, and it has to stop. As I have just said, we are going to have more referendums that are going to happen, and then we are all going to be standing here and wondering what happened again. Then we all look back at the CDA and the Prime Minister begs me again: Buma, come save me! I'm okay with it, but saving it starts with the cabinet taking responsibility for it and stopping it. It is a representative democracy or not. If it's not a representative democracy, you're giving up the choices. That impression may have been given to the people. The only thing that is then said is: yes, but that was not the intention. I just don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u79	The reality is that we have lost that debate here in this Chamber. This has resulted in a law for an advisory referendum, and you are implementing that law or not. In this case, I do not quite understand that representatives of the representative democracy are Mr Buma and myself, who do not come to the conclusion that there is still a role for Parliament to do something with that advice that weighs the national interest against other interests and that you have also tried to weigh up what you have heard from all those voters who have shown up. I was there with Mr Verhoeven. I've heard those people and I've tried to translate them. I do not see Mr Buma doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u80	But this isn't a translation, is it? I'm serious about that, and that's why I'm so hard on it. This is not a translation; that is to say: Sign. When the Prime Minister says 'this is a matter of national importance', it is of course very strange that he then goes to Brussels with the message: if we do not bring it in, we are against it. What does Brussels think? He has just said in his own country "this is a national interest, so sign," so the man is going to sign and if he doesn't, he eventually contradicts himself again, because then the national interest was not big enough. How can you clamp yourself like that? I think that's incredible; I'm serious about that. The Prime Minister has put himself completely on hold and he is now coming to Buma and saying: come and save us! No, I see that a referendum was held; that was real and that was not good. I ask the Prime Minister one thing: do not do that again. And what's he saying? He says, "You know I'm not gonna stop that, of course." Again, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u81	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his first-term response. I have already said it, and I would like to repeat it: the PvdA wants to give the cabinet room now to give a place to the main objections of the no-vote. It remains that it is important that we have a good relationship with Ukraine and that this agreement, this association agreement, can contribute to that. It is a trade treaty, but it is also a treaty that contributes to stability in the region and to improving human rights and democracy in Ukraine. It also states that the result of the referendum was as it was and that we want to respect it. It is a tough and frustrating process; we have seen this in today's debate, but we expect the Prime Minister and the Cabinet to give us a conclusion on this for the European Council on 15 and 16 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u82	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the government did not give a clear answer to the Pechtold and Others motion. (34550-13);]] [[considers that action should be taken on the advisory outcome expressed by a large majority of voters, namely the rejection of the EU-Ukraine Association Treaty;]] [[Calls on the Government to implement Article 11 of the Advisory referendum Act and to submit before 1 December 2016 a repeal law on the approval of the EU-Ukraine Association Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1167]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u83	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij repeated the feeling among many people of a pervasive Europe. I agree with him; we have also discussed this in the first term. I do think that we should also keep an eye on that side of the matter. It is the intention of me and the cabinet to include this aspect in the discussion that we will have in the Chamber, even when we talk about 60 years of the Treaty of Rome and the Bratislava process, which comes from the Brexireféendum. In recent years too, the cabinet has been focusing on this: a Europe that goes back to its core tasks, namely a strong market, security, external borders and migration, and does not deal with all kinds of other issues. I would therefore like to make a commitment to Mr Van der Staaij that we shall be discussing this in much more detail as far as I am concerned and that we will also include this aspect separately. At the same time, I appeal to Mr Van der Staaij not to make that point in relation to this referendum, because in my opinion, for all the reasons I mentioned in the first term, we do not serve the Dutch interest. I therefore agree with his argument. I'm just asking him not to make that point by being against this now. So my request is actually to consider that. Actually, I have the same request to the CDA. Mr Buma has not so much the point of a pervasive Europe as the general point of 'no is no', the democratic argument. I get that. At the same time, in the first period, I outlined the urgent reasons I see for trying to honour the no as well as possible. I think that is more than what Mr Buma said here, but that will be evident when we come back from Brussels; I think that is more than as small as Mr Buma is now making it, and at the same time keeping an eye on the European interest. On sanctions against Russia, a motion has been tabled by D66. So I'm gonna go into that later, if that's okay. Mrs Thieme asked me to base the interpretation of the results. Of course, that's always vulnerable. I have often said that this was the most pressing point in the debate in Nieuwsuur between Diederik Samsom of the Labour Party and Emile Roemer of the Socialist Party and in all the points mentioned. But I'm not the only one. I mentioned what Bart Nijman and Thierry Baudet said about this after the referendum. There's no automatism that should be no. Anyway, I put that forward in the first term. Now I come to the three motions. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 1165. We enforce the law. The motion seems to suggest something else. We will come as soon as possible with either a confirmation or a withdrawal law. The motion in part No. 1166 by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Sjoerdsma are about sanctions against Russia. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. We very much share the indignation about what Russia is doing in Syria. That also requires an answer. At the same time, we must also note that there is currently no shared picture in Europe of the use of additional sanctions. I agree with the authors, but our first priority must now be to maintain sanctions linked to the events in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. With that remark, I would like to leave the opinion on the motion to the House. With the content, with the direction, the cabinet simply agrees. I would point out, however, that this is very difficult in Europe. This proved to be the case at the last European Council. We must not break European unity. It is very important, also on this point. The motion in part No. 1167 with the same arguments as those with which I dissuade the first motion. I believe I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u84	I asked the following question. Does the Prime Minister share my view that he has said: we are not going to change the treaty, we are only going to use a legal statement as an addition to the treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u85	As indicated in the letter, we are committed to a legally binding declaration. We are not focusing on changing the text of the Treaty, but on a legally binding declaration. That is important, because it can become part of the history of the law and with that any misunderstanding is gone. That statement is therefore part of the drafting of the Treaty. This gives a compelling context to the Treaty at the time of ratification by the European Union. Judges must also take this into account when interpreting Community law and the association agreement in particular. So that statement has a lot of meaning. It also ensures that all kinds of misunderstandings that have arisen are removed, not in our campaign, but in everything that has been said about it outside the Netherlands and by all kinds of others, and that uncertainties in coherence are removed within the Treaty. That is different from what Mr Monasch said, namely: you restrict the treaty with it. No, we are legally binding on what it is and what it is not about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u86	It was already clear to me that the treaty had to go into the trash can. The Prime Minister doesn't want to do that. He bets on a legally binding statement. He acknowledges that the treaty itself is not being changed. That makes me see that that's an empty shell casing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u87	That's just not true. That's just bullshit. But that's what we describe in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u88	Has there been a question left, Mr Ten Broeke?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u89	Yes. I have another question about the second motion, the Verhoeven and Sjoerdsma motion on sanctions. The Prime Minister actually says he likes it. At the same time, he pointed out that he did not see any one-two-three aid being granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u90	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u91	Now I have the following difficulty. I think everyone likes that motion. The big question, however, is whether there will not be the same thing on this subject: if the Netherlands is going to argue on its own for something that is not going to happen, then you can only show once again that the European Union cannot agree on this. So it is sympathetic, but failure may be just as harmful. I think that was the answer we heard last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u92	Yeah, that's true. I like the motion because you'd like it. However, there is also a risk. I do not think that risk is as great as the rejection of the association agreement. Nor should we exaggerate if this does not happen immediately. It is also a step-by-step approach. But the fact is that the realization of A28 will not succeed in the short term. The most important thing now is to maintain the unity there is with regard to the sanctions associated with the occupation of Crimea and the interference with Eastern Ukraine. The good news is that the noise you have heard here and there is that we may have to loosen the sanctions a little bit, is actually gone and that everyone says: no, we have to maintain the sanctions. That's the good news. However, the creation of a new set of sanctions consistent with what is currently happening in Syria, which is being called for in the motion, does not appear to me, either, to be one-two-three. That's also kind of the dilemma I'm having. Perhaps that is a reason for Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Verhoeve to look at this together. Maybe there's something lyrical to come up with. I could just imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u93	We can do it till Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u94	We can do that until the vote. Perhaps both groups could take a look at it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u95	The Prime Minister said earlier on a similar motion: it is really not going to work in Europe, and that is why I am not advising her. Now he's taking a different approach. Does this mean that suddenly there is more chance that this will be achieved in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u96	It's a dime on its side if you look at the way of advising. It is not a dime on its side if you look at the situation in Europe. I don't see it one-two-three happening. That has not changed; Mr Van der Staaij is right. But then you come to the advice. I think we are all, or at least a lot here, sympathetic to such a movement. Every time I say no, it leads to the accusation, which I understand very well, that the government is apparently against it. This was said here and there in the first term. That's not true, but I want to prevent you from fighting for something that then harms the image of unity. This cannot be compared with the rejection of the association agreement, which is of a much greater order than a failure to debate additional sanctions. But it's not helping. When you look at the words, I think it should be possible to solve that textually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u97	We have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and his officials for the answers. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate through another medium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-37.u98	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
