ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. Today, the first-term answer from the government is at issue. I understand from the clerks that a lot of written answers have been sent to the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	I have a brief comment before the Secretary of State begins. The amendment in part No. Nine, I'm moving in. I'll turn that into a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Van Wijngaarden amendment (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I thank Members for offering the opportunity to discuss the bill now. It's a bill with a long history, covering a lot of questions. Sometimes these questions are very practical, but sometimes they are very clear in principle. I also very much understand the struggles and dilemmas that I recognized in the first term of the Chamber. It's a trade-off. On the one hand: do you even want people to do this activity, gambling, and do you want to expand it with online variants? On the other hand, do you have to leave something that happens, unregulated and leave people deprived of the guarantees that the government can give? Traditionally, people have had a lot of fun playing games of chance. That is not something we ourselves have introduced. Most people deal with that in a healthy way, but a small part of the players have huge problems with it. A gambling addiction is a problem in itself, but unfortunately it also leads to many other derivative problems for the person and his immediate environment, which means that we as a government certainly have a duty to try to prevent gambling addiction, protect the consumer in that respect and, if that addiction has unfortunately occurred or if someone becomes a risk player, protect them, ensure that there are enough safeguards and as a government to fulfil our duty of care. We must also impose strict rules on the providers of such activities before they are allowed to offer such an activity, and we must regulate that they play an important role in the care of the player. In addition, it is, of course, also important to combat crime and illegality and to ensure that someone who takes a gamble does not do so against a 'bottled' game but in fair conditions, so that he can assume that the chance of losing his money is not even greater because the game is rigged. We are now trying to regulate the practice that has already been created by technological developments and also because people with games of chance see opportunities and offer activities in them. Hundreds of thousands of people already participate in online gambling. Much of the offer is legal in the sense that people who run that company have a license in many countries, except in the Netherlands. The activity itself doesn't feel like something one shouldn't do at all.I've noticed that myself when I talk to people about it, except if one had driven to Belgium first, for example, because that's where it can be. Even if, in principle, you want people not to do this activity, there is something to be said for regulation, so that people are not deprived of the protection and guarantees that we can now give with this bill. Many questions have also been asked, apart from the amendments. I have tried to answer these questions in writing as best I can. I will not repeat the answers here. I think the most pressing questions come back to me in the amendments, and I would therefore like to move on to the discussion of the amendments. Or Members still have questions about how to answer the questions. They must have gambled on a long introduction!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	I wouldn't look at MPs so invitingly, or they're gonna ask questions. Look, there you go!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	That's what it's gonna be, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State shouldn't have taken that chance. The Secretary of State says it's happening now, so regulate it well. Can I hear in the general introduction of the Secretary of State why he regulates it so unbridled? It is not just the amendments that we have tabled and the motions that were previously adopted by the Chamber. So why is it so unbridled, for everyone and with a number of conditions, and not much stricter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mrs Van Toorenburg calls it 'unbridled', but fortunately she also points out that there are many conditions attached to it. Compared to other systems in Europe, we will not have the easiest system to put it mildly. There really are a lot of tough demands attached to it. The Chamber has put forward suggestions to tighten it up a little bit. I shall come back to that later on in the debate on the amendments. I'm not just negative about that. I think that we are all struggling here with the dilemma of wanting people who are not able to handle it properly not even to be tempted, and on the other hand the reality that this is happening, even if you regulate it, and then try to curb those activities as effectively as possible. However, I believe that anyone who meets the qualitative requirements should be able to move on that market. I do not think that we will be competing with four responsible providers who compete against the illegal market, but there is never a guarantee that they will no longer have a better result than with ten responsible providers, who, with their offer, meet quality standards and care obligations, unlike the illegal market, which we have no control over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	The Secretary of State rightly says, "I think so." Why, knowing what the risks are, wouldn't you choose to have a few companies that have proven that they're behaving well organized something of an offer? The CDA has always said: modernisation okay, but liberalisation no way. Why didn't you choose that? Why not apply the imperative of land-basedness? Fortunately, the Brexit has one advantage: we will be done with this madness in the Cayman Islands and the other English islands, because they will no longer be Europe. By the way, you will get a move to Malta immediately, and then we are just as far from home. So why not offer a very small opening to see how that goes? Why right away, in a bit of a VVD way: come on, guys, why don't you swim on our beaches?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	As a member of the VVD I could be a variant that I would strongly defend liberalisation, but I do not recognize that the market is being opened up. On the contrary, the market is regulated enormously, apart from a few specific points as a limit on the number of suppliers and the country-specificity. We are also dealing with European legislation. We see that countries that have made that choice are now returning at their pace because of the same regulation. The goal is that people who want to play the game online, do so as much as possible to parties that have a legally licensed offer. As much of that offer as possible, we should not release it, but regulate it. The government must control that with regulation. I think, on the contrary, that a very limited opening-up to those who do well will lead to much more liberalisation, in the sense that there will be much more room for those who do not believe that they are being obeyed. Of course, we will try to combat them by means of enforcement, but we will have to be realistic about their success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	It's a choice. The Secretary of State is hiding behind European rules, but we all know that if you raise the level of protection, many more restrictions are allowed within Europe too. That choice could have been made. I figured it out. I'm a lawyer, so I know why I'm saying this. It has not been chosen, and I regret it so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	It's like this really fast. It is true that, through the amendments, many subjects will come along, but it is a very important and fundamental subject. For example, the threat of more addiction is very real. The Christian Union Group is deeply concerned about this. At various times, the Secretary of State has expressed the hope that, for example, the Channelization rate will go to 80%. The Council of State says of this: that is very much to be seen. All sorts of hopes have been expressed. My question is: what if that hope turns out to be vain? How can we keep the finger on the wrist? If an evaluation really shows that it was quicksand after all, is the cabinet prepared to look at this again in a very fundamental way? There is so much at stake; I am thinking of people who are in danger of becoming addicted to gambling and of what effect that has on families. Is the Cabinet prepared to adjust to new insights?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u13	It would be very easy just to say yes to that. This cabinet has a predetermined horizon, until March next year. If a subsequent cabinet is given an evaluation of the fact that the purpose of this operation, namely channeling, is unexpectedly not a success, then I think that the cabinet should focus its attention on how it will ensure that measures are put in place to ensure that, if they are playing the game, people do so in a protected environment. That is the purpose of this whole regulation, which is bound by limitations. That's why there's a solid evaluation in it. The elements that are now included in the evaluation are very much focused on the protection of the player. The evaluation does not consider whether companies can earn a nice living. That evaluation is really aimed at protecting the player. I think, but then I'm going to predict a little bit, that the Chamber and the Cabinet will look at it with this look at it at the time of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u14	It is a very fundamental point. I really ask for a reflection on this point from the Secretary of State. Earlier at the hearing, which will undoubtedly be the case now in the public gallery behind me, there were a number of people who are just going to make a lot of money with this law. They get the opportunity to make a lot of money legally. At whose expense is that? Of people with sometimes a very narrow scholarship, with the threat of addiction. So it is true, as Mr Van Toorenburg said, that we are at risk of falling from one extreme to another. What if it doesn't work out? I understand that the Secretary of State cannot rule over his grave, but what guidelines does he give in the evaluation on the real threat of addiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u15	I'd like to take away the suggestion that this is because of this bill. The threat of addiction is there. The people who make a lot of money are already there; they are doing so illegally now. They do not now have to bear all kinds of burdens or take all kinds of care measures. It would therefore be less of a dilemma if no one were to play and no one was addicted when choosing not to regulate. Unfortunately, we don't have that option. So the option is to go along with something on which Mr Segers and I have a slightly different position in principle. I think we can leave the responsibility to the individual to do this to a controlled degree and ensure excesses in a decent way. But apart from that fundamental difference of opinion, the choice is simply between addiction in an illegal market or trying to limit it in a legal market. In my view, this law is aimed at the latter. Of course, it doesn't give the comfort of saying to anyone who offers online gambling: you're wrong. People will be doing well later, but they are doing better than they need to do now. The main point of the evaluation is indeed the effect on the players. Have we been able to protect them well enough? Are additional measures needed? I am thinking a little ahead of time: for example, does the Ksa have enough enforcement opportunities at the time, or is it precisely because of certain embedded thresholds which prevent the good providers from achieving the channelization? Or is it all hopeless? You'll have to conclude that from such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u16	There are two basic principles. We're going from illegal to legal. We're assuming that people are changing massively. That's the first premise. We also assume that gambling addiction does not increase excessively. These are two important benchmarks, of which the Secretary of State says: I have that hope. Well, then at least we should get together here right now and see what we're gonna do if things really go wrong. This is not mathematics; this is an assessment. I'm very concerned about that. I really think it's a myth and we can really come home from a cold carnival. The Secretary of State thinks he's got good reasons for whatever that is to expect it to go well. Can we then agree here that, if things are really getting out of hand and we get those figures in the evaluation, we are also prepared to tap out of another vessel? Is that a directive that the Secretary of State wants to pass on to the evaluation that is to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u17	If you have a channelization that doesn't come off the ground and an addiction problem that explodes, you'll have to make revisions. The worse and less successful the situation is, the more fundamental these revisions must be. But precisely because many people who now take advantage of the illegal offer are not doing anything dark, I think we can convince them if they realize that there really is a choice. This is not linked to the duty of care that we consider important. I see that from the point of view of the player, who then has a choice between a provider from whom we as a government have seen that he is not playing a set-up and a provider from whom you have to see whether you get your money back and from whom you cannot even pay in a normal, relaxed way with your own bank account. That'll ring a bell. People will be thinking: I want an opportunity; I'm laying in to have a chance and not to let some vague figure on an island get rich, who doesn't even have to show me that he's giving me a fair chance. So I think there are a lot of good arguments to expect us to convince people that they should make use of the legal offer. So I certainly have good expectations of that. And as far as the fear of the negative effects of an online supply is concerned, there are even more possibilities: most people will use it in a healthy way, but I think the risks to those who are susceptible to addiction also arise if we do not regulate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u18	I should like to comment on the answers given yesterday. Most of it is clear and will perhaps also receive an answer in motions from our side. For me, and also for previous speakers, it is important that we learn from experience in the countries around us. In this respect, we have the advantage of the law of inhibiting lead. One of the things we can learn from the countries around us is that advertising and especially bonus games pose the greatest danger, especially as regards the concerns of Mr Segers and Mrs Van Toorenburg. From the answers to bonuses given by the Secretary of State, I do not know exactly what he is going to do. He says: those bonuses must, because all the countries around us do so. But if we have a tight, self-regulated framework in which there is a channeled offer, like the Secretary of State and I hope, could we not get rid of these bonuses? Because those are addictive things. I have a second small question, also in connection with the previous speakers. I may not have read it correctly, but is it true that all player data and game patterns are made available anonymised to zero measurement and evaluation researchers, so that we can get a clear view of the development of addiction, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u19	That was a very long interruption, Mrs. Mei Li Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u20	The answer to the latter is yes. That's what we need to get good insight. As far as the bonuses are concerned, I will make a different assessment. Of course, we also need to look at what is happening in other countries. Mrs Vos calls it "inhibiting head start," but I really think this is lagging behind. If we had opened up the market ten years ago, when hardly anyone was playing gambling online, the natural, logical tendency would have been to go to a legal provider. Now we have to "move" hundreds of thousands of people. And those illegal providers, no matter how we fight them, will continue to offer bonuses. Then I find it in the battle to be done by the legal providers, with all the restrictions they are rightly imposed, to get those customers to move and persuade them to continue their game with a legal provider, a means whose disadvantages do not outweigh the disadvantages of channeling if you delete it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u21	I do not entirely agree with the Secretary of State's reasoning on a restraining head start. I think that we can learn a great deal from the countries to us once, especially from Denmark, because it is getting out of hand there. So I do share those concerns. The bonuses will be dealt with in a lower regulation, but I want to be sure that we can still change it if it does not work. We will probably be discussing all kinds of other restrictions on advertising in the course of this debate. I think we can do better in the Netherlands than the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u22	I would like to come back to enforcement. This has already been mentioned in the documents, but I am pleased to hear from the Secretary of State himself whether he recognizes the need for an enormous effort to tackle the illegal offer and whether he expects it to be carried out in the same period after the law has entered into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u23	With realism. The law gives the Gaming Authority new powers to better enforce, but I do not think that this market is much different. Other developments also show that the online market is more difficult to seize than the offline market, for example in cases such as piracy. My impression of the industry is that it will be bad if we only gamble on enforcement. It is better to combine this with a legal alternative that is attractive enough for people to choose freely. The remaining category can then be made as difficult as possible with enforcement instruments. However, there are no simple enforcement tools to ensure that a particular company disappears and can no longer make its offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u24	Experience in other areas, such as prostitution, does not show that regulation alone does not eliminate illegality? In addition to regulation, a huge enforcement effort is needed to ensure that it actually makes progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u25	It doesn't happen on its own. Mr Van der Staaij pointed out in his example that there is a limit to success. You cannot guarantee 100% enforcement in advance, despite all the resources you have for that. It's hard to make a realistic assessment. You'll have to work very hard, and that's why the Ksa will have more space, powers and people to make life miserable for those providers. Above all, I expect much of the method that should make it easier for Dutch people to understand when they are dealing with legal or illegal providers. By means of payments, you can remove most people from illegal providers. That offer may still be there, but you can try to maintain it. However, that too is a difficult element, because there will also be suppliers who do not have a licence in the Netherlands, but from whom you cannot find that their entire business is not allowed, because they do have a licence in another country, for example. I think that we should above all ensure that we cut the link between the illegal providers and the Dutch players.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u26	There are major financial interests involved with the illegal providers, so they will not just let themselves be chased away. What gives the Secretary of State the confidence that we will be able, on balance, to substantially reduce that illegal offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u27	This confidence lies first and foremost with the player, who will soon be able to make a choice for a provider of whom he knows to be a good player. The duty of care is probably more important to us than to the player who thinks he will not get involved with these kinds of problems. In lotteries, for example, we also see that people from certain parties know that the odds correspond to what is predicted and indicated, even though the chances of winning remain low. The conditions will be checked. There are also all kinds of obscure attempts that people don't start because they think they won't win anyway. This is an effect that can easily convince players that they should be with legal providers. There is also the payment instrument. If you notice that on certain sites you can easily go through your bank account or credit card, while on other sites you are asked something that you don't have, which means you have to make up 300 detours to play there, it does raise thresholds for people. In addition, we have the Ksa's enforcement. It will have more tools in its hands and will be able to enforce enforcement with more people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u28	The Secretary of State has the illusion that he protects players by regulating through this law. But the WODC and the ggz both say that the number of addicts will increase. In Denmark, a country to which the Netherlands is taking an example, the number of addicts has increased tenfold since 2016. I wonder where the Secretary of State gets the illusion that he's using this law to protect players. I think he's only creating more addicts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u29	Because there is no causality between law and addiction. If you don't accept the law, you'll see the effects. In Denmark, I think they got there in time. That market started to rise and they immediately regulated it. Then you will see that there are many more people playing, so there are also more problems. In the Netherlands, we haven't regulated it, but you see the same thing. A lot more people play and have problems with that too. Maybe they're a little harder to register because we didn't regulate it and we don't see it, but I don't think it's because of this law. This law is trying to reverse the development, which I also see and fear, and to put a stop to. We're trying to get people who get addicted in the best possible way and help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u30	The autonomous growth in the number of addicts in the Netherlands is not as high as in Denmark. We discussed this extensively in the written procedure. So that's really a non-argument. I still don't understand why the Secretary of State doesn't choose better enforcement. The Secretary of State is now acting as if you can't pay with iDEAL, but you can also pay with iDEAL via your own bank, even though we wanted to avoid all of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u31	And that's what I need that law for. Of course you can say that it is not regulated and that you can now go to illegal providers. That is why there is a legislative proposal for this, because we want to make sure that we are better able to put the illegal providers at risk. We want to be able to force what Mrs Kooiman calls not to happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u32	This was said ten years ago in an adopted motion by Jan de Wit. We have already asked the banks not to cooperate with illegal providers. We could have regulated the use of iDEAL a long time ago. If the Secretary of State had wanted, we'd be dealing with a law today that we'd be tackling illegal providers instead of just making it easier for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u33	A motion that does not deliver enforceable instruments outside this political sphere is not enough to achieve it in practice. You need measures and powers for this, as this law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u34	The Secretary of State has chosen a very efficient way to answer the questions. I thank him for that. However, I still have a question about compulsory payments. The Secretary of State says he's gonna look into that in three years' time when the law is reviewed. That leaves the question open to me when this compulsory payment for these online gaming providers comes into view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u35	In three years. I think that you should then make the political assessment with a view to channeling and the effects that a payment has on it. Then we need to see if we think the time is right. I think that is above all the weighting you need to oppose this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u36	Let me put my question a little more concretely. How much money should charity or sport miss out, for example, if a compulsory payment is to be seen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u37	The assumption is therefore that this law reduces the number of games of chance, which reduces the payments to those goals. I can't put a number on that. Honestly, I don't know if that's gonna happen. Nor do I rule out the fact that there is no significant adverse effect. You should also look at how legal providers in the sector for which we are now dealing with the law have in any case linked themselves to sport or charities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u38	I understand from this reply from the Secretary of State that it will certainly be an important parameter through which the evaluation will take place and that this will also be involved in the question of whether there will be such a rate of payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u39	Because the payments are of course meant to maintain the link between gaming and charities, this is indeed a factor that weighs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u40	I suggest you move on. I can't wait to see how you built up your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u41	I will reply in the order of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u42	In the end, 21 amendments have been passed, if that is all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u43	Yeah, I think so. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 10 on banning high-risk bets. Of course, that's also about match fixing. That is a pernicious thing that affects the core value of sport. We have considered the risks of match fixing in this legislative proposal. This amendment strengthens that by excluding certain bets, such as bets on amateur competitions and other events that are easy to manipulate. I agree with the authors that there is also a greater risk of athletes being vulnerable, i.e. vulnerable to bribery or other means of printing. I can imagine that these tightenings in the new system will at least reduce the risk of match fixing. That is why I would like to leave the amendment to the House's judgement. The amendment in part No. 11 is about the reporting obligation for suspicious gambling patterns and the furnishing of a Sports Betting Intelligence Unit at the Ksa. This is in line with the previous amendment, because this amendment also has to do with match fixing. In the fight against match fixing, we established a National platform match fixing in 2014 with the sports federations, the Public Prosecutor, the Gaming Authority (Ksa) and the gaming providers. They are in there and are already obliged to monitor, register and report suspicious gambling patterns. This is then discussed by the Ksa and the National platform match fixing. The Authority shall have administrative powers in that regard. I think you can also act adequately if you don't have a Sports Betting Intelligence Unit, but if you do have such a unit, you can of course open a specific window with which you pay specific attention to this phenomenon in the imagery. That is why I leave this amendment to the discretion of the Chamber. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 14, which concerns the fixing of the uniform rate of taxation at 29%. I find that difficult. I understand the background, because I have that dilemma myself. On the one hand, you wonder why, because enforcement in a particular sector is more difficult, we should opt for a lower rate which will improve the channelization on those grounds. That feels a little weird. It feels like unfair treatment and favour for a sector that operates in a more difficult environment. On the other hand, I fear that it may have adverse effects on the channelization. So I get the basic choice. But since I had already considered this and made a different choice for channeling, I think it is consistent to discourage this amendment. The law will not go down if this amendment is adopted, but I would make a different assessment myself. If the amendment is adopted and the channelisation is somewhat disappointing, I would like to give this factor to the Chamber when I address my successor to the channelisation that might be left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u44	This law certainly does not go down if the amendment is adopted, because 29% is simply in the coalition agreement. Is the Secretary of State aware that it is said abroad, and certainly in France, that it is very good that you have raised the tax rate, because any provider who wants to pay it is a good one and the providers who do not want to do so or have made threats, as happened in December, you should not want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u45	This also applies to the 20% threshold and the other thresholds that we introduce into the system. Once the channelization runs, the mirrored scenario, it may be said that this advantage is improper. It's my estimate that it helps to get the channeling going. However, I can understand the principle that it is wrong to treat them differently in the basic rate of taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u46	Then we agree that we need to keep a close eye on channeling. That's why zero measurement is so important. However, I feel very strongly in sticking to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u47	I believe that there has been enough discussion of the principle versus the pragmatic lines, even in the run-up to this. I was excited by the Secretary of State's remark that his successor should keep an eye on this. Can we not agree that we are keeping a close eye on how this rate works out for channeling and that, if necessary, the cabinet will reconsider the rate in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u48	I assume that this will be a factor in the discussion if the channelisation is left behind, perhaps across the whole range, but I cannot see that now. You're gonna have to consider this. It's getting complicated anyway. We will soon have a channeling and all kinds of measures that will work in a positive or negative way. I think you should include this in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u49	It is good that this has now been established and that this is explicitly taken into account in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u50	I shall continue with the amendment on item No. 17 by Mr Segers of the Christian Union on the prohibition of gambling programmes on the open television network. I reject the amendment in this form for a technical reason. I agree with the background to the amendment, but it regulates this in the Media Act. I would find it more purer in the context of this law if this were regulated in the Gambling Act, because then the Gaming Authority can act. In that case, I shall leave the amendment to the Court's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u51	I believe that it can and may need to be dealt with in the Media Act. A new amendment is now being drafted in which the Gaming Authority is placed as a supervisor instead of the Media Commissioner. This therefore responds to the State Secretary's objection. The Gaming Authority controls and we want to achieve the same material.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u52	If it's settled in the Gambling Law, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. It would be undesirable for a new channel to be created that we do not really want to regulate or open up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u53	Broadcasting companies that break the law must, of course, also be dealt with. In my opinion, the Gambling Authority is then the appropriate authority, but it should be designed more broadly than just through the gambling providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u54	I'm not an expert on the Media Act. I do not know whether there are general provisions that see on the broadcasting of activities that are otherwise prohibited by law. I do not know if there is a general clause to address those responsible. We are now regulating distance gambling and the rules for providers. It is right that the Gambling Act addresses the position of the providers. Of course, broadcasting can also be involved in the exact structure of the company behind it; they can be addressed by this means under the Gambling Act. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 20, on the financing of a nationwide window of gambling from the addiction fund. The bill imposes a duty of care on providers, as well as a duty to provide information, intervene and pass on to addiction care. This point of contact can help providers to fulfil their duty of care. Under the current law, they can develop this themselves, but this amendment chooses not to wait but to set up one party. I leave the amendment to the discretion of the Chamber, because this is another way of fulfilling our policy objectives. It is up to the Chamber to record this in this way or to arrange it in a different way, as it says in the law. I shall now turn to the Van Toorenburg amendment to item No. 22, on the ban on gokaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u55	I would like to return to the amendment to item No. 20: What is your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u56	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u57	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u58	What is the amendment in part No. 22 concerns: I agree that we must combat the illegal offer. The marketing of apps and other software must be kept technology-neutral. We shouldn't just fight one form of appearance. This amendment clarifies what is now in the law. This clarifies the law. That is why I shall leave the amendment to the discretion of the Chamber. In substance, it fits our objectives. The vote will take place at the next voting time. 23 is about a warning text when offering games of chance. Authorisation holders have a legal obligation to include a slogan in which the consumer is informed of the risk of unlawful participation. There are many initiatives, and I wouldn't want to destroy them. I understand the amendment in such a way that you have to involve people who know it in the effect of the slogan. The point is that people don't come up with something that might be the middle between recruitment and deterrent. I understand that Mrs. Vos wants to put that pressure on it. My suggestion is that all relevant parties should be involved. Then I shall leave the amendment to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr Van Weyenberg wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u60	Van Wijngaarden, but it doesn't matter. I think this is a fundamental point, because it affects companies. It is not entirely excluded that companies themselves have a sensible idea about this. They can just think about it. That's what they're doing now. There are differences of opinion on the outcome. How exactly should I interpret the Secretary of State's pre-advisation? He also says that he thinks it is important for the companies to be involved. Is he saying that the judgment is Chamber if that is the case, but that, if the Chamber excludes it, he has more difficulty with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u61	The latter is the case. Maybe I've drawn a slightly too cheerful conclusion from the first term. I thought that this had already been promised in the spirit of this amendment and that this was widely shared. However, there is no harm in making that clear. At some point, the parties are not meant to receive a note with the message: go use this slogan. The other way around, too. It is not the intention that a lot of experts should look into it, but that the parties say that they have already come up with something else and that they are going to do it nicely. In that sense, I understand that the amendment is intended to strengthen that position. I think it's nice when there's a conversation in it. That's the Dutch tradition. The main thing is that it's a good slogan. Whoever originally came up with him, I find less relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u62	It is also just a question of hearing again and again and the last word is for the experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u63	For the Acts: I mean by the amendment that the people with the knowledge of addiction who have no financial interest in the gambling industry have the last word. Of course the gambling industry can make a suggestion and like to do better than "18-plus play consciously," which indeed keeps the middle between an incentive and a warning. Let me make it really clear to the Acts that there is no discussion that the last word here is spoken by those who have no financial links with the gambling industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u64	Then you have made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u65	Yes, and as far as the financial bond is concerned, part of the funding comes from the contributions of the companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u66	Not directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u67	I understand that, but before the Acts are ever taken advantage of to put addiction care out of play...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u68	I commend the Secretary of State's experience and his knowledge of the law, but indeed: no direct link with the gambling industry. So if it goes through taxes and we like left-wing people from taxes, then that independence is reasonably guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u69	This is also in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u70	The amendment in part No. 26 by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Vos, on matters to be included in the evaluation. In any case, they do not take away the things that I personally consider important to take into account in the evaluation. These are clear wishes, which have been heard in the debate and are also logical to take with them. So I'll leave the amendment to judge Chamber. Mr Van Wijngaarden's amendment to item No. 27 aims to proceed to involuntary exclusion only in the event of extreme necessity and according to Ksa's policy rules. I agree with the petitioner that you should be careful about involuntary registration in the CRUKS, that voluntary exclusion is much more efficient and that this reduces the chances of someone avoiding it and disappearing into the illegal circuit. However, I believe that voluntary exclusion as an ultimatum remedium is an important means of protecting the problem players and their environment. The amendment is in line with that. It does leave open the possibility to do it as an ultimum remedium where appropriate. That is why I leave it to the Court to decide. I come now to Mr Van Wijngaarden's amendment to item No. 28 on adapting the concept of "sports contests" in sports betting. That seems to me to be a rather modern one... I must honestly say that I had to explain at the time of assessment that there was indeed no difference. I also thought it was a confusing archaic term. I'll leave it to the Court to decide. The amendment tabled by Mrs Swinkels and Mr Verhoeven to item No. 29 about the isp-blockade is about making illegal gambling sites inaccessible. That's not very light-footed in the law. I'm not someone who thinks in an online activity: throw in a power to shut down the site and that's problem-free. I think this is something you should save for truly exceptional cases, where I have just crossed the threshold of the proposal we have now traditionally found, as an extreme means for the Ksa in the toolbox. In any case, I agree that it is not an idea of me and the cabinet that we are doing it here and that in many areas with such a blockade it can be determined that things can no longer be seen on the Internet. I have always thought that it should be an additional measure. It's not the tool in the coffin that I expect most. Let me be honest with you about that. I also think that we now have more effective means of blocking payments. If you think it will not be used more often by the Ksa and there are more effective and proportionate means to use it and if it is already an instrument on which you can have a fundamental discussion whether it is desirable or desirable, which is undesirable, that you actually think that the government can also set up such blockades in other areas, then I do sympathise with this amendment and I would like to leave it up to the Chamber to make that choice. In fact, I do not think that this is going to make the enforcement of the law lame. I don't think this is the most effective thing either. I think it can pass the test of justification for what we wanted to use it for. However, in the whole mix I can also imagine, for a moment I'm thinking that you want to delete it, given the unintended side effects. If the House wishes to adopt the amendment, I would suggest that the judge-supervisor should also be removed from Article 34 and from paragraph 6 and paragraph 7. Otherwise, there's a judge commissioner in the law, while the reason he's in there is taken out. So this is more of a technical remark. The Commissioner should then monitor the application of a power that is no longer within it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u71	A little further on this technique: does the Secretary of State realize the following? If you were to allow blockades, as the bill says, that would actually go far beyond what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u72	That's the dilemma I was just trying to sketch. Mrs. Swinkels says, "More than necessary." It's an effective way at the time. Very soon there will be another detour to have access to that market from the Netherlands, so that makes the effectiveness relative. I think there are less heavy resources that can be at least as effective. That is why I think it was a major threat. I also understand that there is an appeal from the incorporation of such an ultimum remedium into the law at all that may be undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u73	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that taking out a website by the hoster is such a less far-reaching means that can also be effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u74	Yeah, we could do that on the criminal route. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. Mrs Kooiman's 30 concerns a ban on the use of a land-based client base for recruitment and advertising. When I read the explanatory statement, I think that the main purpose of the petitioner is to prevent lotteries from suddenly using the so-called long-odds-opportunities games to sell a completely different type of game of chance. These short-odds games bring with them a different risk of addiction. I have sympathy for that. However, the way in which the amendment has been technically drafted extends far beyond the lotteries alone. If you do so, any provider is forbidden to use the database, regardless of the addiction risks of the different games. I am referring here to the people who play a game offline in a casino that is also offered online. It is more likely that these people want to take advantage of online gambling, because it is the same game but in a different way. You'll miss the chance to lead them to the legal online alternative. Because of this far-reachingness of the consequences, I would advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u75	I'm just thinking: Gee, what a nice amendment I've made!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u76	There's a difference of opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u77	We are in the process of adjusting the amendment. The lotteries rightly said that it is actually only one-way traffic. So we want it to work the other way around. I'm trying to make a technical adjustment towards the Secretary of State. I do think it is important that a database should not be used for any game. So that's what I'm keeping in mind. I would have liked to have said that I would like to amend the amendment slightly. What applies to lotteries must of course also apply to online gambling providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u78	I'm in the same position when it comes to that reasoning. Whether the government's opinion on the amendment changes depends on the precise changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u79	This may be a more procedural question, Mr President, but there are still some proposals for amendments before the Bureau of Legislation, because this is indeed a comprehensive law. It is perhaps appropriate to ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to give an opinion on the amendments which will then be tabled before the vote. I don't think we're gonna make it through this legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u80	No, I didn't. Apparently, there are other amendments coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u81	Sure. Even if amendments that I have dealt with have been modified so that I would like to say something about them, I will inform them in writing before the votes. With the amendment in part No. The aim of Mr Segers' 31 is to increase the age of playing from 18 to 21. I reject this amendment because I have a different view of how you involve that vulnerable group. We have a regime with extra protection for young adults between 18 and 24. If people want to play games like this between 18 and 21, they may be gaming, but in their view they may be playing games, then I think it is particularly important that they can already be informed of the risks and concerns with a legal provider at that age. I think that's better than keeping them waiting for three years, thinking they're probably not going to an illegal provider in the meantime. The amendment in part No. Mrs Kooiman's 32 is about aligning the advertising regime for online gambling with the advertising regime for alcohol. I am not in favour of that. The current laws and regulations already impose strict requirements on advertising activities for gambling. Sometimes they go beyond alcohol advertising rules on parts. We need the advertising of legal providers to lead people to the legal and reliable offer. The design of the amendment is also difficult, because in addition to the Wok, the Media Act is being amended. Then we get two more supervisors in the same field and the Media Commissioner goes first. This does not seem to me to be in the interest of effective legislation. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. The amendment in part No. 33 by Mrs Kooiman concerns an increase in the contribution rate for the addiction fund to 1%. I understand the concerns about the budget, because it is not known how the number of risk and problem players develops. I find it difficult, because most of the costs of addiction care are already covered by other means and the fund is complementary to them. So it's not the only source. For example, 2 million goes to the health insurance fund for all eHealth. This includes eHealth, for example, targeting gambling addicts. That is why the VWS Minister and I believe that 0.5% is sufficient for the purposes now enshrined in the law. This is not an additional 9%, so the impact of this amendment on the channelisation is, of course, somewhat smaller than with other amendments. It is possible that the evaluation would show something and that you would increase the payment. I think there is an amendment which does the same in another way. I don't know if that's gonna happen, but I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u82	It's a little glass bulb from this Secretary of State. He admits that himself: we don't know what's needed yet, so we're adjusting it very low. I think the other way around: gaming providers have millions left to bring in a lot of people and thus increase gambling addiction. I say let's not take that gamble and raise the payoff. I can respond to the Secretary of State by including an evaluation clause so that the payment can be reduced later. At least let's not take the chance that we're running out of money for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u83	I keep thinking the other way around. I'm assuming, with everything we know, that this is enough. If you want more money for addiction care, you might want to look more broadly than just this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u84	I am very curious about these other possibilities, because then we can also think about them. My experience with this cabinet is that sometimes it doesn't have enough money. I thought I'd help the Secretary of State and the Cabinet. In any case, let us make a full commitment; you can always see if there is a need for less budget. At least I want the fund to be well-stocked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u85	We share that, but first of all we disagree on whether the fund will be well-stocked. Secondly, if you think it should be fuller, there may be other ways of achieving this, but that is always the hard part of amendments that have been checked but not tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u87	That is a broadening of the basis, but perhaps I can do that somewhere between the first and second term. The Bishop/Van der Staaij amendment to item No. 34 is about raising the threshold to unsubscribe from the CRUKS (Central Register Exclusion Games). The CRUKS is an important element of the legislative proposal. We aim at the possibility that you distance yourself from risky games of chance and have time to seek help in addiction care. This is most effective if registration is voluntary. So do the proposers. That is why I want to keep the registration low-threshold and easy. It lasts six months or more and then it expires. That depends on your registration. I'm afraid you'll make volunteering more difficult if you make it harder to unsubscribe. This creates a threshold, which not only makes the administrative process more difficult, but also reduces the number of people in the register and gives them access to care. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u88	I understand the Secretary of State's reasoning. However, I wonder whether it is not possible for people to opt for voluntary registration and to realise that they are protected from themselves. They want self-protection. Wouldn't that self-protection be best served if you couldn't make it back into a gambler's impulse and then gamble again? Don't you think it'd be better if you volunteered for a small period of reflection? Doesn't what the government means come to its senses?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u89	Perhaps that is true for the group that is already in the register, but my fear is that the group that will then be in the register will be smaller. Now you know when you sign up that the threshold is very low. It expires after that. Of course, you can continue to call for help in other ways. I'm afraid people are thinking, once I sign up, I can't get rid of it. You already have to cross a threshold to acknowledge that you have a problem. That's often the biggest threshold. I want to keep it as low as possible. At the moment when someone is in doubt and wondering whether he should seek help, there must be as few arguments as possible for that person in the sense of: if I am seeking help, then I will soon experience the disadvantages of that. Therefore, my choice would be to make the entrance very accessible and, once someone is in care, to have the care and guidance look at what is the best way to ensure that a person does not fall back or gets into trouble further or further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u90	I understand the reasoning, but why does the Secretary of State think it has so much effect if someone voluntarily chooses self-protection? If it's said that you can get rid of it, but it takes a while before you get to gamble again, then it doesn't make any sense to say: then I won't? I can imagine that the length of that period will affect that, but could it not be a good addition that a little time will pass before the removal becomes effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u91	This is difficult, because I can only move in a limited way in the situation. It seems to me to be a very undesirable situation. It's not just my personal assessment, it's the idea that it takes six months for you to register to work. Once a person is in there and continues to acknowledge that he has a problem, he is not tempted again by the fact that he is unsubscribed from the register at once. Such a person is aware of his problem and can then continue to be helped. The amendment in part No. Mr Segers, Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Van Toorenburg proposed that the fight against illegal gambling should be added to the legal remit of the Ksa. It's not like you can't do that right now; that's one of the reasons the Ksa's here. This amendment specifically lays down this in the law, which already covers other tasks. That is a high-level clarification, which is appropriate when you look at what the Ksa will have to do when this law comes through. I shall therefore leave this amendment to the House's discretion. In the amendment to item No. 36 of Mr Segers and Mr Bishop proposed a difficult procedure. I am against this, because I believe that this will lead to even greater delays. In the written reply, however, I promised that I would make elements of lower regulation known to the Chamber. We can always discuss this in a general discussion and we can table motions on it. The cabinet is not inclined not to listen to that. There are also elements of lower regulation that are already subject to a slight pending procedure. I would like to do so and not with such a very heavy front, with all kinds of procedural problems, which takes matters longer, including leading to a legal offer. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The further amended amendment to Part No. 38 of Van Toorenburg's member is concerned with a ban on offering games of chance to sportsmen, teams or associations sponsoring the licence holder. I do agree with the applicant that everyone should be able to count on the competition to be fair, so that we do not look at a charade in which someone else has already determined the result. Influence of a sponsor on the course of a competition is therefore undesirable anyway. I do not think that sponsorship automatically leads to match fixing or other excesses. The safeguards we have against match fixing are sufficient to at least state that the proposed does not necessarily have added value, albeit it does raise a threshold. The sports sector itself has already taken the necessary initiatives. I do not recommend this amendment, because I think there are many disadvantages to it, which do not outweigh its limited added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u92	Maybe we'll never agree on that. We believe that you should never have an interest in the outcome. The agreed code is indeed a good initiative, but no conditions are attached to it. The Secretary of State keeps saying that we need to regulate those few protection factors that we propose so that the Ksa can maintain on them. Then how do we do it with that code?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u93	The code is a complement to the things we've already legally regulated. I am not saying that the code is the only way forward; without that code, we also have a lot of tools to act against match fixing. The code is a healthy addition to that, which the sector itself tries to avoid, as a government, using our powers. Not every code agreed by civil society needs to be adopted immediately by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u94	But there is consensus that you should not have an interest in the outcome of a game you offer. When you are the main sponsor of an individual player and you then offer a game of chance on the game in which that player comes out, you are looking for your own win or loss. Why can the Secretary of State not agree with the Chamber and with the unions that this should be done by means of a code or by means of this amendment? Then where's the bail?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u95	There's already the necessary bail in the law. I have already dealt with an amendment in which certain bets are even completely excluded, thereby covering certain risks. Furthermore, there is already an obligation for the provider of a gambling game to demonstrate that there is no conflict of interest. So if something came out of the code that wasn't in the hook, then you could use that general reasoning to appeal to someone. The Van Wijngaarden/Mei Li Vos amendment to part No. 40 gives more enforcement tools to the Gaming Authority. In my opinion, these instruments are not necessarily needed, but they can have added value to the whole toolbox for the additional protection of consumers. It also fits in with the policy objectives. I therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. The Van Wijngaarden amendment to item No. 41 is about how you control in arcades using CRUKS. Should this happen when you enter or when you play? The latter is the thrust of the amendment. I believe that the two arguments put forward by Mr Van Wijngaarden are correct. The implementation costs of entry control, as stated in the current bill, are considerable. We are indeed setting up many thresholds, including financial ones, before you can offer them and therefore profit from them. I therefore do not find this argument convincing. I am more sympathetic to the second argument, namely that the sector itself is firmly engaged in an alternative to bringing care obligations to a higher level, with tools linked to the slot machine itself. It is also difficult, of course, that, even without this amendment, certain catering establishments will remain where one can play a vending machine, without access control. If you want to pull it together, it is ultimately more effective if you control the vending machine yourself, than if you only check at the entrance and it doesn't happen in certain places. So I understand that, but I do think it should lead to genuinely visible improvements. I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber, but if you do this, the sector has to show that it is serious with that control at the slot machine, because otherwise it will come back soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u96	If I listen carefully to the Secretary of State, he will also see that with this amendment, the prevention policy for the cafés that have a slot machine is becoming more accessible two thirds of all slot machines in cafés. At a café, access control at the door is much more difficult. This amendment says: do a visual check. Does anyone look like a problem player to you? There are 50 risk indicators for this. Does anyone look like they're not 18-plus? You can see that, too. If that's the case, you'll contact someone. That is actually the thrust of this amendment. That's what the arcades are doing now. The obligation to consult CRUKS does not have to be standard at the door, but can also happen if there are real risk indicators. I remember when I was a kid when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a kid... when I was a That's an indicator for a problem player. This amendment actually makes the system more open, so that, in future too, after the evaluation, for example, we can keep two thirds of all slot machine providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u97	If it is successful. The bill now provides for an access check, but not at all locations. Then you do indeed have a situation that does not apply to a substantial part of the offer. If you arrange for the automatic control to take place, then the other locations, as Mr Van Wijngaarden also calls them, must also be included. Then the net must be thrown out wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u98	I note that the Secretary of State confirms that without this amendment the law makes it much more difficult to include pubs in the duty of care. With this amendment you can connect the catering industry with that. However, I also hear the Secretary of State say very clearly that this should not be non-binding. So that means: lick piece and, if necessary, withdraw the licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u99	That seems to me to fit in with the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u100	As I said in the first term: the SP Group is struggling with this amendment. That's especially because you're missing the identification. I would like the Secretary of State to go into this in more detail. To what extent can games halls identify all players? After all, you also want to combat crime in the form of money laundering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u101	For this, you also have to look at the context in which this takes place. These are games with quite limited inlay possibilities. The hourly wage you earn with money laundering in this game is pretty low. It's gonna be a long money-laundering operation. It is therefore important to see what type of game is offered and what is appropriate. On the contrary, I want to include not only the vending-machine halls but also the catering facilities with much less vending-machines, which are normally less visible. Otherwise you will create a very firm approach for some of the vending machines and a gap with the rest. Until recently, there was no other way, but now there are opportunities to do so more specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u102	It was a great wish of the SP to also look closely at slot machines in catering establishments. I therefore welcome the fact that the amendment makes provision for this. Just, I'm still worried about not checking all the visitors with that. Can the Secretary of State go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u103	You do it on the basis of risk factors. Of course, they are not only linked to problematic game behaviour; you can also take into account the factors mentioned by Mrs Kooiman. You do it when there's such a risk factor. That does not have to be only when there is "hit on the closet," as Mr Van Wijngaarden described it. So you can also incorporate these other elements into the risk factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u104	Then you come to the last amendment, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u105	The amendment in part No. 42 by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Kooiman arrange that advertising is only allowed after 21.00 hours, both for online and land based games of chance. I would advise against this amendment. It is now 7 p.m., so it is stretched by two hours. We have not insignificant sports programmes embedded in Dutch culture, which can be seen around 7 p.m., and which can now also be advertised. This often involves partnerships with sports clubs and charities. However, only one provider per advertising block is allowed; that is the so-called block exclusiveness. I think you should offer that space, in a controlled manner, between 7:00 and 9:00. This helps channeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u106	What does the Secretary of State think of the argument that the 9 p.m. limit has been chosen for alcohol advertising? There is a clear parallel: you want to limit advertising because of the harmfulness and other disadvantages. Doesn't it make sense to pursue as much uniformity as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u107	Game advertising will soon have other obstacles that we do not know about the alcohol advertising. So we need to focus on what's important. In the case of alcohol, the factor channelisation is not taken into account. The government doesn't need to lead people to the legal offer. People will find that for themselves. So there are parallels between the activities and the products, but there are also differences which make me think that you should always look at what is the most desirable regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u108	One more time, because I still can't understand the argument. What major interests or values are at stake if you do not align that 9 p.m. limit, including for the games of chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u109	I would not like to mention immediately a core value of society which is then at stake. It's a practice now, of course. This amendment would also refer, for example, to the current advertising of lotteries, just before a sports programme. That is what is happening now, and we do not see a major problematic effect of it. So I do not see the need to make this impossible. It's more a matter of where you set the line and whether there are opportunities for canalisation, also given the cooperation you often see between games of chance, charities and sports activities. I believe that this does not add much to the negative aspects, but it does not affect the core value of society if this amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u110	The merchant is speaking here in particular. If a link is made with sports competitions, advertising and charities, it's really about money: we can just raise more money. We do think differently about this, but if this bill has been a genuine search for broadening the possibility and ensuring that addiction remains in control, is it logical to raise the threshold in the advertising regime a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u111	Of course, it is not the case that there is not already a strict advertising regime. Fortunately, we agree that the regime proposed by the cabinet already imposes many restrictions on advertising. Now we're talking about a two-hour difference. So let's not judge the whole search on that. It's a trade-off. Of course, the aim is to channel advertising. Then you should also consider whether there are any activities on certain occasions that you think should continue. They're already here at this time of day. The amendment also makes these activities impossible, and those are exactly the right moments to point out a legal offer through up to one provider per block. I believe that this opportunity can contribute to a channelization that I would like to preserve. It is not that everything stands or falls with that, but this is a difference of weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u112	This is kind of weird. The target group consists of those who now gamble illegally; you want to bring them to the legal circuit. And what are you doing? You're throwing out commercials about everything and everyone. If channelization is really the jumping point, you really need to focus on the very specific target group, namely people who are now gambling illegally. This is an encouragement to gamble for anyone who also watches between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., with all the risks of that. These risks have been recognised; this link is laid down in the legislative proposal. Well, then it wouldn't be too crazy to raise a threshold here, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u113	There are also a lot of thresholds. If you look from the ground at the height of the thresholds, you would hardly see the difference. It is right that we should discuss this, but let us also note that we all believe that there should be strong thresholds. We are not talking about a niche group that you can, so to speak, send a letter to point out the legal offer. The estimates of the number of Dutch participating in illegal gambling are up to 1 million. Then you're talking about a very broad target group, which you should also be able to reach. You need broad results for that, too. We now also have a lottery commercial right in front of a sports program and I have never had the idea that it was a very bad thing. That's why I like 9:00. Sorry, I think it's nice that it's allowed from 7:00 p.m.; 9:00 p.m. is also neat, but that's just another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u114	I actually agree with the Secretary of State's argument, especially because TV is very much of the last century. Most of the ads are online. I would like to draw attention to two issues, and I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Yesterday I got the message that in Belgium people are going crazy about all the advertisements about live betting on competitions, especially now with the European Championships. The Belgian Minister of Justice now wants to ban advertising for live betting. Does the Secretary of State see anything in that? The second point is that most advertising is online and that anyone who is interested in sports gets advertising for gambling online all the time. No distinction is made between minors. Now that the way to target target groups is so specific that even women who want to become pregnant can be offered advertising, it is not possible to ask gambling companies to advertise online...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u115	And that's when you play football!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u116	No, you're not interested in playing soccer. They also know exactly how to target you, Mr. Chairman. They know exactly your needs. You know that once you've looked for a dress, you get a hundred dress commercials. In this way, companies also target people who are interested in sports. No distinction is made according to age. Is it not much better, in the spirit of the amendment we are discussing, to impose restrictions on companies, especially online, in terms of target groups and methods of targeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mrs. Vos has some very creative suggestions. They deserve a better answer than something very general. I'd like to return to that in second term. The same applies to its feasibility. It is true that, if you are interested in sports, you sometimes come across something. I therefore recommend that everyone, as I myself do, inform the Ksa of this. Well, I think that's so appropriate. I would like to return to this more technical question in the second term. The same applies to the question of whether it is possible. I cannot deny, as I say on the basis of my campaign history, that it is not always unfocused.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u118	How much do you know about these little ads for dresses and stuff, Mrs. Fox?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u119	Well, as MPs, we know a thing or two about online campaigns and how that all works. But we also know a few things as ordinary consumers. I'd like to get back to you in second term. I have also prepared a number of motions on this subject. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u120	Was this the last amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u121	It was the last amendment I had.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u122	It is a question of the amendment to item No. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 32 replaces. I think you should make a judgment on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u123	Oh, yeah. Well, it's a replacement, but I'm not gonna let it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u124	Thank you. We came here at the end of the government's first term. I assume there's a need for a second term. There is also a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u125	Mr. Chairman. We have already got a long way together in this debate, but I would like to dwell on some individual points. We've had the illegal gambling sites and the way they're handled. We want those sites to be dealt with by the Gaming Authority, but we also realize that that is not hairminder oil. At the same time, we want to handle the liberal acquisition of a free internet with care. So I think D66 simply has a point with the amendment: you should not go beyond what is necessary. Experts have assured us that even after the adoption of the D66 amendment, it remains possible to cut off illegal gambling sites. And that's what we were talking about. So we support that. We have just discussed the CRUKS in a short inter-ruption debate. I would almost say, also as a result of the whole discussion, that under pressure everything becomes liquid. The amendment has become almost like wax in the hands of Mrs Kooiman, because of course she is a bit of the spiritual mother of the CRUKS. But the meeting's gonna go on for a while. The idea is that you should have adequate access control and that there should be adequate supervision in the arcade, and actually also preferably in a café. Let's face it, there are more than 20,000 slot machines in cafés. This concerns two thirds of all slots in the Netherlands. So I think you should look at how to set up the system so that the access control at the door is just visual, as I just described it, and risk-oriented. Does anyone look too young? Does anyone look like a problem player to you? There are therefore serious risk indicators for this. That must be closely monitored, as far as I am concerned, also through mysteryguest investigations by the Ksa. That's one. Then two is that when someone is inside, the playing behavior is monitored and the CRUKS is consulted where necessary. So I'm gonna change that amendment a little bit. I'm gonna come up with the warning on the gambling ad. I think it is important that such a warning is made after consultation with the gambling providers. Otherwise, I'd just find it weird. Suppose we as MPs have a small business together and another one is going to warn about our little business, without our little company being involved. I'm just getting to the point of sports. There is a case known to NOC*NSF from the United Kingdom in which gaming providers shared information directly with the sports organisation. The sports team is immediately informed and likely to prevent match fixing, so parties report. Can the Secretary of State at and after the implementation of this Act make every effort to ensure that suspicious gambling patterns reach the relevant sports clubs as soon as necessary and that unnecessary obstacles to this are removed in consultation with sport even after the adoption of this Act? I'm still thinking about the football pools and a game of poker with friends. In fact, consultation with the Ministry of Finance sheds new light on this issue. The media, including the website www.voetsrecht.nl, which can be found with a simple search via Google, and Parliamentary questions show that in non-fiscal lawyers, let's face it: that is the vast majority of us every time, especially around EK's and World Championships, when the Netherlands participates again, there is great uncertainty about the scope of the Gambling Tax Act. For example, a simple search on the internet teaches that a soccer pool that exceeds the threshold of €449 must be paid gambling tax. That is not the case, however, unless a third party that does not participate itself organises the football pool. Also around the 2012 European Championships, the tax liability for winners of football pools was unclear. The information available at the time by the Tax Administration on its site and the leaflet on gambling, which is still on the website of the Tax Administration, are heavy costs for non-tax lawyers. An improvement is therefore necessary. So the problem is information, not legislation. I therefore withdraw the amendment. However, I would like to table the next motion, which has been co-signed by Mrs Vos and Mrs Swinkels. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many people are not aware of the fact that they do not owe any gambling tax in participating in a football pool or playing, for example, a game of poker with friends as long as this is played among themselves and is not organised by a third party;]] [[Whereas the information on the Tax Administration website on when there is no gambling tax due can be greatly improved;]] [[noting that various factually incorrect messages about sporting events such as the European Championship or the Football World Cup have been published on the Internet;]] [[whereas the Dutch national team is expected to return to an European Championships or World Championships in the near future;]] [[calls on the Government to make the information on when no gambling tax is due in a simple language easy to find on at least the website of the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Wijngaarden, Mei Li Vos and Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u126	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u127	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u128	Finally, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive written reply. As far as I am concerned, the Dijkhoffian core phrase of the written answer was this: "The non-regulation of gambling does not mean that these are not offered and played." This debate was also a bit about the feasibility of society and the extent to which politics can and will put society into its hands with commandments and prohibitions. That is at the heart of this debate. My group understands and respects that this is a dilemma for some groups on the issue of gambling. But from the failure of the legal ban on online gambling that still applies, we can conclude that looking away from the hundreds of thousands of online gamblers makes no sense. They're here and they're our concern. The emergence of online gambling against the current in and against the will of the legislator shows that society's feasibility is limited and relative. Society is not made by us; society is made by itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u129	Thank you. CRUKS stands for Central Register Exclusion Gaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u130	Madam President. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. He is also now known as a practical driver. This is how he shows himself in other parts of his portfolio: things have to be arranged. At the same time, this is much more than just regulating things. The personal is also political. First of all, I am not thinking of those who are going to make money from this and have an interest in it, but first of all of those who could be the victims of it. I keep in mind that people can get into debt, which can put enormous pressure on families and relationships. That is also why I am looking at this bill with great concern. There aren't just a few things being arranged here, it's more than that. The Group of the European People's Party therefore remains deeply concerned. My colleague Schouten has passed a number of assumptions behind this bill in the first term: people like to gamble legally, the illegal offer will disappear, the gambling market will not grow extra and after regulation you will eventually have fewer addicts. The fear has been expressed that these assumptions might prove to be mythical. That is why I said during my interruption that we need to make a very serious assessment, because we are holding on to our hearts. The Council of State has also warned about enforcement concerns, as the 80% channeling rate could be wishful thinking. In any case, it is not sufficiently substantiated. I hope that several of our amendments, such as the amendment on item No. 47 on banning a gambling station, are adopted, because they will improve the bill. I want the Secretary of State to make it clear once again why it is so problematic to include it in the Media Act. I do not regard that as a problem, but as an additional guarantee and an additional guarantee. Because we're putting the Ksa in a position to supervise. I'd like the Secretary of State to answer that question. In the amendment to item No. 35 we ask for a tightening up of the Ksa's task. The opinion on this has been left to the Chamber, and I therefore assume that this will lead to an improvement. I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 36 deals with an important point, namely the pending procedure. It makes the choice to allow the quality of decision-making to prevail over speed. I'm asking the Secretary of State to look at that more generously. By means of the amendment to item No. 31 We want the age for gambling to be increased to 21 years, and that seems to me to be justified. However, we continue to have concerns, and I would like to put them to the vote by means of two motions for resolutions. We continue to worry about addiction. We find ourselves in a minefield in which different parties have financial interests, and these interests can be extended. It therefore seems advisable to me and Mr Vos to examine the option of an independent rapporteur. We also have them in a very different area of policy, human trafficking, which is extremely beneficial. Such a person constantly conducts research, looks critically and gives advice both requested and unsolicited. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to combat gambling addiction as far as possible and to provide independent and sound information on the nature, extent and development of gambling addictions;]] [[noting that other forms of addiction, such as alcohol addiction and drug addiction, also require independent reporting;]] [[Notes that it is desirable to appoint a rapporteur, in line with the model of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, who is competent to carry out and make recommendations on the nature, extent and problems of gambling addiction and other forms of addiction;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for the appointment of a National Rapporteur for Addiction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Mei Li Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u131	Finally, I want to talk about the position of the Ksa. It's crucial that the Ksa is in sufficient position to be a real watchdog. As we would like to take a critical look at this, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas combating illegal online gambling is one of the main objectives and the available capacity of the Gaming Authority determines this;]] [[points out that the Gaming Authority should have sufficient budget and formation to substantially reduce the illegal offer of games of chance;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate, one year after the entry into force of this law, whether the Ksa has sufficient capacity to combat and substantially reduce the illegal supply and, if necessary, to provide additional budget and formation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u132	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions. As I said in the first term, D66 is in favour of regulating remote gambling. We did have some questions, but about the implementation of this bill, the Secretary of State has removed some doubts about D66. I thank him, of course, for the predicate 'judge chamber' he gave to the amendment on the DNS and IP blockades of me and my colleague Verhoeven. I have two more points, first of all the social security number. In my first term, I have already asked about the use of the civil service number by the licence holder. The Secretary of State explained in his reply that the civil service number does indeed reach the holder of the licence, as this is necessary to identify the player. He also pointed out that licence holders should immediately destroy the civil service number again. Can the Secretary of State explain how that works? It is, of course, about the fact that the licence holders do not have the civil service number without reason, because that is a very sensitive personal statement. I continue to find it striking that this law actually establishes a new legal basis for providing access to the civil service number to bodies other than the government. Does this create a precedent? Are we gonna see this more often? Finally, I come to the contribution to sport. I've already asked the Secretary of State in an interruption about the payment. When will online gambling also receive such a payment? The Secretary of State has not yet been able to clearly indicate what that depends on, he does not have a guess on it either and whether there will be a certain lower limit for the income that sport now has. So that is still unclear at the moment. In that respect, it seems a bit like a game of chance. However, we also understand that these effects are difficult to predict. Therefore, D66 will involve this issue in a critical review of the law as soon as there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u133	Madam President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. We have discussed this bill in detail in the first period and have made it clear why we are critical of the enlargements contained in this bill. A lot of metaphors have been used that are often derived from water. Quite a lot of water language was used, such as channeling and containment. Channeling is the correcting of a meandering watercourse. You can see in practice that the necessary problems can arise downstream. If we continue to channel, we fear that the same is the case here, namely that this is not enough and that more containment is needed. That is basically the SGP's attitude to this bill. We continue to actively look for improvements, even though we do not share all the choices underlying this legislative proposal. I would therefore like to deal with two amendments, which we have also discussed during an interruption debate in the first period. First of all, that is the amendment to item No. 34 on the voluntary exclusion of participation in games of chance. With this amendment, we want to prevent the deletion of the register from taking place in a rush. The Secretary of State said that he is afraid that this is creating a threshold. Is it true that the bill already states that you can not unsubscribe until six months after registration, even in the case of voluntary registration? Did I get that correctly? Because then the six-month threshold will also apply. That's a hefty threshold. What we add is actually much more limited after such a long period. We say, "Watch out that you can't write yourself out in an impulse, give it some time to think about it." If the Secretary of State finds the period of a month too long, would it be a solution to choose a slightly shorter period? That's for me to discuss. I do not think that the legislative proposal offers enough guarantees against impulsive write-off. That is why we are maintaining this amendment. The same goes for the amendment on item No. 42. I would also like to maintain that, because I find the argument for protecting young people here, as with alcohol, appropriate. I do not think it is justified that we should distinguish between alcohol advertising and gambling advertising in time. Furthermore, I have signed Mrs Mei Li Vos' motion which makes the right point that it is not just about television, but also about what is happening in the online world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mr. Chairman. I think this has been a good debate, even though we are still disappointed at the end of this debate. We are disappointed because many handouts and suggestions from the CDA and other parties who have raised the level of protection have been thrown into the wind. In this cabinet, the degree of channelization is above protection. This means that this cabinet does not go as far as was originally agreed with the Chamber. Think of the free play goods, the number of providers, the physical establishment, the extension of the exclusion period and the enforcement by the Ksa. We have already discussed this in an interrupting debate: it is not that we are by definition against everything. We simply do not agree that a number of qualitative restrictions are being considered, as the Secretary of State calls them, because we believe that you should also look at quantitative restrictions. As far as we're concerned, it's not either-or just and-and. I regret that the Secretary of State is hiding behind European regulations. I think we should throw the helm in that direction for once. Europe sees the free market as a kind of ideal in many respects, and that is why it no longer gives countries the freedom to regulate their own protection in a number of respects. I have seen this as chairman of the parliamentary committee of inquiry at the ILT. In the end, we can't even look at our trains properly anymore, because apparently it's more important that we can go everywhere freely on the market. We see this here too, although it has been explicitly stated here that much more action can be taken if you put the protection on one side. I think we should make an agreement with each other that we should look at Europe in this way. That's important, now more than ever. I still have a few specific questions. The Secretary of State has said that he would like to refuse a licence to suppliers who have been fined administratively. However, he does not give a clear answer to our question as to whether the financial penalty before the licence will ultimately work in such a way that you can actually buy off what you have done before. What's the deal with this? I would like an answer from the Secretary of State. I understand that a gambling provider has been flagged; it is a sponsorship agreement with the KNWU. I'd like to get some more information on this. If the Secretary of State says transparency is important, this should also apply here. Perhaps we can learn something from that. The Secretary of State also announces that the Gaming Authority acts as one. nl extension is offered. It's still unclear when someone is directly linked to one. nl-site to one. eu-site. I'll table a motion on that. Mr Van der Staaij has already addressed the issue of the duration of exclusion. I would like to know more about the legal basis in order to be able to intervene in the end if there is no establishment in the Netherlands. There are mere declarations of intent, I understand. At the time, the Secretary of State wrote: "... especially with English parts." We're gonna get rid of that, but I want to know exactly what's going on here. Looks like this is still voluntary. I've prepared a number of motions. I'll start with a motion on the bypass trick. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent years it was not legally permitted to offer remote gambling in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas various providers have bypassed and still bypassed this by, for example, linking visitors to their website, which ends on a so-called (point).nl extension, directly to their website that ends on (point).eu;]] [[Whereas the Government has indicated that it is up to the Gaming Authority to assess whether a provider has illegally offered remote gambling and to refuse a licence;]] [[calls on the Government, as mentioned above, to draw the attention of providers to the Gaming Authority in order to refuse to grant a licence to providers persisting in the illegal offer of games of chance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Mei Li Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u135	My next motion concerns bonuses. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this legislative proposal leaves room for the provision of bonuses by gaming providers;]] [[Whereas the purpose of these bonuses is to tempt consumers to participate in gambling;]] [[Whereas this is likely to increase the number of recreational, problem and addicted players, and this is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to expressly prohibit the provision of bonuses by gaming providers in the Decision on recruitment, advertising and addiction prevention games of gambling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u136	I have co-signed other motions from several colleagues, including a motion which goes a step further than the amendment tabled on behalf of my group on the offer/sponsorship combination. Mrs Mei Li Vos will table a motion on this matter. There's something special going on. We are dealing with a rather complicated bill that has once been submitted to the Council of State and with which everything has happened in the Chamber. Many amendments have been tabled. I would like them to be reviewed by the Council of State. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several amendments have been tabled which could substantially change the legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for the Council of State to review these amendments on the basis of policy analytic, legal and legal soundness before voting on them;]] [[calls on the Government, the Council of State, to submit the amendments submitted for advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u137	If this motion does not reach a majority, I would like the final product that we will eventually achieve in this Chamber to be submitted to the Council of State. The next motion serves that purpose. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several amendments have been tabled which could substantially change the legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for the Council of State, after the votes, to review the final legislative proposal on policy analytic, legal and legal validity before it is sent to the First Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to send the proposal of law as amended after the votes to the Council of State for advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u138	Mr. Chairman. We have had a very long legal process, and not just in this Chamber. There is a very long history, also in writing. I see the Secretary of State nodding. He's had a lot of work to do. We didn't doubt it at the beginning, but we didn't doubt it at the end. Our point of view is clear: we see no good for people to be able to gamble online 24 hours a day, seven days a week in their pajamas, on the terrace or on the campsite. The WODC has researched it and says that the risk of addiction will increase. The ggz says this, too. In similar countries, such as Denmark, we also see an increasing addiction. We don't want that. We'd rather we'd have been on firm enforcement first. Only then can you see if you can regulate. I do not think that enforcement has been achieved. Mr Segers has already tabled a very nice motion on this point, in which he says that the Ksa should make good use of enforcement. Mrs Van Toorenburg's words about the EU's suffocating rules have been taken from my heart. I'd like to go along with that. I also have a number of motions. I think they're clear enough, so I'm just gonna read them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that payments to malicious and illegal gambling websites should not be made in any way;]] [[Considering that a motion was adopted in 2011 requesting the government to ensure that banks do not engage in business with parties offering illegal gambling on the Internet, and that it is still possible to pay with iDEAL from illegal providers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that it is also not possible to make payments via iDEAL to illegal gambling providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Segers and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u139	Then I have a very important motion on the islands. I'm just gonna read it to you, because she's clear enough. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a large part of the illegal online gambling offer in Curaçao and Saint Martin is based and has an undermining effect on public order there and throughout the Kingdom;]] [[Considering the importance of tackling illegal providers in order to ensure the successful legalisation of online gambling;]] [[Whereas the Gaming Authority is the main body in the Kingdom of the Netherlands which has the expertise to combat the current illegal offer, and will soon monitor and monitor the legal offer;]] [[noting that a motion has already been adopted calling on the government to pay particular attention to the influence and action of the (illegal) gambling industry in investigations into the (illegal) money flows between the underworld and the upper world in Curaçao and Saint Martin, between these countries and with countries outside the Kingdom;]] [[calls on the Government, with the help of the Gaming Authority, to actively combat the illegal gambling industry using all available means;]] [[calls on the Government, with the help of the Gaming Authority, to monitor and monitor the legal gambling industry in Curaçao and Saint Martin with particular attention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman and Mr Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u140	That was a very long motion. Finally, I would like to comment on my amendment to item No. 33. This provides for the compulsory payment to be doubled from 0.5% to 1%. There was a whole discussion with the Secretary of State, who said that there are other possibilities to fill the fund. I was already working on creative possibilities to solve that. The Secretary of State was right that I was looking at another amendment. There was, I think, an official misunderstanding about how that should be arranged. That is why I am withdrawing Amendment No 1 first. 33 in. It's got to be behind the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u141	The Kooiman amendment (Doc. 33) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u142	We are trying to arrange it in a different way. I will now table a motion for this, but I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to say to me: no, we are really going to deal with this by means of an amendment. I hope to get some support for that, but for the time being I have to table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the addiction fund is the appropriate instrument to pay out gambling prevention and treatment;]] [[Considering that today only the licence holders of remote gambling are obliged to pay to the addiction fund, while other gambling games are addictive and users of those gambling games may also be able to call on the addiction fund;]] [[noting that distance gambling providers are now subject to a financial obligation that does not rely on providers of other games of chance, thus creating an uneven playing field;]] [[Considers that it is desirable for all gambling providers to pay to the addiction fund so that they all take responsibility for gambling prevention and treatment and create a more level playing field;]] [[calls on the government, by law, to ensure that all gambling providers pay the same percentage to the addiction fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kooiman and Mr Mei Li Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u143	Once again, I very much hope that the Secretary of State can help me and turn this motion into an amendment. If that's the case, I can also withdraw this motion. 'Cause of course, I prefer to take care of it through the royal road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u144	Mr. Chairman. We have had a good and, as Mr Kooiman said, long and intensive debate, with many written rounds. That is what is needed for such a subject. I'm glad we're doing it now. Gambling is not exactly an innocent game; it can lead to big problems. The PvdA considers it important that we regulate that. In the current situation, many people are gambling illegally and unprotected and there is nothing we can do about advertising. That could go on unbridled if we hadn't made this law. This means that the PvdA will wholeheartedly support this law. Above all, we welcome the cooperation with colleagues, in which we have made a number of amendments and motions for a law that wanted to liberalise, a law that is primarily going to regulate and dose. I think the law has really gotten better. At the same time, I say this to my colleague, Mr Van Toorenburg, I think we should hurry. We have now done a long time about this law. I do not think it is right to go into procedures with the Council of State again, not even for those who are now affected by the delay. In my contribution, especially in the second term, I mentioned the importance of monitoring and regulating advertising. If we learn anything from abroad, it is that the gambling companies will try to attract people to gambling by all means. We should not want that in the Netherlands, and we do not want that. I also hope that many of the motions and amendments that seek to regulate advertising will be adopted and that we in the Netherlands will have a unique approach to regulating this gambling market. I have four motions with which I hope to give this law even more the character of this Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that combating gambling addiction is one of the objectives of the Dutch gaming policy;]] [[Whereas the draft law provides for remote gamblers to be reminded by e-mail of their own playing limits;]] [[Whereas scientific research shows that the use of pop-up messages is the most effective way to warn players during gambling how long they play and how much money they have lost;]] [[calls on the government to impose on online gambling providers the use of pop-up messages for reminders of its own playing limits between the game moments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mei Li Vos and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u145	And then a motion on what we have exchanged on the situation in Belgium. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sports betting providers advertise aggressively during sporting events, as observed in Belgium at the European Football Championship;]] [[Whereas advertising for live betting is an additional incentive to gamble;]] [[whereas gambling advertising may only inform about legal offers, but should not encourage gambling;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit advertising of live betting during sports matches,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that experience from abroad teaches that gambling companies are aggressively advertising;]] [[noting that advertising is increasingly displayed online;]] [[noting that sports enthusiasts are very often targeted by the advertising of gambling companies;]] [[noting that minors are also often sports enthusiasts;]] [[believes that the Netherlands should learn from experience in regulating online gambling abroad;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the restrictions on the content of advertisements and warning texts;]] [[calls on the Government to enforce the same time limit for online advertising as for advertising on TV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mei Li Vos and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-56]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u146	Then this morning's final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers match fixing to spoil the sport;]] [[noting that the risk of match fixing is greater if individual players are sponsored by gambling companies;]] [[also considering that individual athletes are often seen as role examples by minors and that it is not desirable for role models to advertise gambling;]] [[calls on the Government to include a ban on individual sponsorship of athletes by gaming companies in the lower regulation;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Kooiman and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33996-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u147	Does Mrs Vos agree with me that the law we are discussing now, if we have received all kinds of amendments from the Chamber, really does not look like the proposal put forward by Secretary of State Teeven to the Council of State at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u148	This law is quite different, and also improved. I think that as a Chamber we can be very satisfied with the work we have done and with the changes we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u149	But isn't it always the case in a careful legislative process that you submit it to the Council of State, because it is our advisor in important legislation? If it is a completely different law now, should we not at least look at how long it would take and ask the Council of State if it could do that for us, because we should not be so easily allowed to skip this important advisory body when it comes to protecting vulnerable people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u150	I assume that the First Chamber, to which the bill is sent, will look closely at our amendments in the same way. I myself do not think it is necessary to send it back to the Council of State now. The changes we have made may be. The Secretary of State took a good look at it. I think it's improvements, too. As I said in my second-term contribution, I think that delay will be very bad for the people who are now affected by the unregulated offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u151	It is a pity that the idea of delay is particularly important here. Then we might as well never send anything back to the Council of State, because the ministers and secretaries of state always think about everything and so does the Chamber. There is now a completely different bill. Normally, we leave that to the Council of State. That's not unusual. I think it is a missed opportunity for the Labour Party not to support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u152	Thank you. The Secretary of State now has the texts of all motions and can apparently reply directly. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u153	Mr. Chairman. I shall first answer the questions and then come to a decision on the motions. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked to report suspicious gambling patterns to the sports clubs. I wholeheartedly support that. In lower regulations, we consider that a future licence holder who offers sports betting will be obliged to inform the sports federations about the races on which he offers bets. He should also warn if, on the basis of analyses, he identifies a risk of match fixing of a particular match. In this way, the unions can also assume their responsibilities. Mr Segers once again asked me if I could explain my objection to regulating something in the Media Act with which I agree. I am particularly concerned about providing clarity about who is the supervisor. If you include this in the Gambling Act, the Gaming Authority can also address those who facilitate illegal activity. The material functioning of the inclusion alone in the Gambling Act is therefore equal in my view. It avoids confusion, so that there will not be two authorities and the question arises as to who should go over it. I prefer one set of rules and one supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u154	In short, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u155	The amendment is clear: that is the Ksa. I have been very clear about this, the explanatory statement is clear about it, so there can be no ambiguity about it. If we have a double lock in the law because we're making sure it's safe and anchoring it in two places, where the Ksa is the supervisor, isn't there any uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u156	I'm afraid it might come into being. There are no sectoral prohibitions in the Media Act. Mr Segers speaks of a double lock, but you cannot pass the first one. As a facilitator, the Gaming Authority can also intervene with regard to the media companies. After all, you get a Media Act in which suddenly there is a power that is more part of the gambling sector, in which it is stipulated that the Ksa is the supervisor for that particular article and not the Media Commissioner. It does not, in my view, add anything to the force of enforcement. Let us then just settle it in the law that we are dealing with now and that applies to the sector, so that there can be no confusion about this later on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u157	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u158	Mrs. Swinkels asked about the social security number and said that she would rather not have many people available. I, too, think you should be cautious about this. The cabinet strives with the eID system, which is widely discussed in other committees, even that it does not need to do so at all. Then you can verify without having to have that information. Unfortunately, it is not yet possible to introduce it now. However, the provision in the law is worded in such a way that it can come out as soon as identification methods become available that are reliable without having to provide that information. You don't have to give your bsn anymore, because you have an alternative. I do not think it creates a precedent, because it is precisely something we are trying to phase out. It's not the first time it's been outside the government. You have to be reluctant about it, and that's why I think the rules we have are good. They should not keep that data, and as soon as better methods are available that do not require the bsn to be provided, we need to switch to those methods. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about voluntary registration. It is not that you can register after six months, because after six months the registration will expire automatically, unless you voluntarily extend. Mr Van der Staaij proposes 'how long that period may last', but that is not the crux for me. It's really in your head that you have to do an act, and then you have to set up a process to make it possible. At the same time, you raise the threshold for someone who thinks: I register now, because it is gone after six months, unless I extend it. The threshold to register is therefore lower. I hope, however, that the guidance was such that registration is no longer necessary or that someone realizes that it is better for him personally to extend it, because he will not get through the barrier if he is tempted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u159	In addition to that. This amendment actually makes voluntary registration in the CRUKS a disguised involuntary registration, as you can't get out when you want out. It also affects privacy, because it makes the product less proportional.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u160	You're still checking in voluntarily, but it's actually gonna be some kind of Hotel California.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u161	Mr Van der Staaij cannot ignore that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u162	The comparison with the check-out from a hotel, I think I'd better sit down. The VVD is now suggesting that the entire voluntary nature would be removed from the job, but that is certainly not the case. There will only be a little more time and we could also talk about the length of that period. The goal is that you can't unsubscribe in an impulse. If someone has crossed the threshold by deciding that he doesn't want to gamble for six months, isn't it so much that he's asked for some time to pass after he's put his finger up, because he wants to do it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u163	It's definitely not a weird idea either. I certainly did not judge the amendment in that way either, but I do think it would be even easier to register voluntarily for six months if you know that it is only for six months anyway, as it will expire afterwards. It is up to the care of that man or woman to ensure that people voluntarily prolong that registration. That feature of volunteering doesn't go away, but now it's just gonna go away. Someone now only has to do one action, register, and then it's clear that you have six months of no access and that you have to act if you want to extend that period. So the big difference is that you don't have to act to unsubscribe. I think the threshold to register is lower if you follow the bill. Mr Van der Staaij comes running to the microphone again and that remains exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u164	I'm sure it is, but the Secretary of State is now suggesting that the deadline is six months and that the registration will automatically expire afterwards. I don't think there's anything in the law that says it's a fixed term of six months. The deadline can therefore simply continue and people can then raise their finger at any time. If it had, it would not have been a logical amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u165	You can extend, but after six months it automatically lapses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u166	I would like to hear from the Secretary of State in what provision that is in, because that is not how I understood it. I did not understand that from the explanatory statement either. Perhaps the Secretary of State could take that point into account in his response to the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u167	Good. I'll do that in writing. Mrs. Van Toorenburg asked if you could buy off mistakes with a fine. The supplier wishing to comply with an authorisation must comply with the requirements. So you only get the license if you're reliable and meet the requirements. Then you have the group of providers who simply won't get a license because they're really getting on so much by the Ksa that we don't talk about it. Those are the real cowboys. They can't buy off the mistakes. So they don't get a permit. In addition, there are providers who are reliable, who comply with the priority criteria and who listen to the Ksa. However, they must be eligible for a licence. Then, of course, it is up to the Ksa to assess whether everyone is sufficiently reliable. Of course, it may be that soon after the Ksa has acted for past action, a party has begun to adhere to those priority criteria. This action is not being laundered by saying that we are now going to behave properly. For a small mistake, the fine should therefore be possible if the Ksa considers that appropriate. If you have really made a big mistake, you will not be eligible for a permit. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked about the legal basis in order to be able to intervene with non-resident persons in the Netherlands. For this we have methods that work particularly well with countries within the European Union. With the other countries, the Ksa must decide whether it intends to conclude an agreement with such a country in order to go along with it for enforcement. If something should go wrong, it is most effective of course that the licence of the holder of the licence is withdrawn and the person concerned is no longer entitled to make that offer in the Netherlands. In this way, we believe that the Ksa can also exercise proper supervision and enforcement in this system. I'll get on the motions. The motion in part No. 44 by Mr Van Wijngaarden and others on information on the pools. For the sake of clarity, the rules are that gambling tax only has to be paid when a third party organises the gambling game, and that no gambling tax is levied when a pool takes place in a private circle, between family, friends and colleagues. Indeed, in the past, as Mr Van Wijngaarden rightly said, reports have surfaced as if the Tax Administration were looking at polar winners and being after them. That has not been the case. I have been in contact with the Secretary of State for Finance on this matter. He is prepared to carry out the motion and to clarify it. In fact, I have already taken over the motion halfway. I'd be better off taking over the motion than judging it. I'm prepared to take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u168	I note that there is no objection to taking over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u169	Mr Segers, together with Mrs Vos, has put forward a number of points. 45 tabled a motion for a resolution on a national rapporteur on addiction. So that's wider than just gambling addiction. To limit myself to gambling addiction, we are already taking many measures to monitor and evaluate it. The evaluation is carried out by the WODC. This seems to me at first instance sufficient to await the initial evaluation. I do not see directly the added value of a separate rapporteur on addiction, which, of course, is partly concerned with matters outside my portfolio, namely as far as other types of addiction are concerned. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u170	A small explanation: it is not an evaluation, it is really a question of asking for and unsolicited advice on the model of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, where it works very well. So we are really asking for an investigation into whether such a rapporteur would have added value. The Secretary of State may, therefore, come to other conclusions on the basis of such an investigation. I think it is justified to create such a person, but that depends partly on the investigation that would take place on the basis of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u171	I do not want to bureaucrate, but I think it would be wise if, before I undertake this investigation, I first send a letter with my colleague in the health sector, stating whether we consider such an investigation to be useful. If we share the views of the proposers, we will do so. If we do not share them, the proposers can still try to convince us through a majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u172	You have until Tuesday to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u173	The motion in part No. Mr Segers and Mrs Kooiman spoke about the budget and formation of the Ksa. The government is requested to evaluate after one year whether the Ksa has sufficient capacity. I agree; we will. However, the motion also calls for additional budget and formation to be made available. We will monitor developments and stay in touch with the Ksa if there is sufficient capacity. In the end, it is up to the Ksa to say what is necessary about the funding. The department doesn't have the budget; that's from the market players. I dissuade the motion because it could lead to a shift in funding. The motion in part No. 48 by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Vos is about a bypassingstruc. It is quite possible that the Gaming Authority listened when the motion was read and that it is already aware. If it is still intended that the government brings this particular matter to the attention of the Gaming Authority, then I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 49 by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van der Staaij are about banning bonuses. We've already had that discussion. It is an obstacle to channeling if we let people try the game with an illegal provider and not with a legal provider. The current restriction that it can only be about generic bonuses and not about personal, specific bonuses and other guarantees is enough for me. I advise against this motion. The motions on the documents Nos. Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Kooiman refer to the Council of State. I'm judging the same thing. The Council of State has already advised at its core. Several MPs have already recalled that this was a very long process of law. That was not because we have been waiting all the time, but because everyone has expressed an opinion from all sides, there has been thorough weighing, round tables have been held and considerations have been made. I will not say that the amendments do not change the law compared to the original version of the letters of amendment have also taken the necessary steps, but their nature is not such as to require further advice from the Council of State. The argument that there is a delay is a reason for me to discourage both motions. What in the motion to part No. 8 by Mrs Kooiman, Mr Segers and Mrs Van Toorenburg, we are going to do so. This law aims to allow us to do more than ask. Once this law has been adopted, a binding indication can be given to achieve this. I know that will not be enough for Mrs Kooiman to vote in favour of this law, but there is a certain necessity in the motion, unless you do not want the law to be passed. Since I am defending the law and believe it should be adopted, I think it is appropriate to declare the motion superfluous in the hope that what the motion requires will become a reality by the adoption of this law. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The motion in part No. 53 by Mrs Kooiman and Mr Van Wijngaarden are dealing with the islands of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. They have autonomous gaming laws, so I can't promise much. There's already cooperation. The Gaming Authority has stepped up its cooperation with the fellow supervisors of these countries in recent years. That's an on-going offer, but I can't tell you that we're gonna do any more. We can't monitor the place there either. That's why I have to discourage the motion. In the motion in part No. 54 by Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Vos, it is foreseen that I will not keep my promise to participate in an amendment. I shall leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber, because it must assess whether I have been able to contribute to an amendment. I hope that by the time the votes take place the motion has been withdrawn or stopped. In the motion in part No. 55 of Mr Mei Li Vos and Mr Van Toorenburg asked the government to require the use of pop-up messages for reminders of their own playing limits between the moments of the game. I find it appropriate not to do that during a game, but when a new bet is required. If Mrs. Vos agrees, I can take over the motion. I see her nodding, but I don't know if that's enough for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u174	That is indeed the intention. That's why the operative part says, "...between the moments of the game..."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u175	With that explanation, I am prepared to take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u176	The Mei Li Vos/Van Toorenburg motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u177	In the motion in part No. 56 of Mr Mei Li Vos and Mr Van der Staaij asked the government to ban advertising of live bets during sports matches. The argument for the motion is based on comparisons with Belgium. Now there is a very big difference between the situation in Belgium and the intended situation in the Netherlands. In Belgium there is hardly any regulation of advertising. A lot of self-regulation has been done there. We do not choose to do so: we impose strict requirements on advertising and its nature. Particular attention is paid to the extent to which advertising is aggressive and misleading. Furthermore, advertising should not target vulnerable groups, such as minors. I do not expect the situation in Belgium to arise in the Netherlands with the rules we are proposing. If we focus very specifically on the type of game of chance that occurs in live gambling, I don't want to ban it. This is a form that is much needed, so I would like to offer a legal option. Advertising that meets all strict requirements must be possible. I therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u178	A brief question from Mrs. Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u179	It's not about banning live bets, it's about advertising during live bets. This is particularly encouraging, which is also evident in Belgium. That is exactly the kind of restriction we have to put on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u180	If you allow it, there must also be an opportunity to draw people's attention to it. We already have a lot of strict advertising rules, so I do not think that the rules you have proposed are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u181	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u182	In this case, the difference between "noticing" and "inciting" is very small, because it concerns live bets. I would like to put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u183	That's your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u184	In the motion in part No. 57 Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Kooiman asked the government to enforce the same time slot for online advertising as for advertising on TV. I advise against this motion, because online is a different environment than the TV environment. Online is more space- and time-independent, while the rules are also difficult to enforce. Of course, advertising aimed at young people under 24 is not allowed. I think that's a more important aspect to weigh in on-line ads than a time lock. The Ksa will therefore have to maintain that focus. The motion-Mei Li Vos c.s. in piece No. 58 is about banning individual sponsorship. This is a variant that I think is workable. A ban on a whole team or a whole club or a whole competition I think goes too far. I think that the grey area between when certain contacts are or are not more tempting or riskier or more prone to the risk of interference is greater with this motion. If the line is placed here, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u185	The Secretary of State has come to the end of the list of motions. There is, however, one question that remains open, namely the one about the gaming provider who was flagged with his sponsor agreement with the KNWU.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u186	That was a request for more information, but I don't have any more information available right now. It's a case that belongs especially to the Ksa. I will therefore have to discuss with her the extent to which we can provide information on this. I'm willing to see what's possible and then let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u187	Fine. We would like to know whether this provider has now lost its licence. We hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u188	Mr Van Wijngaarden, has there been a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u189	I have a question about the Secretary of State's latest pre-opinion on a ban on individual sponsorship. Can the cabinet take maximum account of its impact on Olympic sportsmen and avoid all kinds of undesirable effects? I would remind the Secretary of State of the concerns expressed by, among others, NOC*NSF. That organization has indicated that the Olympic athletes are also the victims of this. In that sense, I am somewhat surprised by the pre-advisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u190	I don't know if they're gonna get hurt. There might not be opportunities that aren't there at the moment. Sponsoring an individual athlete would not be possible for these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u191	I hear the Secretary of State say that if there really is an obvious risk of integrity, lower regulation may apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u192	Yes. I think the risk is greater if there's a one-on-one link. However, I do not want to give the impression that every individual sponsored athlete would lose its integrity through a sponsor deal. That's not true. It is a broader view of the sector, looking at where the risks and temptations lie. Then a one-on-one-link is more risky than when it comes to unions or teams or clubs. It's up to the Chamber to decide whether she wants to set the bar just before it or just after it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u193	This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill. We will be voting on the legislative proposal, the amendments tabled and the motions for resolutions next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u194	If many amendments are adopted, I can imagine that it would be nice to have a moment to reflect on the final votes on the legislative proposal. Then it can also be looked at technically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u195	How much time to think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u196	It's just that it's going to be split up for a while. We often do that in complicated legislative proposals with many amendments. Only the amendments will then be put to the vote and the next vote on the legislative proposal. In view of the complexity of this legislative proposal, that seems to me to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u197	I'd be fine with that. This also depends on how quickly the Secretary of State will be with the written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u198	I am very pleased that the Court has the answers to the questions on the amendments for Tuesday's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u199	Should this result in a short suspension or a cut in the vote, it is important to consult each other on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u200	We do this all the time, don't we? That we should vote on Tuesday on the amendments and on Thursday on the law. Can the Registry take into account that we shall first vote on the motions on bringing them to the Council of State? We can't do that anymore if we've already voted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u201	That's really gonna go in consultation with the Registry. We don't have to do that in plenary. I thank the Secretary of State and suspend until 2:00 p.m. Then we start with the commemoration of the attack in Istanbul.
