ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The implementation of the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Industrial Relations is becoming increasingly out of control. At first we saw that realzzp'ers were given fewer jobs and that there was great uncertainty in the labour market. Instead of permanent employment, payrolling is on the move. The number of posting structures is growing, and temporary employment agencies are experiencing golden times. There are a lot less start-ups, but it goes on and on. We also see that large companies such as ING, Rabobank, BAM, the Gasunie, Achmea, Dura Vermeer and many other companies in the construction and media have stopped hiringzzp'ers and terminated and converting contracts massively. The last time the Chamber was in a debate with the Secretary of State, he said there was nothing wrong. A rosy picture emerged from the State Secretary's progress report. Reality is, as usual, completely different. The functioning and implementation of this law is destroying the labour market. A lot ofzzp'ers can't make their living right now. We even hear groups ofzzp'ers saying that 10% of them no longer have any assignments at all. So you may want the labour market to be organized differently than it was before, but then as a decent government you have to make sure that the people who first legally earned their living can do so in a different way. It seems to be forgotten. That is why I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. Has he also received these signals from his hotline that these large companies, and indeed a number of ministries, are canceling massive contracts? What's the status on this hotline? What's he gonna do to make sure realzzp'ers aren't out of work? Is he prepared to put this down at the Boot Committee and ask for a mid-term report next week? The real problem, of course, lies in the concepts of "power ratio," which is nineteenth-century, and "personal work," which makes people in the post suddenly self-employed and not IT consultants, exactly the opposite of what is intended. Does the Secretary of State adapt these two concepts to the law with great speed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. These concerns are very recognizable and we must do something about them quickly. The distinction between employment and independence has not changed with the abolition of the VAR, but the Tax Administration will be able to maintain for the first time in ten years next year. Well, that's changed. As a result, clients and contractors are once again confronted with labour legislation that has always been there, but which we forgot for a moment. I am currently speaking to many clients and also to organisations of contractors. The hotline also delivers a lot. At my table all kinds of big clients and client organisations appear, because yes, there is also time for that in the agenda. Many clients and contractors tell us that what is a self-employed person according to the law is no longer in line with their practice. That is already apparent from that hotline. There have been many examples in this area from the Chamber before. Many of them say that, for example, the concept of "government relations" simply no longer fits the contemporary self-employed professional. That comes out a lot, also from that hotline. This leaves too large a grey area in some branches. There is no certainty in that grey area about what can and cannot be done. Because of this uncertainty, clients are also hesitant. According to the tax authorities professionals involved, in many cases they are overly hesitant, too hesitant often. It is clear that the firm guarantees given by me and by the Prime Minister to this cathedral that no fines will be paid to willing clients have not yet helped. We need to do something about that. It is now quite clear that information and model agreements are not the only means of achieving this. I promised a letter before 19 December, but I now intend to send it in November. I fully agree that real contractors and independent professionals should not be left with uncertainty, especially at a time when the economy is growing. The urgency is perfectly clear. I'll be there as soon as I can with a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	It is good that the Secretary of State sees the urgency, but it is very sad that a lot of contracts are first dissolved, probably with tens of thousands at the same time. This is the result of a law which, according to the Secretary of State, will not be enforced until 1 May. The government said that the solution could be delayed for a while, but many clients now say that they have to, because they are afraid of fines. Can I assume that in that letter of November there will be concrete proposals to really change the concept of a'mighty relationship', which, according to the Secretary of State, also needs to be changed? Can I assume that if azzp'er is putting tiles on a construction site and the boss of that construction site finds out that he has to do so at a certain time and not at a certain time, we are talking about work planning and not about an authority relationship? Because of the concept of "personal labour," all those people at PTT Post are perfectzzp'ers, because they can theoretically have their neighbor deliver the mail. Can I assume that's the end of that, so that law will work? Can the Secretary of State urgently consult with these big employers to ensure that there is a stand still so that he does not act while the whole field has already changed his way of working in a way he does not want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	The commitment that there will be no fines and post-taxes at the moment, not even at a later date, over the period that is running, has already been made. Furthermore, I'd like to talk about the letter as soon as it arrives, and it's coming soon. I'm working on it very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	The time to wait to change the concepts of "power ratio" and "personal labor" in the law is not there. I urge the Secretary of State to amend these two concepts in the law so that the law he stood for can also work. It doesn't work at the moment. If mail deliverers are thezzp'ers here and IT's can no longer take on a job, that is exactly the opposite of what is intended here in the legal treatment. Does he promise to do that? Does he want to talk to these big employers and ask them for a stand still?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	My conversation with many large companies and also representatives of large companies is ongoing. I'm gonna hold on to what I said. I continue with the greatest urgency with my letter I've been working on for some time. I'd like to talk to you about that as soon as it's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	I understand very well that the Secretary of State is willing to take the time for a letter. He says he wants to come with it in November. We welcome that, because the signals are indeed disturbing. My question is whether the Secretary of State could for the time being seek a solution in another assessment. The model contracts look very closely at, for example, an authority relationship. You can, however, feel barefoot that if certain rates are applied, you have to deal with someone who pays his income tax properly, has disability insurance, etc.? Such people, such as the knowledge workers, are at present the victims of the DBA Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	There are a variety of solutions on my desk. Again, I would like to say that I want to talk about the letter as soon as it is there. I look Mr Ziengs in the eye. I know that he wants an urgent solution and that he also thinks that we are not going to get there with just model agreements and information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	The Utrecht University of Applied Sciences, the public broadcaster, BNR, HEMA, ING, Tata Steel, KPMG, Rabobank and ABN AMRO I can still hire these zzp'ers endlessly. Now the Secretary of State is asking for patience again. However, that is not a story to all thosezzp'ers who have just lost their assignments. This cabinet has been going on for far too long. Motions to resolve that are consistently voted down by the coalition. Can the Secretary of State now undertake to ensure in that letter a full position for Zpp'ers and that they really get a place on the labour market, rather than being dismissed by Minister Asscher as squeezed lemons? Is he prepared to ensure that thiszzp'er gets a full place in labour law, even if Minister Asscher doesn't want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm not asking for patience here. I promised, in consultation with the Chamber, that I would send a letter on 19 December and I decided to send it to November. So I'm speeding it up, because there's a reason for that. We all feel the urgency here, so do I. I get a lot of clients and also organizations from contractors at my table. I think I know pretty well what's going on. That was all I needed to speed it up. So that letter's coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u12	It's nice to have that letter. If I look closely at ZiPeconomy to what the big companies have a problem with, then I see that they do have a lot of work forzzp'ers, but that they do not want to conclude contracts because there is uncertainty about the duration of contracts. The Secretary of State could point out in the letter that the uncertainty about the duration of the contract is not an obstacle, for example in the case of longer projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u13	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u14	You should also be able to carry out longer projects, for more than two years, withzzp'ers. Tata Steel, for example, is asking for clarity from the Tax Administration. Can the Secretary of State clarify this in his letter so thatzzp'ers can just stay on the job?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u15	The list of suggestions made by the Chamber is getting longer and longer, for which I am grateful. In the letter, I deal with all these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u16	I'd like to make another suggestion. A few times it has been recalled that there is a lot of noise on the line. This is a large grey area, some of your employees say that some companies may be wrongly afraid of it. In the eyes of the PvdA is a thorn in the eye that a number of payroll companies increase that noise and that it thus tries to increase its own turnover. So these companies offer to let thosezzp'ers work through a payroll construction. That's very unwelcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u17	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u18	The question is what will the Secretary of State say to the big companies that indicate that they employzzp'ers through payroll constructions to reduce their uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u19	There are payroll companies in shapes and sizes. Some of them are simply valid service providers who actually employ people, but there are also all kinds of organisations that abuse the situation. There are also types of organizations, no matter what you call them, that protect with prohibited constructions and offer false security. We just have to stop that. So I am not only talking to large companies, but I am also talking to industry associations and client organisations to get together, because that does not benefit anyone: we have nothing to buy false security and give up part of the margin for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u20	It seems that the problem will not be solved, even if the letter from the Secretary of State is there. In fact, a number of definitions and provisions could have to be adapted in the law. What process and what pace does the Secretary of State see for himself in this regard? It's only when we do that that we really solve something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u21	Now I hear that a letter that isn't even there doesn't solve the problem. Let's get the text on the table first. Then we'll talk about it. It is clear that the objective and urgency are shared by everyone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van der Linde's question on behalf of the VVD.
