ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. Thank you for joining us. We have five participants on the side of the Chamber, but only one person is going to speak. That is Mr Omtzigt of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr. Chairman. Shall I just come up with some names to file a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u3	We are going to look for a few, Mr Omtzigt, because we do not have enough members to form a quorum. You speak for a very select audience, let's just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u4	Europe is quite important and the deal between Turkey and Europe is very important. This is also recognised by this Minister and by the Members of Parliament present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u5	With that little phrase, do you hope to pull some members out of the pits of this building?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u6	Well, of course there is an internal television system and you can hope that one or two members think: I want to know this. Because full understanding of the deal between Turkey and Europe on the refugee crisis is very important, also in order to create acceptance. The choice of European leaders to make agreements with Turkey behind closed doors and then to put the European countries and the people of Europe before facts is not acceptable to the CDA Group. Earlier, I asked for openness about a letter containing more details about the deal. That is the letter from Commission President Juncker to Turkish Prime Minister Davutoğlu. However, this letter is not made public by the Dutch Government because it states that it is part of the European Commission's correspondence. However, the European Commission does not make it public in the European Parliament after questions from D66. This is extremely disappointing, because we cannot check what agreements have been made for the 3 billion. The government also gives the impression that it does not intend to pursue this very hard. She doesn't see that as her job. In fact, I was advised to turn to the European Commission myself. I can do that, but I prefer to address the Dutch Government. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the content and implementation of the EU-Turkey deal on refugees should be fully transparent;]] [[having noted that Commission President Juncker sent a letter to Prime Minister Davutoğlu, setting out precise commitments between the EU and Turkey;]] [[noting that the Dutch Government is aware of this letter as an official EU document;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that this letter becomes public immediately and until then not to participate in further negotiations on the payment of EUR 3 billion of aid to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1575]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u7	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Omtzigt for the question. It is true that Mr Omtzigt spoke earlier about that letter. It is also true that the cabinet is not authorised to publish a letter between the European Commission and the Turkish Government. We can inform the Chamber of the contents of that letter. We have done so at four times, first of all during the answer to Parliament's questions on 15 December. We also sent a letter of formal notice on 4 December with our appreciation of the annual enlargement package. Parliamentary questions were answered around the EU-Turkey Summit on 7 December. Information was given back then. Finally, on 26 November, the Court received information on the opening of negotiations with Turkey on Chapter 17. The government has therefore informed the Chamber of the content of that letter. In material terms, therefore, the Chamber is aware of this. I now turn to Mr Omtzigt's motion for a resolution. I make two proposals to Mr Omtzig. The first is that the House of Representatives can indeed submit a request to the Commission to make the letter public. The Court of Justice may have brought this about in the consultations it had with the Commission on 7 January, but I do not know, because at the request of the Chamber, the consultations took place behind closed doors. Maybe that's when it came up. So, Mr Omtzigt, the Chamber can do that. Secondly, I am aware of the request made by the European Parliament to the European Commission and I am very prepared to ask the Commission to respond quickly to requests. I am very willing to do mine, but unfortunately we are not authorized to reveal that letter directly. We have, of course, brought the contents of this to the attention of the House of Representatives at the various times I mentioned. For these reasons, I would like to make an effort in this way, but I shall reject the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u8	You mean dissuade, for the sake of completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u9	Yeah, dissuade it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u10	Rejecting Minister Ploumen can be left to the government's political groups. In itself, I think it is positive that the Minister has indicated that he wishes to make this request to the Commission. I too will certainly write a letter to the Commission. But I think the government is here because it sits with the Commission every day. Could I see this as a commitment from the Dutch Government to write a letter to Mr Juncker asking for the letter to be made public either in the European Parliament or to the Dutch Government and to reply quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u11	My offer is to ask the Commission to reply to requests for disclosure, as they have been or are being made, as soon as possible, assuming that Mr Omtzigt is going to take that initiative. If I listen to him properly, he will. I now assume that the Commission will reply soon, because it is watching and listening, of course. Should there be any reason to discuss this further, it may be possible to do so at a later date. However, it seems to me that a request from the Lower House will be taken very seriously by the Commission. Once again, Mr Omtzigt, the Chamber and you, President, know the contents of the letter, because we have made statements about it. However, we are not authorized to hand over the document as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u12	We suspect that the letter mentions specific documents which are linked to each other and which are now in all sorts of pieces. So we'd like to just read it. But there's still a small difference and that's why I have an enlightening question. The Minister says: I will ask for that letter to be answered soon. I must say that the European Commission sometimes responds to letters from MPs more quickly than the Dutch Government. That's not the problem. Will the Dutch Government support that the answer should also be positive as far as the Dutch Government is concerned, that this letter should simply be made public? That is the support I ask of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u13	I am pleased to hear that the European Commission can respond so quickly. Of course, as a cabinet, we would prefer to win that race. Let Parliament now put that question to the Commission. The Dutch Government has gladly fulfilled its obligation to provide information by revealing the content of the letter in these various ways. So it is really up to the Commission. Once again, I will ask the Commission to deal with this urgently and seriously, but they will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u14	Again, the question is not...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u15	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u16	I understand, because normally the interruptions are in two, so thank you for allowing me to do so. It wasn't my concern that it would be treated quickly. I was concerned that the Dutch Government should also take the view that the House of Representatives has the right to see the content of that letter. That is what we are asking here. This kind of letter is about deals that Dutch taxpayers will soon have to contribute to. 2.5 billion should be raised by the Member States. The Dutch parliament is asked to provide the Dutch part of the 2.5 billion. He'll have to say yes or no to that later. My request to the government is not only to ask for a quick response, but also to respond positively, as this affects the basic budget right of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u17	The amounts mentioned by Mr Omtzigt are not entirely correct, but that is another debate. I would like to be a postillon d'amour between Mr Omtzigt and Mr Juncker. I will ask the Commission in this way: look at that request, please do it quickly. I will convey the message of Mr Omtzigt, of the Chamber, that they would like it to be revealed. I'll do it that way. Then we'll meet. I would like to say once again, even though I do not wish to provoke the anger of the chairman by repeating that the Dutch Government has informed the House of Representatives of the content of the letter, as it should be. I will talk to the Commission about a request being made, with the question of answering that request. I will also say that the House of Representatives in the Netherlands will appreciate it very much if that letter will be sent to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u18	That's clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-24.u19	On Tuesday we shall vote on the motion. Thank you very much to the Minister for her presence and thanks to the Chamber.
