ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Security and Justice, as well as the people in the public gallery and those who follow this debate in a different way. I can see Mr Verhoeven standing in front of the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. We just received, I think, five minutes ago, a letter from the Minister of Security and Justice in which, on the basis of my request yesterday, he stated that all the versions of the letters to which the Member of Parliament Van der Steur wrote in 2014 were sent to the Chamber, because there are 30 versions to be sent, that this is not possible because of a restore problem of the mailbox; that is cynical, by the way, because a restore is almost a central point in this debate, but I do not want to go that way now. The Oosting Committee has all 30 versions at its disposal. So I would like to ask whether we can find a solution to this by taking 15 minutes to contact the Oosting Committee and see if there are the necessary documents. If that doesn't work, as far as I'm concerned, we can start in 15 minutes, but I really want the Cabinet to make an extreme effort to do it. That one version is there and why aren't the other versions suddenly there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u3	You're actually making an order proposal. That's the bottom line. I see the Minister wants to respond to that. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to Mr Verhoeven for this question. The question that was raised yesterday in the order of business concerns, as I understand it, the request made by Mr Verhoeven to send all the versions on which comments had been made by my side to the Chamber. We did so in the letter with the annex that had been sent earlier. A further version was then sought. As can be seen from today's letter, it was not found because it was not part of the Director-General's file on Justice and Law Enforcement. The other versions have all been made available, the entire file of the Director-General of Law and Law Enforcement has been made available to the Oosting Committee. Those are all official versions. There is no comment on that from the MP Van der Steur. For this purpose, they are not given to the Chamber because they are official preparatory work. In this exceptional case, we have made the exception for my comments, because I was not only a Member of Parliament but also a member of the government. Under that exceptional condition, we sent that version to the Chamber, as requested by the Chamber. Later we also looked for the version on which I made further comments, but it was not found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr Verhoeven, an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u6	In response to what the Minister says, the following. So the Minister says: I do not want to send letters that have been made up of officials to the Chamber. I fully agree with that. I have always said that I do not need letters that are edited in the department by officials. Then the Minister says that there is no letter other than version 25 with his comments. But then it must really be the case that it doesn't come up at another time, at a later stage. That is what the Minister really stands for. This is the only version of the letter there is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr Verhoeven, this is really a procedural proposal, whether we start the debate or later. Anything to do with this discussion can also be part of the debate. And we have to start with that. So I would like to keep these two things separate, procedurally and substantively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u8	Then may I try to combine it with the next order proposal? I would like to give the Minister or the Cabinet 15 minutes to ensure that there are no other letters from the Minister of Security and Justice working on text drafting before we start the debate. If the Minister says 'there are absolutely no such things, there is only one, and that is this one', we can start the debate as far as I am concerned. Then that's the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u9	That's two questions. The order proposal is to start 15 minutes later. I'm gonna go check on other MPs first. It is up to the Chamber to decide whether or not it supports that order proposal. I see the Minister has something else to say. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me get this straight. There is a version that the Chamber knows and that is the version on which I have commented and which is dated May 28, 2014. He knows the room. As I wrote in the letter I just sent to the Chamber, a further version of the comment was sent to me. I have commented on that once again. That is the second version of the letter of 3 June. That comment never reached the Director-General of Law and Law Enforcement. So there are two versions of the letter to which I have commented. The extensive commentary version is already known to the Chamber. Then there was another reaction from my side. As I've just indicated, we've been looking for that and we've turned everything upside down, but there isn't that version. Should she still come up, I will send her to the Chamber immediately. After all, that fits in with the line we have set out at the request of the standing committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u11	We are not going to talk about the different versions, because they are part of the debate. We are now going to decide whether to start the debate immediately or whether to start it later. I give the floor to everyone, first of all to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u12	If I understand Mr Verhoeven correctly, he would like to see if that other version is available at the Oosting Committee. If it takes 15 minutes, I'm willing to give him that 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u13	It is, of course, a perfectly reasonable request to send the second version of that important letter to the Chamber. The minister said he's been looking for that for a day, but he hasn't been able to find that version. I find that difficult to believe, but we'll talk about it later. If he has not been able to find the version, I do not think there is any point in holding this debate for another 15 minutes. However, I keep the Minister's promise that he will immediately inform the Chamber as soon as the version is found, even if it is during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u14	I am also in favour of simply starting the debate so that we can bring up all the questions, grievances and concerns neatly from behind the speaker's seat and we can hear the reaction of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u15	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u16	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u17	I, too, agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u18	Let's start the debate. The Minister will send us the information if there is any reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u19	We're gonna start the debate. I give the floor to Mr Segers, who speaks on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. I once stood by the interrupting microphone and heard what Minister Opstelten said about the settlement amount in the Teeven deal. You felt it wasn't right at the time, and that feeling never went away. After three investigations, two retired rulers, a retired President of the Chamber and a flood of details, that is a painful observation. This affects the relationship between Chamber and Cabinet, and between politics and citizens. Both relationships have been damaged. It's gonna be a while before that damage is repaired. The second report by the Oosting Committee once again sketches a shattering picture. The ultimate goal of all these reports has always been the truth: the truth about the Bitch Deal, the truth about the receipt and the truth about the action of the top of the ministry. We must note that the one who says he knows everything, Mr Teeven, does not want to say everything and that the one who heard almost everything, top official Cloo, says he has forgotten everything. In addition to that, the Ministry of Security and Justice's messed up. It's like Yes, Minister. The only reason Mr Oosting does not want to speak of a cover-up is that he does not believe that the Ministry is capable of organizing a cover-up. It can't be much more painful, especially for the prestige project of the VVD: the superministry of Security and Justice. It is not the first time that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice has been shining the jaws of the Chamber; think for example of Oosting I, Bart van U., Volkert van der G., the attacks in Brussels and Professor Maat. A lot of things went wrong over and over again. I have five points on the report by the Oosting Committee. First of all, I come to the role of the Prime Minister. From the very beginning, he kept himself away from the whole bitch deal. He didn't want to know. He let the whole bitch deal slip away and left it on the minister's plate. Surely it is not a display that the Prime Minister sits on his hands when things get so out of hand, just when the relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet is at stake. It seems as if we get a little more information from each report about the involvement of General Affairs and the Prime Minister in the choice not to appoint an independent investigator. How's that? My second point is the role of the Minister for Security and Justice as a Member of Parliament. This minister, when he was a Member of Parliament at the Ministry, sat down and wrote a letter to himself about the Bitch Deal. We've received a black-painted letter before, but this gives a very different picture. I painted orange what was passed on to changes and that's really a lot. This gives a very different picture than the previous letter, which mainly contained black beams. So Mr Van der Steur did not just make some suggestions, as he said earlier. In 2014, he practically rewritten the entire letter about the Bitch Deal. State law is his diligent typing impure coffee. This cannot be accepted in any way. The worst part is that the minister pretends it's common for MPs to tick ministries letters to themselves on these kinds of issues. That's not common. In addition, MP Van der Steur has made the lyrics about the search for the receipt less definite. I don't think that's possible. If he was wondering if there was a good search, he should have said something about it in 2014, not in the margin of a letter but in the Chamber. After all, he was paid to control the government. The third point is the role of top officials. This concerns first of all the question of looking for the receipt itself. It is very unsatisfactory that the highest official of the Ministry has forgotten that another official, Mr Hogendoorn, had informed him of the existence of a backup on which the missing receipt could be found. It is bizarre that the day after the resignation of rulers and Bitches set up two other top officials Hogendoorn with the question: didn't you call Cloo in 2014 and say there was a backup? How could they know what Mr Cloo had forgotten? Why didn't they report that to Oosting I immediately? The amnesia in this case is very disturbing. It may not be possible to establish whether this is a cover-up, but we cannot rule it out either. That's exactly why a lot of people are angry about the whole thing. My fourth point is the unjustified accusation to the ICTs. The blame for not finding the receipt has been put in the hands of the wrong people. It was really wrong that the Minister and the Secretary of State accused the ICTs here in December without any foundation. They were briefed that way. Where did this come from? The fifth point is the digital forgetfulness in the ministry. It's an old joke at the Binnenhof: if you want to keep a secret, you have to say it out loud in the House of the First Chamber. The Senate is finally done with that joke, because today it is better to put a secret in the archives of the Ministry of Security and Justice and inform the ministry's official summit about it. No one's gonna hear about it anymore. That image of this case is detrimental to confidence in politics and government. I am concerned about the threat of digital forgetfulness in the government. I would like to know what the Minister will do about it and what the cabinet will do about it. What has been done with the recommendations of the Heritage Inspectorate after Oosting I? Things have to change at the Ministry of Security and Justice. The minister keeps saying "I've started a cultural change" or "I'm working on it." That reminded me of Fokke and Sukke: the cultural change at the ministry is scheduled for Thursday afternoon at 3:30. A culture changes not with words, but with deeds. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the division of this superministry and now the answer to the many outstanding questions of our group is concerned. There's a lot of explaining to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. After the thick report from Oosting I, the book couldn't close. New facts came, which more than justified further investigation. Again a compliment to Mr Oosting and his team for the meticulous work. For the fourth time, we are allowed to debate the wrong deal that then prosecutor Fred Teeven made with a drug criminal. The deal with which a criminal is enriched and cheated on society. This issue has become a symbol of many problems in the Ministry of Security and Justice. I am not even talking about the huge deficits in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the justice system, but above all about the chaos in the direction of the Ministry. Two rulers and some top officials have already left on the occasion of this deal with a criminal, but that doesn't solve the problems. In fact, the Oosting Committee reveals that the problems are much greater: no direction, bad cooperation, every-for-one culture and mistrust. This is the result of six years of VVD at the superministry of Security and Justice: an administrative chaos. How does the Prime Minister look back on six years of VVD in the Ministry of V and J? How is things really going to be put in order at the Ministry? What does all this do with confidence in the rule of law and politics? The Prime Minister was very firm in the debate in December 2015: no attempt has been made to cover anything. Shortly afterwards it appeared that in June 2014 the ICT department was much closer to finding the receipt than the Prime Minister knew or wanted to know. The order was then omitted to search. That's what lingers with me. The whole report gives a deafening picture of how things are going in the ministries. Everyone is more busy with the question "how do we tell the Chamber without political harm?" Then with the question "how do we find out the truth and the hard facts?'. There were more than thirty draft versions of one letter of Parliament, with the conclusion that nothing could be found before the search had even begun. The Ministry of General Affairs was involved. Congressmen of the coalition wrote to it. During the reconstruction, the protagonists do not suffer from shame, but from memory loss. The important memo showing the search for the receipt in 2014 has been read at a high level, but it stays there. No one called the bell when the Oosting I investigation did not mention the crucial report. How is this even possible? The fact is that the top has not eagerly gone looking for the uncomfortable truth. In any case, this has been done in order to minimise publicity. The truth is not an option on which you can write thirty concepts. The truth, there's only one of them. Coalition interests and saving rulers were at the forefront, not the truth finding; fair appearances above the harsh facts. Questions about the involvement of the Ministry of General Affairs and the Prime Minister have not been answered personally. It is written openly about direct involvement of the Prime Minister: first in choosing the researcher Van Brummen, who did not find the truth. Next, officials from the Ministry of General Affairs refer to passages in a letter to the House as "politically risky." Furthermore, I quote: MP can only agree to mention Fred and not send him an annex if it has been agreed with spokesmen that these matters will not be considered before, during and after the debate. Asked about this, the Prime Minister doesn't remember. There we have it again: like more key players in this dossier, the Prime Minister suffers from amnesia. Can the Prime Minister comment on his personal involvement? What qualification can he give for this? So far, nothing shows that the Prime Minister has contributed to finding the truth. Ministers are responsible for this blunder, but not the officials and certainly not the officials in the ICT department, who have done a good job in this matter. And yet, in December's debate in the Chamber, Minister Van der Steur told them: "The information could have been found sooner if they had the right people for ICT." A misplaced remark! This is a minister's mistake. In the meantime, the Minister has explained to these ICTs how this misunderstanding could arise and that his statement has been removed from the context, but this is of course no misunderstanding. Where is the Minister's self-reflection and why does he systematically not acknowledge that he is wrong and blame others? The involvement of MPs from PvdA and VVD in the creation of a letter of inquiry fits seamlessly in the picture of a coalition that is not eagerly looking for reality. MP Van der Steur wrote cabinet letters to himself. Officially inappropriate! He made 18 comments and more adjustments to a crucial cabinet letter. Passages were deleted and amounts crossed out. He became the director of the executive, a whisperer for failing VVD colleagues. This is not only embarrassing, but especially very damaging to all Dutch people who want to be able to count on the integrity of politicians. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De SP kan na dit alles niet anders dan concluderen dat de samenleving bedonderd is.]] That the deal isn't right and that the Chamber has been misinformed, we already knew that. But now we know how it happened. It's a mess at the Department of Security and Justice. At the highest level, nothing happened to get the truth about this case on the table, while the truth was before the picking up. The truth turns out to be an option for the VVD. This is detrimental to confidence, and I very much resent the VVD, this minister and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr. Chairman. Like many Dutch people, I was out in the sun last night. I was in a park outside our apartment. My neighbors saw me with big piles of paper and files and said, "What are you gonna do tomorrow?" I said, "I have the debate on Oosting." Then they looked at me surprised: what was that about again? Oh, yeah. That was something with a VVD guy who helped a VVD minister with his letter. Another knew what more: "That was the VVD at the Ministry of Security and Justice." Well, they used nasty terms about the ministry, but the message was that it wasn't running smoothly. The statement of the CDA was also discussed: "Did it not occur that it was actually run as the party office of the VVD?" Those were the associations of my neighbors. When we talked a little bit, I noticed that no one remembered that it was a very bad deal with a criminal, who got away with incredibly much money. A few finally came up with Fred Teeven: "Isn't that the main character in this story? Why isn't he ever thoroughly cut by an independent person about what's going on?" That is also one of my questions to the rulers here. Then it came to mind that it was only thanks to our Dutch media that it actually started to roll. So there was some admiration coming out of my neighbors' mouth about the fact that Nieuwsuur I had to help them to get it up to two times. I have also said that it is now the third research report. They should all have been independent and all the facts should have been brought to the fore. That led to the question again: "Why do you have that third report and why does a fifth chamber debate need to be held?" Everyone understands that it was not very easy to explain how parliamentary democracy works in the Netherlands. I would also like to have a reflection of the rulers on that. We are always very high on all kinds of lists of well-functioning parliamentary democracies, and I wonder whether these rulers are ashamed of this whole affair. There should actually be a warning on the door of the Ministry of Security and Justice for people who are going to work there, saying that it is very bad for your health to do so, because it leads to memory loss. Minister Blok has already done so within one week, as the documents show. What exactly is going on out there? Is there at that ministry an image of looking away, of amnesia, of fulfilling very minimal responsibilities, in the vein of: I passed it on to one person and then it's okay? What about the direction? Is that with the sg, with the minister or with the prime minister? In the round table I asked Oosting if the Chamber could receive an overview of all the times when General Affairs or AZ employees or our Prime Minister himself were involved in this dossier. I couldn't get such an overview from Oosting, but I would like to know specifically from our Prime Minister whether anyone from AZ or the Prime Minister himself has contributed to draft versions of that letter. Did General Affairs or our Prime Minister know about the interference of a Member of Parliament or Members of Parliament with these concepts? Has anyone at AZ or the Prime Minister then wondered how writing related to the controlling task of a Member of Parliament and, more importantly, how that related to the information position of the rest of the House of Representatives? I would like to be judged by our Prime Minister on his own role in this matter and on the role of the department for which he is responsible. When things get bigger and more complicated, you expect direction from our Prime Minister. Then I come to speak about the MP Van der Steur. According to the GroenLinks group, the letter drafted by MP Van der Steur is really a state-law novel. I do not believe that there has been a government representative who has ministerial responsibility for the way in which he controlled the cabinet as a spokesman in the Chamber. That is complicated and very unwelcome, we think. "That's bullshit," said MP Van der Steur, foretold, and he was right. Then very little remains of the original draft letter, as colleagues have just said. Facts, figures and determinations are deleted and replaced by concealing phrases. One of the defense lines of MP Van der Steur is that he helped as a lawyer. My group's question then is whether there were not enough lawyers in the Department of Security and Justice. How much interference has there been in the letters sent since the arrival of the Minister of Security and Justice, in the form of concepts, consultations, improvements and additions? I'd like to hear the same from our Prime Minister. Has this been rough and rough in the last year, including on other files? Are there whole sets of redacted letters everywhere? Or is the degree to which this has been written, changed and disguised truly exceptional? Why hasn't there ever been an independent investigation in this whole story in which more work has been done on the role of Secretary of State Teeven, the only real protagonist in the entire ticket affair? After all, he said it rather proudly: I'm the only one who really knows what it's like and I'm not gonna say anything. Why is there not an independent and thorough investigation, for example by the General Court, in which you could get these things on the table? I see my time is running out. The Oosting II report still outlines a series of mere coincidences, wrong decisions and lost memories that harm the truth, while the receipt was for the proverbial pick-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. District Attorney Teeven made a deal of 4.7 million guilders tax-free with a drug criminal, without the Minister's permission. Then the receipt was gone, after which none of the persons concerned wanted to know where it was. In this political swamp, something was lost that was always in store. In this mess, people's trust in the Ministry of Security and Justice disappears, which should ensure justice and security. On behalf of D66, I would also like to thank the Oosting Committee for its second report, which gives an unheard-of view in a simple search for a bizarre search. In addition to chaotic attempts by those involved, we see in particular how the political summit was on his hands and, if one did stick out their hands, seriously disturbed the tour. The lack of urgency on such a politically sensitive dossier is appalling. Was this passivity a conscious strategy? In any case, it has led to the question of trust, as former Minister Opstelten called it, becoming a matter of shame about truth finding in our rule of law and in politics. Oosting does not want to call the course of events a cover-up. But whoever reads the research report sees a staggering series of events. VVD-Room member Van der Steur who, with insider knowledge, advises amnesia. Prime Minister Rutte who steers a flawed investigation and demands that Bitches be kept out of it before, during and after the debate. Collective forgetfulness among senior officials and directors, as if there's something in the tea at the ministry. Minister Blok who gets a crucial fact-finding report, but fails to give it to Oosting. And a committee of inquiry that won't get all the information in 2015. There have been cardinal errors of judgment, which run counter to the Prime Minister's promises after Oosting I. In December, the Prime Minister went through the dust. He had learned his lesson and he spoke: there is no policy on not getting all the facts out. Did we know everything there was to know about the deal and the receipt? Yeah, said Rutte and Van der Steur. That proved to be a promise with the expiration date of only one month, because Oosting I was barely ready or Oosting II could take office. Sixteen years, four debates, three Newscasts, hundreds of written questions, five searches and two Oosting investigations later, it turns out that the receipt was always there for grabs, just in the Ministry and simply in the file. The receipt was easy to find, but the search was made very difficult. That once again raises many questions, starting with the Prime Minister. He insists that he had nothing to do with the choice of researcher Van Brummen. On page 82 of the Oosting II report, however, we read something else: after close consultation with AZ/MP General Affairs/Minister-Prime Minister, we received the flawed investigation. I ask the Prime Minister, did he or did he not interfere? On page 87 of Oosting II it says that the Prime Minister demanded that Teeven remain out of order before, during and after the debate. The Prime Minister doesn't remember. Another strange moment of forgetfulness. Does his memory only work when it suits him? Under the leadership of this Prime Minister, top officials and cabinet members suddenly suffer from forgetfulness when they find the truth. It is nothing but an insult to the East Commission, to the Chamber, to politics and to the electorate. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: who is actually responsible for this mess? Now, after 16 years, do we really know everything we need to know? Then my questions to the Minister of Security and Justice. In 2015 we were just talking about it.He wrote intensively with it to the press release of Opstelten. What we didn't know is that at the infamous cabinet letter of June 3, 2014 he acted as a kind of ghostwriter with insider knowledge and that he advised memory loss at Teeven. Did he have Van Brummen's secret report before the House of Representatives? Where did he base on the fact that the memories of Bitches were insufficient? Why didn't he report his intensive interference to Oosting I when he could, because this all happened in 2014? What does he think of his curious role in this whole and in the conclusion of this cabinet letter? When Oosting was appointed, the minister promised that he would do everything in his power to help the committee get information. Now we know that the Oosting I committee didn't have all the information. How does the Minister look back on his responsibility in producing sufficient and necessary information for the committee? The Oosting Committee also found that the accusations made by the Minister to the ICT staff were not justified. Has he publicly apologized by now? If not, is he going to do that today? The exchange of information and the lack of political morality must stop. Truth finding and transparency must come first again and the Ministry of Security and Justice must be put in order. Will these rulers be able to do that? Do they have sufficient self-reflection, discipline and administrative determination? Now that all the officials involved are gone, the political summit is still there. What's it gonna change about itself? Will the change programme be given an extra chapter or will the biggest change be made in the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Oosting Committee for the second report we adopted on 25 May. ........................................................................................ The conclusion of the Oosting Committee in this further investigation report is that there has been no cover-up. In fact, the Ministry of Security and Justice is even too disorganised for that. If it were a cover-up culture, it would of course have been totally reprehensible. But you can say it turns out to be even worse. The Committee expresses this diplomatically with the words that the organisational capacity is lacking, as well as the administrative capacity to effectively cover matters and keep them that way. In English: a mess. The search for the receipt went unorganized. The secretary-general let everything go, involved worked side by side and so on. The report states that without the intervention of the Director of Financial and Economic Affairs, who did contact the director of SSC ICT, the trail and the search for the payment data would probably have died. SSC ICT could have been made clearer, but none of these employees were asked. In fact, during the debate on 16 December last year, Minister SSC blamed ICT. He indicated that the receipt could have been found a year earlier if the company had the right people for the ICT. However, the back-up was indeed found, but the order for the follow-up was not given the actual finding of the receipt................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, all those responsible have already left the scene, and as far as my group is concerned, that is only right. The only one left is the current minister. His comment in the debate on ICT staff on 16 December last year is incorrect and unjustified. A "déjà vu" feeling prevails. In this case too, the Minister was too quick to reach his conclusions. A word of apology to the employees involved would indeed be appropriate, so more than a visit to explain. The Oosting II report, that is what I call it, is about the search for the receipt. In that context, the conclusion of the letter of 3 June 2014 to the Chamber is important. The purpose of that letter was to put an end to the entire discussion of the amount paid to Cees H. This case is now popularly called "the Also Deal." The subject of that letter is not without reason 'answers to further questions of the Chamber'. There have been about thirty versions of this letter. This too is a sign of incompetence in the Ministry of Security and Justice with the sad highlight of the intervention of then MP Van der Steur in the twenty-fifth draft of those four-page letter. Apparently, that draft letter was still rattling in such a way that then MP Van der Steur had no less than eighteen comments. Only two lousy paragraphs survived his red pen. I didn't want to print the letter in color. After all, you would need sunglasses to read these. In practice, members of the coalition parties are sometimes consulted or informed about planned policies that affect their portfolio, or, with an expensive word, sunk. Why is the behaviour of then MP Van der Steur so bad? As far as my group is concerned, there are two reasons. Firstly, this issue was not a policy arising from the coalition agreement. This was a political issue, in which two directors, each for another reason, had been put in a serious position. The Chamber was right to ask for clarification from the Ministry. I have just said that the subject matter of the letter was not for nothing: answer further questions to the Chamber of Appeal settlement Cees H. Secondly, an MP should not help to dress up information to the Chamber, of which he himself is a member, in such a way that there is political support for the explanation of the ruler to the Chamber. That's exactly what happened here. Let me give you a few examples of the remarks made by then MP Van der Steur in the 25th draft of the letter:'maybe too much of the good'; 'I am very unhappy that the prosecutor was not consulted at the time, but that is what comes of it'; 'I don't believe anything of it, because the retention periods have not changed';'remark cannot be true'. In finding money for the national police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that they can continue to carry out their duties, the minister must be active and must put his weight into the fight in relation to the PVV. He has no duty to keep a governror who is in danger of getting into trouble out of the wind by souffling information to the Chamber. Sondering is one thing, souffling something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr. Chairman. Things are getting crazier with the Ministry of Security and Justice. Imagine, the previous minister asked for advice from a member of parliament and party colleague on the communication and progress of the controversial Teeven deal. The former minister left, along with his secretary of state and fellow party member. The advisory MP then became the new minister and the secretary of state who had to resign became MP. What should we call this? I can think of all kinds of less decent terms for it, but let me sum it up as "extremely unbelievable." How does the Minister intend ever to repair this damage to his ministry and to politics in general? I really want an answer to that. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the credibility of this minister has long fallen below zero, and it is only getting worse. With everything that has happened wrongly informed, not informed, clumsyly informed, 50PLUS seriously wonders how this minister can still act with authority, now that he has helped the previous minister to inform the Chamber, let us say very selectively. There is one thing that this minister had a forward-looking view of: that comes to shit. Well, that was right. In its second report, the Oosting Committee also made a devastating assessment of the operation of the Teeven Deal and even more about the functioning of the Ministry of Security and Justice. The most wretched, but also striking conclusion that the committee drew: there was probably no cover-up, because such a situation presupposes in any case the organizational capacity to effectively cover things up and keep them that way. In other words, the Ministry hangs together in such a way that it is not only in a positive way but also in a negative way capable of little. A big cleanup at the top has been started and the next step should be splitting the ministry. Bring the security part back to Home Affairs, then that minister has a decent portfolio again and the direction is manageable and manageable. The message is clear. This split has been advocated before. Let us not delay this decision any longer. As long as this cabinet is still in the saddle, it can start the necessary preparations. There's no time to lose. This should not be part of the post-election discussions. We can talk for hours in this debate about something that probably never comes up. What's the point? Stop staring in the rearview mirror and look ahead. Although it is not customary, I would therefore like to table a short motion in the first term, if you and my colleagues allow it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u26	Then let's see if the Chamber is okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u27	Perhaps Mr Krol could give an explanation? Normally, you ask the government a question first, you wait for the answer and you don't file a motion if that answer is satisfactory. There must be an explanation in order to assess whether it is so exceptional that we should do it in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u28	As I have just indicated, I believe that the ministry should be split up. That's what my motion is about. I think it's a shame to be meeting on that until 11:00 tonight. As far as I'm concerned, I can do that now. Then it's clear to everyone, including the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u29	If Mr Krol insists on tabling a motion, he must do so in particular, but I would like to say that I do not think that is so fancy. We have a debate here with the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister. We invited them because we want to ask them questions. I think it's nice to wait for the answers to that, because otherwise we might as well all go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u30	In this case, that would not be so unwise, because let us be quite honest: Mr Van Oosten and I both know that at the end of the day we will have no solution whatsoever. That's what I'm trying to do right now. People at home are getting tired of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u31	I think that a subject such as the division of the ministry justifies a separate debate. I cannot support the tabling of this motion without the debate. So I will not support the submission. If there are five other Members of Parliament who do support the submission, that is possible, but I do not support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u32	Will Mr Krol respond to that? I see that this is not the case. Then I'm going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u33	I haven't been here very long, but I only remember a motion in Mr Wilders' first term. However, it was about giving up trust. That's urgent. This is not urgent, so I think it would be fine to do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u34	For me, Mr Krol can simply table a motion. In view of the thrust of the motion and the debate that we are about to have, I would advise him as a colleague to do it in the second term. That would be more sophisticated and neat and it would probably also lead to a better motion. I'm not gonna stop Mr Krol, but I'm just gonna advise him to do it in the second term. In that case, the directors in trade union K will also be able to deal with this part in the first period. Seems a little more logical to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u35	I believe that Rule 66 (2) of our Rules of Procedure states that it is not customary for a motion to be tabled during the first period of a debate, unless the Chamber expressly authorises it. In this case, I do not think there is any reason to give that leave. This can just be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u36	I called for that, but it turns out to be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u37	I have doubts about this, too. Actually, I don't think you should lie down if a colleague wants something. I therefore agree with Mr Krol's collective appeal not to do so now. If he doesn't want to respond to that, I won't lie down, but I think we should take ourselves as a Chamber seriously. We want to debate. We invite the rulers here for a debate. I do not think it is chic to say that we already know what the outcome is and to move on to the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u38	I have also heard Mr Krol say that at least we can all go home. I think we all have to decide that for ourselves, but I do not want to lie down for that out of collegiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u39	I'm not going home, either. I think it's customary to file second-term motions. I find that more convenient myself, but if Mr Krol wishes to do so now, I will not stop him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u40	I'm going to make it easy for you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u41	As Mr van der Staaij has just said, Rule 66 (2) of the Rules of Procedure states that you may table a motion in the first term, provided that the Chamber agrees to do so. You want to help me, but I would like to mention the Rules of Procedure, otherwise we will have to have this kind of discussion every time, Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'll make it easy for you. The Rules of Procedure are not entirely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u43	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u44	I'm going to do it as colleagues suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u45	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u46	...and save the motion until the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you. The majority was of the same opinion. I call Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr. Chairman. For two years... I see Mr Van Nispen standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yeah, I see him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u50	I have a question for Mr Van Oosten right away. He's been in the Lower House for almost four years. Has he ever written letters to himself? In other words, how usual does he think that is and how does he feel about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u51	I would suggest that Mr van Oosten should begin his speech and answer this question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u52	Of course, I am afraid to contradict the President. I suggest I start with my contribution. There is undoubtedly an opportunity for Mr Van Nispen to ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u53	You may always ask a question, Mr Van Nispen. You know that, too. I also think, however, that we should give each other the opportunity to make our own contribution first. You will then be given all the space to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u54	I give Mr Van Oosten every opportunity to do so in such a way as to tell his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u55	It's just arrived.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u56	But this question is independent of any input. I'm already asking him if he's ever written letters to himself. I really do not know why no answer can be given, but I would be happy if you would ask me to do so and Mr van Oosten would like to tell us his story first. We'll find out in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u57	Please continue, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll take my contribution. There is no doubt that I will come across Mr Van Nispen again and perhaps some other colleagues. For two years, politics seems to be fairly dominated, at least within Security and Justice, by constantly stirring up the search for the missing receipt. Let me make it clear how my group views it: it was indeed a series of clumsy things. Once again, for the second time, the Oosting Committee has produced a very thorough report in which it has once again been shown that it has missed the direction in the search for the missing receipt. If an in-depth investigation had been carried out at the Ministry of Security and Justice from the outset, it could have been possible to avoid the subsequent disclosure of incorrect information to the Chamber. Like Mrs Van Tongeren, I, fortunately, sometimes come outside this square kilometer of the Binnenhof. This week, people asked me what I'm doing this week. I replied that I have a debate on the report of the Oosting Committee. Then they said: are you going to talk about the thing about the missing receipt again; please, when are you going to do what that ministry is meant to do, namely catching crooks? That's what I'm told. Then I'll explain that I agree with them. But at the same time it is very relevant to find out where it went wrong in that search for the receipt. Let there be no misunderstanding that it is crucial for a ministry that monitors our security, what the Ministry of Security and Justice does, that you can rely on good communication and on cooperation. The maximum effort can thus be made to make the Netherlands safer, to tackle jihadists, to track down cocaine smugglers, to condemn arms dealers, to lock up sex criminals. We just can't afford to let this be a mess. The Ministry must therefore also be tightly organized.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u59	I see that some Members want to interrupt, but first I look at Mr Van Nispen because he was the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u60	I already asked my question!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mr Van Oosten, would you like to address Mr Van Nispen's question first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mr Van Nispen asked me at the beginning of my speech whether I have ever sent a letter to myself. I don't think so. When it comes to my assessment of the editorial stroke, to put it this way, which the Member of Parliament did indeed put on that letter, I would say to the Minister after that time the Member of Parliament is now the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the borders have not been properly monitored. I'm very clumsy about that. It should not have done so; it should not have done so explicitly, but I would also say something else. No one in this house is sacred in that respect. We must also really prevent this from happening to me, at least for myself, that we are in some sort of cramp and that we should avoid contact with members of the cabinet because it is only here, in this Chamber, that this should take place. I'm telling you, my life isn't a reallife soap opera, where I'm being followed 24 hours a day by a camera or something like that. No, I have debates here, but if I were to have the contacts only during these debates, that would be a little short to bring about my ideals in politics. So I didn't do it that way; that's not how I see it, but I don't think we should cramp. As a Member of Parliament, you have to keep thinking very carefully: what are you doing and what are you doing? That's a lesson I'm taking out for myself. You have to know how to distinguish those roles very well. The role of the cabinet is different from that of a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u63	What a theatre and what an unclear answer! "I wouldn't think so" and "I don't think that's how I did it." I would like to know whether or not Mr Van Oosten has done so. Mr Van Oosten is playing down again here: 'no one is a saint', 'contacts always occur' and 'I'm not being followed by a camera all day'. Can Mr Van Oosten simply give a very clear judgment, without all the fuss surrounding it? After all, I am not talking about occasional contact over a political line. This is about rewriting a letter, leaving out amounts and changing sentences, up to and including the memory of the then District Attorney Fred Teeven. Can Mr Van Oosten make a very clear assessment of this, without all those stories surrounding it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u64	Yeah, that's what I'm saying: it just shouldn't have been that explicit. I am very clear about that, but I think it is fair to ourselves too....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But take a lesson from this, too. I will take a lesson from this: the Member of Parliament, Mr van Oosten, will change his mind ten times before he takes up a pen in that area. Of course I'm taking a lesson here, too. I assume you're doing just as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u65	I will go on at this point; I am actually facing another point here, but otherwise it will be very chaotic. My question to Mr Van Oosten is quite simple: does he think that former MP Van der Steur has gone too far and would he really not go that far? And has the VVD group discussed that it is simply not right to go so far as to regenerate letters as a ghostwriter with insider trading to influence the information that the Chamber gets or doesn't get?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u66	I told you it shouldn't have been so explicit about me. I think I can give an assurance that this gives little motivation to my colleagues to do so, if they wish to do so. I also think that this applies equally to other groups. I'm just gonna keep saying, guys, be careful. We sometimes have contact with each other outside this Chamber. That's part of our job, too. We're the national government together. We have dualism: we have a parliament and we have a cabinet, but we also have things to do with each other. So let us not pretend to be more holy than many might really be. At least I don't want to do that. I'm doing my job. That's what I do here. I'm transparent and open and I'll give you those answers, but I don't want to cramp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u67	"Guys, watch out," says Mr Van Oosten to his colleagues. Well, I can assure him that we are looking forward to transforming letters so far that the entire information that goes to the Chamber changes completely. We are looking forward to saying, on the basis of prior knowledge of crucial reports, in a crucial quest, that 'insufficient memories' should be put in a letter, in this case with Mr Teeven. We are looking forward to doing all kinds of far-reaching editorial work on letters. So we'll watch our backs. My question to Mr Van Oosten and to the VVD Group is whether this is absolutely unacceptable from now on in the VVD and whether this is simply not going to happen again. We are looking for a cultural change at the Ministry, but also at all involved VVD'ers. So I would like to hear a very clear answer from Mr Van Oosten: is it just finished with this strange way of filling in your membership?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u68	I already told you that, didn't I? It shouldn't have been that explicit. I'm very clear about that, aren't I? That's how I look at this. I say that the Minister, who also blames himself for this, is following. He wrote this in a letter and also indicated it in the previous debate. We pretend it's something new, but it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mr Van Oosten comes in with a lot of bombs and says: what a bullshit debate about a receipt. But the debate is no longer about a receipt. Today is actually about the moral compass of the VVD, which runs a ministry like a VVD party office. Mr Van Oosten now says: 'You must not take it all so seriously, you may not have to be too holy and you cannot really edit a letter.' I am really critically asking what the moral compass of the VVD is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u70	I keep saying it shouldn't have been like this. I'm very clear about that, aren't I? You say that I arrive with a lot of bombs and pretend that this is a non-debate and that that disappeared receipt and the whole process wouldn't matter. That's exactly what you're putting in my mouth. Then I'll tell you that I didn't say that. In fact, I would like to explain to you that I think it is so valuable that the Oosting Committee has chosen this very explicitly and very clearly twice. Why? Because this is about the ministry watching over our security. I'm gonna say one more time with bombaby, if you want us to, we can't afford it to be a mess in there. So if there was a clumsy situation there, and that was the search for that receipt, we need to make sure that that is resolved. That's what I stand for. That is what I want, so that the goals of the Ministry of Security and Justice can be brought to justice. Those are really the tracking and locking up of criminals. That's where I want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u71	I am glad that Mr Van Oosten is doing something about his leg. He had set the tone very clearly in the Chamber as if it were nonsense. He had made it very clear that we should do something else and that the ministry could be better busy finding crooks. Let us make it very clear here that there are limits and that we are looking for the moral compass of the VVD. The VVD led the way here as a VVD party office, to make sure that the letters to the Chamber were written differently than they were prepared at the official summit. If Mr Van Oosten finds this as reprehensible as I do, then perhaps we will be a step further in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u72	I have still not heard the answer to the question whether Mr Van Oosten has actively edited or called letters since he was in the Chamber to get something out of it, to change it or to write something else. Or did he never do that? So I would very much like an answer to that. Has Mr Van Oosten, during his term as a Member of Parliament, also helped to edit letters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u73	I have not written an editorial report on letters in the way that is now before me, but I also try to point out every time that it is not so, not only for me, but also for me, that I try to make it clear that my contacts with members of the cabinet are only taking place in this Chamber. Of course not. Because we're in touch. We're the national government together. Mrs. Helder said you'd get snooped once in a while. I don't think that's wrong at all. The VVD participates in the government, because we have certain ambitions and ideals for this country. Well, then, as a member of parliament, I'd like to know that the cabinet is headed that way, too. So when it comes to the Ministry of Security and Justice, I want to know that the Ministry is focusing on catching criminals. If you accuse me of having contact with the Minister of Security and Justice outside this Chamber, you do well, but it is my concern that you should arrest these criminals. That's what this is all about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u74	We'll get back to that later. However, we are talking about the first point. Mr Van Oosten is constantly slipping over it whether or not he has. His answer will then be: we all speak of a minister. So the clear question is once again: has Mr Van Oosten done so as a Member of Parliament during his term of office? Maybe he didn't do it with track changes, but if you call and you say that paragraph 3 and a certain piece have to come out, it has the same effect. Has Mr Van Oosten helped to change a letter so that the information that comes to the Chamber is adjusted by a Member of Parliament? I would first like an answer to that clear question; we will come to the catching of bad guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u75	I'll give you the same answer again. If I can make a contribution to the main objectives of the Ministry of Security and Justice, to apprehend those criminals, to tackle sex crimes, for example, to modernise the law on sex, to name but a few, of course, I am talking about that. I want that to happen. That's what I went into politics for, isn't it? Then I'm speaking on behalf of the VVD about security and justice, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u76	I don't think there's much self-reflection in this. It seems as if Mr Van Oosten says, as in such a speech balloon in the sideline of a letter: don't write too much with it, because that's bullshit. Surely there is a fundamental distinction between agreements between political groups and agreements held by the political groups here to which the cabinet must abide. There is an agreement between political groups here, and you look and read with it and you ask: is this about what it says? Is it a problem at a ministry which is entirely the responsibility of the minister? A letter on the latter comes to the Chamber, to which the Member of Parliament, Mr Van der Steur, must take a critical look and ask critical questions. The effect of Mr Van der Steur's track changes has been that he has put a patch on his mouth. He couldn't ask those critical questions because he'd already asked them. That's a fundamental difference, isn't it? Does Mr Van Oosten see that difference in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u77	That's what I'm saying, isn't it? I say to the Minister that, as far as I am concerned, he is right to blame himself. That's what I'd do. That's why I'm taking a lesson from that. That's what I'm doing for myself. I say that franc and I'm free; I'm honest about that. I have once again been pressed with the facts about how extremely important it is to distinguish between the different roles we have to play together in the administration of the country. The function of a Member of Parliament is really different from that of a Member of the Cabinet. Really, I'm fully aware of that. This is gonna explain that again. That does not mean, however, that you form the government of the country together, that at least, as far as I am concerned, you should try to make the country a little safer, as far as possible. I would fail myself, I would fail my own political ambitions and ideals if I would avoid contact with members of the cabinet. I know, and I've heard you say it doesn't work that way. We all have contact with members of the cabinet, even outside this room. That's all I'm trying to get attention for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr Van Oosten began well. Then a "but" came. After that "but" there was a racket: we have to catch bad guys, we have to ensure security, we have to live up to ambitions and so on. Most of the time, however, you can delete everything before a "but" and it's what follows after that "but." And that is the problem: because bad guys caught, safety and that whole riedel always stood first, there has been a bad view of state-law relations and of finding the truth. That's the problem. So this isn't just a thing. This is one thing, a state-law thing: the Chamber controls and the government rules. You've got to keep an eye on that. I hope that lesson has been learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u79	I've been thinking if I'd interrupt. I have written a few quotes from Mr Van Oosten. "No one gets to play a sacred game here," "prevent us from shooting into a cramp." I thought, well, he's about his own words. But still, I felt a little shot in the woke. Because he shouldn't be talking on my behalf. Our input is completely different. The reason why I stood here for a moment is that I wanted to say to the Acts what I said, but also that I did not say 'Mrs Helder already indicated: there is a sinning', what I heard Mr Van Oosten say. Several documents had shown that this is happening. That wasn't my conclusion. I've decided on my term with: probe is one, but souffling is something else. I didn't give a value judgment to that first one, but I gave it to that second one. I would have liked to have noticed that before the Acts. What Mr Van Oosten just said was not my words, and I do not agree with that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u80	This is how you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u81	Let me say that I am pleased that Mrs Helder has taken the opportunity to highlight this so clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u83	Let me make it quite clear once again that the VVD welcomes the fact that, on the basis of the findings of both reports from the Oosting Committee, the directors, namely the Minister and the Secretary of State, have worked hard to put their departments in order. Justice spokesmen know the path "VenJ Change," Security and Justice is changing. That is a fundamental part of that. What's that about? That the official summit functions as a single team, that you tolerate, accept or perhaps even organise, that you constantly have an eye for professional development, right and only to ensure that ultimately the energy and attention of that ministry, of all its employees, of the 100,000 people working in the security chain, can be focused on what is really at stake, such as tackling the undermining crime, the issue of international migration, on which many debates have been held in the Chamber, and, please, completing and perfecting the formation of the national police, so that we have a police force at our disposal that can make maximum efforts for security. And, of course, this is also a task for us if politicians are to ensure that the rule of law is guarded and protected, that there is good legislation and that those seeking justice can go to a judge with good quality of judgment. These are all efforts that I would like the Ministry to focus on. Then you must learn from the lessons you can draw from the work of the Oosting Committee, but you must also dare to go there slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u84	Once again: security for everything, but you cannot defend a rule of law if you do not uphold it yourself. You can't stand for justice if the truth is the victim. That's Oosting's lesson. And what is the response of the VVD Group? Again, safety for everything. Then we didn't learn anything, did we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u85	I find it pleasant to have a well-formed national police force, because sometimes things happen on the streets that people don't want, because sometimes there are victims, because even in my own city weapons are suddenly found in a normal home. Then I find it pleasurable that a national police force should be set up to deal with that. This goes hand in hand with the rule of law. Mr Segers also knows that we in the Chamber are having considerable discussions about the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the modernisation of bankruptcy law, even though they sometimes attract a little different attention from those serious crime cases. I can give you other examples, but there are some of them, and they need to be worked on. That is precisely why you need to ensure good direction and good communication in the Ministry. That is where we need to go, and that is why these leaders must be able to get to work and move forward with this process of change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u86	With all due respect, these are triads. These are safety belts and we know and hear them. We are now talking about the Oosting Committee and the lesson we have learned. Mr Van Oosten has just said that he sometimes comes out. When you talk about this issue outside and to citizens, who have to pay a fine if they drive too fast and who, if they break the law, suffer the consequences of it, how they look at this case, they answer that they have the impression that something is being covered up and muffled away and that this is a long-term thing that will never end. We can only restore the relationship and trust if the truth prevails and if the truth remains paramount and not security. Then there really must be other whims that we have just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u87	I am not going to take back any words in this respect, because, as far as I am concerned, security goes hand in hand with the strong rule of law that Mr Segers is also advocating and working for. However, I am not suggesting that I should not make any efforts to do so or that the VVD should not make any efforts to do so. It goes hand in hand and it has to be that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u88	I think that Mr Van Oosten and I agree that we need a well-functioning ministry to catch and lock down crooks. The Oosting Committee actually concludes that the Ministry is too stupid to even cover up. Does Mr Van Oosten agree with me that the direction of our VVD Prime Minister and our VVD executives on Security and Justice has been seriously inadequate and that they cannot therefore effectively catch and lock up criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u89	The Oosting Committee concludes that there was no cover-up, and I will simply translate it as an endless clumsy in the search for the receipt. I have already said to all the spokesmen, including Mrs Van Tongeren, that I think that lack of direction and that I think the lack of communication is wrong. And why do I think that's wrong? I think that is wrong in relation to the provision of information to the Chamber about that receipt, but I certainly think it is equally serious given that it is about the Ministry of Security and Justice, which is responsible for our security, but also about our rule of law. Then you must be able to rely on a good direction. That is why we must continue with the process of change that would ensure that those 100,000 people, including those in office, are given the opportunity to focus their full energy on this too. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u90	Is Mr Van Oosten now saying that six years of VVD policy on Security and Justice have failed? Or is he saying that this bullshit is really an incident and that there are also very effective criminals being tracked down and imprisoned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u91	A great deal has happened over the past six years, but my ambitions as MP for the VVD have not yet been completed. I want clarification rates to go up, I want the formation of national police to be completed, I want the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police to work more streamlined. Why? To catch those criminals, those bad guys. But what I would like to do is to enter into the debate with Mrs van Tongeren, in which we fight each other, so to speak, about how we are going to do that, how we are going to finance it and what choices we are going to make. I dare say that it is slowly but surely time for me to take the lessons we draw from the work of the Oosting Committee, which I am also very concerned about myself and to work on, precisely in order to achieve those other objectives. I want that so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u92	Mr Van Oosten has just said that we cannot afford to see it a mess in the Ministry of Security and Justice. We are very much in agreement on this. My question to Mr van Oosten is how it could have happened and who is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u93	Once again, I want to make no mistake about it. The search for the receipt was clumsy. I will say it again if Mr Van Nispen asks me to do so: mess around. That just didn't go well; wrong. It's been proven from-to-after. Who's responsible for that? In the end, the directors are responsible for this. This is how our democratic system works. We knew that too, because the Minister quit. I've read two solid reports. I am asked, 'What are we going to do, we are going to wallow in it, we are going to continue to do so?', Then I suggest you take lessons from that. Let us ensure that this cannot happen again and that the process of change can be started. I am not saying that because I find it so interesting to talk about business operations, but because I think it is extremely important that the objectives of the Ministry of Security and Justice really get the full energy back and we can start to debate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u94	I will put my question even more clearly. Mr Van Oosten may not have understood it correctly. We cannot afford it to be a mess in the Ministry of Security and Justice. That's not just about the mess around this issue. No, that's about the whole ministry. That is what this report has shown. The question is: who turned it into a superministry of security and justice in 2010? Which party has been supplying the directors since 2010? What party has appointed a member of the party as Secretary-General and under the leadership of which party has this culture crept into it? There is no direction, there is fear to raise matters and the truth is covered up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u95	The questions "what party has been responsible for the 100,000 people active in the safety chain for six years?" and "Which party has taken the initiative to form a national police force?" I can argue with that. What I like about this debate is that the debate is slowly but surely moving in the direction I want. This can ultimately lead to choices, on the establishment of our rule of law, on a maximum effort for security. That is what I want, and I hope that Mr Van Nispen will do the same. If Mr Van Nispen wants to be critical of choices made by directors of the VVD, that is fine. That is what we are going to have the debate on. However, if he asks me what I thought of the search for the receipt, I will say again that I found that clumsy. But please, let us learn from the lessons that have been drawn from it. We paid expensive tuition fees. Let's roll out those lessons. Let us do more than just look back and make sure that these lessons also serve a purpose. I would very much like that and, I hope, Mr Van Nispen too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr Van Oosten spoke at the beginning of his speech about a discussion he had on the situation with the receipt. In it he said that the VVD is so eager to catch bad guys and to lock up criminals; in it he spoke all the other words that we hear so endlessly. Did Mr Van Oosten also mention in that conversation that it was the fault of a long procession of VVD executives and that an endless parade of VVDs in recent years has led the ministry to take over for two years this bizarre search for a receipt, which meant that all these core tasks were no longer high on the agenda at all? Did Mr Van Oosten honestly tell you that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u97	I have just said, in reply to Mr Van Nispen's question, that it was a mess, and of course all of us know that responsibility for it is borne by those responsible for it. Mr Verhoeven can do whatever he wants with that answer. I'm not running away from that at all, but I'd like to take a step further. I also do not want to hide the fact that, fortunately, more has been done at that ministry than just a search for the receipt. Slowly but surely it is time to see what we are going to do with these lessons. That is more than just having debates with each other, as we are doing now, and more than just looking back. Perhaps Mr Verhoeven is not ready, but I dare say so. How are we going to take up these lessons in such a way that it will help us, for the sake of security, for the sake of the rule of law in this country and for the sake of catching criminals? Because, yes, I do. And then you need that direction that Oosting put his finger on so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr Van Oosten is making it very furious now. He actually keeps saying in his answer: you know, sand about it, we've had this, it's been messy, but we have to look ahead now, and we're doing that with the security and justice change program that the cabinet is now deploying, and then it's gonna be okay. The big problem with the way in which the cabinet has acted in recent years and the way in which Mr Van Oosten has been talking in the last half-hour is that every word that Mr Van Oosten says more, my confidence is falling in a good approach and a strong improvement in this VVD ministry, purely because there is no reflection, no self-criticism that really cuts down on what the VVD should say. Instead of coming up with all these cumbersome claims, she must simply say: we have failed policies over the last six years and we understand very well that the voters, the people of the Netherlands, have no confidence in them, and we are now going to do everything we can to bring about a complete change in them. But the VVD never says it that bluntly. She keeps saying, "A lot's happened." Why doesn't she just say, if she really wants to close that file, that we admit that we have had completely failed policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u99	That was a very long interruption, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u100	Yes, Mr President, and Mr Verhoeven's question goes a long way beyond today's subject, namely the process of seeking the receipt. I have talked about 'clumsy', 'blunder' and you name it all. You can fill it out yourself. What I do want is for you to learn from that because of the bigger story, which you are also calling attention to, Mr Verhoeven, namely security and the rule of law in this country. That's what I want to go for. We've taken steps in that, but I think it could be even better. I always think so, because otherwise I wouldn't have gone into politics, but we would have to work towards it slowly but surely. Indeed, we could have had a debate today on an issue that your boss has tried to put down here a number of times, namely the security agenda. I would have liked to go there slowly but surely. So it's very good that we've examined this, but now we'd like to draw the lessons to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u101	It will end in such a way that we ourselves are to blame for the fact that we are talking about this and not about the content of the policy. I don't want to talk about failed policies. Certainly not, because good things have happened too. But what is at issue here is that this Minister, as a Member of Parliament, has done things that we are now asking questions about. Then Mr Van Oosten can say that we have to learn lessons, but then he will also have to say that it is the same person who, although now in a different capacity, has to put those lessons into practice. On what basis can we and the citizens in the country base that confidence that this minister is going to do the job?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u102	I simply do not agree with the confusion of the role played by the Member of Parliament at the time. Isn't that what I'm telling you? That shouldn't have been so explicit. But he's here as a minister now. I am confident that this Minister, together with his Secretary of State, will be able to roll out that change path, but we must give him the opportunity to do so. I'd really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u103	I hear you say that it should not have been so explicit and it should not have been, but I do not hear of you on which we should have based that confidence. Please give us a concrete example. I won't ask for three or two, but one would be nice anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u104	A concrete example? I call it a change of course. Let's get to work on that. Let us ensure that this ministry functions as a unit for the purposes that Mrs Helder is always working for. But that's where the energy has to go slowly but surely. That also means that you should be able to rely on good direction and good communication in that ministry. I have already asked questions on other subjects and I was not impressed afterwards. So that's why I'm pulling so hard to make it work, that it gets better and better, because I don't accept "a mess." But I want to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u105	I notice we're repeating ourselves. Mrs. Van Tongeren, you've just been here. Do you have a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u106	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u107	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u108	The whole story of Mr Van Oosten is something of: we can judge for ourselves what integrity is, Mr Teeven could judge for himself whether he could make an appointment with Cees H., we can now judge as MPs whether we can edit letters and we can judge ourselves when and when you can talk to directors. Is that the idea of integrity and the role of MPs versus the government or is there a much sharper analysis of the VVD? If it's the first thing, I haven't gotten a degree of confidence back that we're clear now and that we've taken those lessons now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u109	Mrs Van Tongeren chooses a long introduction, in which she puts words in my mouth that I do not recognize. In this respect, I do not have the desire to answer this question differently than I have just done: it should not have been so. I'm taking the lesson from that that it shouldn't be like this again and that I don't want to do it like this again. That's also a lesson I'm projecting on myself, and I think everyone should.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u110	Yes, you have said that a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u111	That lesson is not clear to me at all. You can't edit it, but you can make a phone call? Drinking a wine is okay, but writing a bill isn't allowed? What exactly is the lesson Mr Van Oosten has learned as a Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u112	Mrs Van Tongeren is now going to fill that out. I think that is wise, because that also means that Mrs Van Tongeren is consciously thinking about how to deal with it. The only thing I am trying to point out to Mrs Van Tongeren is that it should not have been like this. The Minister also blames himself for that. I'll repeat that to him, because I also think it shouldn't have been. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, if that makes me repeat myself. As Members of Parliament, let us not cramp by pretending that there are no contacts outside this Chamber between members of the Cabinet and Members of Parliament. But let us please be very aware of the role that we have as Members of Parliament. I can't make it any more personal than that. That's the way I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u113	I suggest you continue your response to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u114	I have in fact already said what I wanted to say about the other interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u115	That's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mr. Chairman. We had hoped to close the book after Oosting I. After all, the aftertaste of the previous debate was already bitter enough. As a member of parliament, the minister had been sitting in the door with his fingers, and the Prime Minister was shining through his absence. It seemed to be happening without directing at the time. But, unfortunately! In the meantime, the information provided to the Chamber had alienated the support service, because copies don't just disappear, do they? That turned out to be true, because dutiful ICTs still managed to solve the mystery. It is hard for them to be wiped out by this Minister of Security and Justice. I agree with Mr Van Nispen. This calls for equestrian apology. Oosting II had the clean task of examining the solution of the riddle. Was it a riddle or a cover-up? The conclusion was that there was no cover-up, but a completely unorganised ministry. That is worrying, because we are talking here about the Ministry of Security and Justice: the guardian of the rule of law. That ministry should not be run as if it were a VVD party office. However, Oosting II revealed more. I'll give you five points. First of all, I come to the role of the Prime Minister. We get the impression from this report that his role was far greater than we had been told. For example, he would have interfered with the appointment of Van Brummen. He denies that now, but a co-worker wouldn't write that down for nothing, would he? Or is that official also not good for his job? I would like a response to that. The Prime Minister also appears to have interfered with the 26th version of the letter of 3 June. How could the Prime Minister only agree, I quote: 'to mention Fred and not send the annex if it has been agreed with the spokesmen that Fred and the annex remain out of order before, during and after the debate'? What kind of crazy is that? What is the point of forcing government inspectors to save the heads of government? That's gonna take an explanation. I come to the analysis from the Algemeen Dagblad of 19 December 2015 about what exactly happened on the afternoon when Mr Van der Steur dictated whole passages for the letter that had to be sent to the Chamber, because the receipt was still found. We discussed this at length in the previous debate and the Prime Minister said that he did not interfere. Is the next quoted passage from the newspaper completely made up? "Then the door swings open and MP Dijkhoff comes in with the smartphone still attached to his ear. Yes, I just hang up; he says to the surprised company. The Prime Minister said to me, "You have to go in now!" I say to him, "I can't do that! Mark says, "Why not?" I say, "I'm in the bathroom!" It breaks the tension for a moment." The Prime Minister was indeed informed and he also intervened. He even sent in the VVD campaign leader. Why don't you explain that? I come to the role of the Minister and then MP Van der Steur. We thought, "Oh, my God, that MP was stuck with his fingers between the door." He could have even dictated a letter to the Chamber. Now, however, it appears that the Minister had the people's representative editing much more often. Van der Steur didn't have his fingers in the door. No, he had become the doorman of this parliament and determined what messages would reach us. He said: "Don't say that the interviewed parties didn't have such memories to make substantiated statements. I'm just taking an example. I would like a reflection on the space given by the Minister to his inspector in writing a letter which has 20 versions. I would like to say the following about that letter. On 9 April Parliament asked for bank details. How can it be written the next day that nothing has been found, while Van Brummen's investigation has not yet begun? Is that the way this ministry conducts investigations, with 23 versions being written and it is said that there are no backups, while the research results have not yet come to light? I would like an explanation on this point. I would also like to say a few words about Pope Block. On March 11, 2015, two days after the resignation of Opstelten and Teeven, he receives an employee at his office who tells him what's going on. How come he doesn't tell the new ruler that later? Isn't that very curious? I'm rounding up. Today, I have zoomed in on the role and role of this minister, of inter-pope Blok and of the Prime Minister. Oosting II obliges us to do so. For too long, Parliament's supervisory task has been frustrated in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mr. Chairman. The case surrounding the deal with Cees H. nourishes the feeling that two sizes are measured. Small mistakes are dealt with hard; heavy boys get their pennies back. The ordinary employee is dismissed if he does not do his job; he may remain high on a heavy salary. In this way, we feed the idea that the government is not there for the citizens, but the citizen for the government. This is the worst result of this lingering grieving game. Today, for the umpteenth time, we are talking about the aftermath of the deal with criminal Cees H. from 2000. That deal was completely out of the picture in the report of the Oosting II Committee. We do not yet know what this deal looked like, but we know by now that much more reduced criminal money has been returned than has been claimed for a long time. As almost always, reality is many times more complex than the image, but the image is real for many people and that needs to be corrected. We can't do that anymore in this case. It must be done in all those thousands of cases dedicated to every day by all those thousands of officials. It's bothering them. The fact that everyone is equal before the law must be taken for granted. This case casts doubt on this and thereby undermines public confidence. I shall now turn to the Oosting Committee and its second report. The Oosting II Committee concludes that there is no cover-up, but that is hardly a relief given the situation. This report confirms the picture that the official summit at the Ministry of V and J has functioned particularly poorly in recent years. The fact that executive officials did their job well, despite the failure of the summit, deserves a compliment. We share the conclusions of the Oosting II Committee. There's no evidence of a cover-up. Moreover, a cover-up calls for tight organisation, and that is precisely what was lacking. The report is clear, shocking and above all a confirmation and coloring of what we already knew from Oosting I. The Chamber has already been informed of the process of change that has been initiated. What's going on with this trial? We understand that cultural change is not quick, but what is the urgency of it? How are the findings from Oosting II incorporated into the process? How will island culture be resolved in the shortest possible time? Is the organization now such that mutual diligence and bad relations can no longer lead to dysfunction of the entire official summit? If so, what does this show and how is the Chamber kept informed of progress? Although the committee itself does not want to take this political path, the report confirms once again, as far as I am concerned, that the ministry is too large in terms of quality and political direction and accountability. Also the day of the Minister and the Secretary of State has only 24 hours. Much will remain unseen before the political summit. A better balance between the government ministries and the security chain is desirable. The Labour Party considers the checks-and-balances of the rule of law to be more important than the efficiency of the market. Around the presentation of the Oosting II report were individual officials with cow letters and photos in the newspapers. This must have had a major impact, not only for the officials concerned, but for all officials. Two consequences are plausible. Everyone learns about this and is alert, and that is a desired effect. A second effect is certainly not desirable, but it is possible, and that is the effect that one will cover and create a culture of fear. How is the latter prevented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u118	I hear Mr Recourt talking about the Ministry of Security and Justice. This would be too big and therefore many things remain unseen by the Minister. But can't it also be that the cause is in the people who are on the buttons? I'm not talking about the minister, I'm talking about the top officials. I think that the more detailed report shows that certain people, who are now gone, do not really have the sense of urgency. That does not have everything to do with a large ministry, but more with the people themselves, who apparently did not want to know the seam of the stocking, to quote this minister for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u119	I can only agree with Mrs Helder. That is in fact the conclusion of Oosting II.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u120	From Mr Recourt's answer, I would point out that it can be not only the size of the ministry, but also the people who are turning the buttons there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u121	In all organizations it is ultimately the people who have to do it, whether that's the police officer in the street or the sg at the ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr Recourt has a rather broad story, but on page 84 of the Oosting II report his own role is named. I wonder if Mr Recourt would also like to indicate here what his precise involvement in letter 25 has been. Something has been written about it briefly, but I think it would be a good thing for him to say something about it to his colleagues. What exactly was Mr Recourt's involvement in that version of the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u123	Of course I do. You need to be clear about that. I was in the letter to the committee when the committee asked me to do so. I wrote at the time that I made oral comments on the main points. I've been trying to get back what those remarks were. I remember two of them. The first was the question of why there was nothing in it about the Secretary of State. I thought he was the district attorney at the time. If it is necessary to find out what the exact amount was, then he should at least be asked to do so. Secondly, I missed humility in the letter. The former minister said in the Chamber: "It's 1.8 million. These are the facts, these are the facts." And then there was a letter saying: maybe these aren't the facts. Then you might as well show a little bit of melancholy, let's stick to that one word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u124	Does Mr Recourt also say that he has not made literal suggestions or has made far-reaching, far-reaching comments that have made the Chamber's information worse? Didn't he also make it possible to make the search for the receipt more difficult? Has he not done all that and has it remained on the main lines with oral suggestions? Has he not looked in detail for ways of worsening the information to the rest of the Chamber? Is that what he's saying about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u125	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u126	In an interruption to Mr Van Oosten, I indicated that I can imagine that you would be sympathetic or watching when a compromise is written that must be supported by the political groups in the Chamber. However, that was not the case in any way in this case. The responsibility lies entirely with the Ministry and yet Mr Recourt looks and reads with it and makes comments to Mr Recourt. Does he regret that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u127	I don't regret that. Of course, in the run-up to this debate, I began to think again about where the border lies. You need to find a line with informed and aligned with the coalition partner and the cabinet. I think it is right that you should be informed, including those matters that are high on the political agenda. However, I do not want to be responsible in any way for a letter from the Minister and I do not want to be responsible for it either. Then you're over that line, but I don't think I crossed that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u128	Once again, it is not about a compromise that has been reached after extensive discussions. It is about an issue for which the responsibility lies entirely with the Ministry. If 76 or 77 Chamber seats have been converted here and have said 'that's how the letter can be removed', then surely Parliament is silently dead? I guess we're done talking, huh? Then the majority, however critical it may be, can surely no longer say that the letter has to be changed? No, it cannot be, because that letter has already been approved and read by the spokesmen of the two government groups, who have a majority in the Chamber on their side. Then the parliament is mouth-dead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u129	It is therefore not the case that letters are approved. I do not approve or reject in any way. My comments do not need to be honoured either; that is up to the Minister. I am pleased to be informed in advance, because it is ultimately my responsibility to make the cabinet a success. In a debate, whether it is a debate on a legislative proposal or something else important, I do not want to be attacked by a cabinet position. If I'm informed like that, I'll give you something back. I say, "Hey, why isn't the Secretary of State in it?" Whether or not the Secretary of State is then mentioned in the letter is up to the Minister. It's his letter and I feel the room to be just critical of that letter in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr Recourt's reply does not entirely reassure me. The letter of 3 June 2014 is really about truth finding. What exactly happened? Did the Minister properly inform the Chamber? If you get such a letter in advance and you read it and make your comments and the minister takes over part of it, then the space is less then ask the most critical questions that are needed to arrive at truth finding. At least, I do not think Mr Recourt can deny that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u131	When I say 'the role of the Secretary of State must be in it' and that role comes into play, Mr Van Nispen no longer sees me on the interruptive microphone. He's absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u132	Then I can see the risk I've already mentioned. In fact, we should be looking for the truth with the whole Chamber, because something did not go well in that hasty debate in March 2014. We can ask critical questions about it with the whole Chamber, but Mr Recourt has actually, by not raising certain points, been more or less silenced. I cannot call it anything else, which is why we are now in this situation: for the fourth time a debate. As a Chamber, we have not all asked those critical questions anymore, because Mr Recourt has actually already accepted the letter, with the exception of the one point he has made. That is why once again the question: how does he look back on this? Would he do this again? Is he still doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u133	As I said before, I didn't accept the letter, because I didn't agree to it. Would I do it again? I would like to continue to be informed of all the important issues at stake in the area of security and justice. I see that as my task, especially since there is no PvdA executive on board yet. I need to know about it. So the answer is yes. Am I aware of the border, more aware than I was then? That, too. But I insist that I did not cross that critical line of responsibility for the letter at the time either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u134	We are getting a little further, because Mr Recourt quite honestly says that we actually have first-rate and second-rate MPs. First-rate MPs can already deposit the points they wish to make with the Ministry and be supplemented by letters sent with the signature of the Minister but which may already contain those points. Second-rate MPs, the rest, can only react in the debate. Does Mr Recourt recognize this image? Doesn't he agree with me that we shouldn't really want this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u135	I would not give it that qualification, but of course there is a difference between coalition and opposition, but also between the various opposition parties. There have been enough debates in which the coalition itself did not come out; think back to the debate on the manure law. That led to long negotiations and delays here in the Chamber. That's not nice, but it's how a coalition works. Dualism is not so pure that the coalition in the Lower House has in no way consulted the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u136	That's kind of the same line of defense as Van Oosten's. Of course we're in contact with the government. I am also in contact with a single minister from time to time. But here's what's important. Take my neighbors. They would like to see the debate here in the Chamber. They think "that Mr Recourt says nothing at all" because they do not know that Mr Recourt has already lost all his points because he has called the political assistant or because he has been able to make suggestions, so he has no more questions. Does Mr Recourt not actually agree with me that we should have the public and transparent political debate here, in this Chamber, as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u137	Yes. And again, I keep saying that I feel free to respond critically to any letter from the cabinet. I say that this is more in the area of legislation than in the area of accountability, and I have to say that Mr Segers is absolutely right. It has also been exchanged in the previous debate that I, as a coalition party, say in advance in legislation: pay attention, these are the wishes of the Labour Party. If the cabinet is to submit a law on my behalf, I would like these wishes to be taken into account. So in that sense I have an influence in advance, because when that point comes in, the cabinet no longer sees me here and I do not have to table an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u138	Mr Segers, you have just had your turn on this point. Did you forget something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u139	"Forgotten" is a heavy word in this context, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u140	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u141	I haven't forgotten anything, but I do have an important extra question. So two groups gave feedback on the letter. Did Mr Recourt know the feedback of his colleague Van der Steur? Did he read it then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u142	I don't think so, but maybe I had it in a CC. I don't know. I don't think so, for the next reason. From what I read back now, it appears that the current Minister of V and J, who was then a Member of Parliament, found something different from me, namely in terms of melancholy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u143	Then the question is whether the feedback on the original letter was given, or on the version of Van der Steur. What version has Mr Recourt provided feedback on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u144	On version 25, so just on what I got from the political assistant. Here, this is the concept. I read that and made those comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u145	The same applies to you, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u146	I would like to touch on this point, Mr President. I must say that I have some difficulty here and there with the way Mr Recourt deals with the difference between two Members of Parliament. However, I think this point is relevant. Did Mr Recourt get to see the letter containing Van der Steur's comments? Or did he get a letter that didn't show that someone else had been working on that letter? We now know that Mr Van der Steur has been working on version 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u147	The latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u148	So Mr Recourt received a letter without any comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u149	I just got draft letter 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u150	Okay. So Mr Recourt did not know at that time what MP Van der Steur had literally written down in those various passages in the letter, and what suggestions had he made, other than that Mr Recourt might have had oral contact with MP Van der Steur? So Mr Recourt did not accept the letter that Mr Van der Steur modified?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u151	I didn't agree to anything anyway. I've commented on the draft letter. It is clear that we were both critical of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u152	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u153	I had reached the last point. That has been dealt with in part, as far as my role is concerned. I have a few comments to make on the role of MP Van der Steur in draft letter version 25. I have already said that I will repeat this once again, for the sake of clarity, that at least I will be informed in advance in the event of important events at V and J. I don't think that's crazy either. I do not think it is surprising that comments are made. In doing so, you must never assume the responsibility of the Minister; that is where the border lies. It's still the Minister's letter. In the debate on 16 December, Minister Van der Steur said about his time as a Member of Parliament that he blamed himself for not having drawn that line before. I assume that this also applies in full to draft version 25. At least that's how I've read the answers, although it's a little vague because of the word "maybe." If that is true for that version, I agree with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u154	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with a quote from a column devoted to this ongoing debate on the ticketing affair. The column was written by a theologian, Mr Van de Beek, and was published some time ago in the Nederlands Dagblad. Here's what's in it. We're in the umpteenth round of the ticketing affair. Whether it's a cover-up or a mess, it indicates you can't trust politics. It's rustled and arranged, and you're not gonna get a hold of it. Politicians are either unreliable or incompetent. That's the image that's rising. In the past we didn't know it all, but with the current information and publicity we know everything and every mistake comes to light. And where something isn't quite clear, the mistrust is burning up. Indeed, this sketch shows how openness can feed mistrust and new questions. However, let me start positively: everything comes out nowadays; that's how I read the column. That is actually good news, because it also has a certain preventive effect. As a result, efforts will be made from the outset to proceed as well as possible and as clearly as possible. A second point I would also like to draw from the report by the Oosting Committee on which we are dealing today. A powerful argument against all conspiracy theories is the observation that it is still quite a job to create a real cover-up. In order to do that, a lot of administrative capacity is needed. This also reinforces the need for the work to be done as well as possible and thus to be brought out as far as possible. Following these positive comments, I would like to come to the bad news that is reappearing in the report of the Oosting Committee. All appreciation for the thorough work. The search for one receipt led to two thick books. In fact, the second part is a powerful confirmation of what is already in the first part. It is not for nothing that there will be all kinds of new recommendations. These are new facts and new illustrations of two main points, which are again emerging: what about the direction and culture within the department and what about the healthy dualism that has gone wrong? The conclusions are sharp. There is an obvious lack of direction in a politically very sensitive matter, of choice, lack of unity of action, lack of political sensitivity, poor relations within the administration and too much "everyone for themselves" mentality. We have the impression that this is going to hit the nail on the head and that, once again, the Oosting Commission has put it firmly that the Ministry should not be island-rich, but that there should be good connections and good communication between them, because a kingdom divided within itself is not going to last. I would add immediately that the conclusions are serious. Therefore, they have not been without consequences. In the end, no less than two rulers have resigned. We have previously had a serious and in-depth debate which has led to a solid motion. That is why, quite frankly, I do not so much feel the need to repeat all this and to find out new details. As far as I'm concerned, it's okay to stay with those two books from Oosting and it doesn't have to be a trilogy. It is now important to look ahead and say that lessons had to be learned and did this Minister and this Prime Minister work on this in order to make real improvements? I don't think you're solving a cultural problem and the lack of direction and cooperation within the administration, by taking apart the ministry. That's another debate. I do not believe that the Oosting Committee said, on request, that mistakes such as those raised here could occur in a small ministry in the same way. That is why I would like to see it separately from each other. However, the question is clearly what progress is being made in solving these cultural problems and ensuring a better direction. There too, I will make a point very quickly, because when it comes to the measures relating to the official summit and so on, I do not want to know exactly what Members of Parliament want to know at all. That really is a ministerial responsibility. You always hear us very strongly here in the Chamber when something is in danger of going wrong or going wrong. Nevertheless, I do have the question of the state of play in the measures already envisaged in the previous debate. In addition to that, Mr Recourt rightly made a point. I would very much like to prevent civil servants from covering themselves up and becoming so careful because it may all come out, that ultimately we could make that culture of mistakes and abuse openness. That is something the SGP certainly does not want on its conscience. Finally, the issue of healthy dualism. The VVD said, to put it in my familiar Bible language, in fact, whoever is without sin threw the first stone. Part of the truth is that in the relations between Chamber and Government, to any party, it sometimes sins against pure dualism. On the other hand, the Bible story about Jesus and the adulterous woman ends with: go and sin no longer. It is also good to raise awareness of standards and to say: wait a minute, there are limits, co-regulation is something other than a controlling role. If this is really about how it should be told to the Chamber, then Members of Parliament should be extremely careful. An important measure is whether as a Member of Parliament you are involved in a letter or making so many comments that you are actually being silenced. That has rightly been said. If it is difficult to judge more honestly and objectively about a letter sent to the Chamber, then you have crossed a border. I'll close, but I still want to say that one sentence that comes from Professor Van de Beek's beautiful column. I started my speech with that column. He wondered whether, under all the noise about unreliable politics, in the end, there is not an inhuman ideal of the complete politician who is above the human being. So be careful, too. You must indeed identify mistakes and learn from them, but let us realize that ultimately it will all remain human work, including in politics and governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mr. Chairman. We said it from the beginning: the aftermath of the Bitch Deal was one big cover-up. Senior officials cheated and the Chamber was lied to in a heartfelt manner. The truth had to be kept secret at all costs. Even after the second report of the Oosting Committee, crucial questions remain unanswered. Main players struggled with acute amnesia, which was and is inexplicable. It is not for nothing that my group advocated a parliamentary inquiry, but most of the parties did not support us in this. That's a missed opportunity. Two VVD executives and a President of the Chamber have already stumbled upon this dossier. The role of Ard van der Steur turned out to be much bigger than expected. As a member of parliament, he rewrote the cabinet letter and crossed out crucial information. He thought it was too much of a good thing to do everything in order to bring out the truth about the receipt. All that is unworthy of a Member of Parliament. And as a minister, Van der Steur did just as badly. In this Chamber, for example, he shamedly blamed his ICTs. How can this minister, after all his blunders and excuses, be credible enough to bring about renewal in the department? The position of Prime Minister Rutte also remains very unclear. What role did he play in removing that independent inquiry from the General Court? His interference is really written in black and white, namely in an e-mail. What's wrong? I would like an answer to this question. The worst thing about this huge gang is perhaps that the lying official summit has not been fired but that it has been rewarded. It has been rewarded with nice new jobs, thanks to the VVD. There is no Dutchman who understands this. Administrative chaos and terrifying amateurism are the result of six years of VVD on Security and Justice. This is certainly a dangerous development in times of terror threat. It is therefore time for these ruins to be cleaned up as soon as possible. The Netherlands deserves better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u156	We have come to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a half-hour suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u157	Madam President. The idea is that Mr Van der Steur will immediately address the situation at the Ministry and the steps that have been taken since he took office and after the debate in December on internal working methods and cultural change. Secondly, he will address his involvement in the letter of 3 June. Thirdly, he will talk about Shared Service Center-ICT. Fourthly, he will comment on the conclusions of the Oosting Committee. I shall make a few introductory remarks myself. Then I'll go into the choice for researcher Van Brummen. Then I come to talk about my involvement or that of General Affairs, both in the letter of 3 June. Furthermore, I will answer a few separate questions. My first introductory remark is that it is also the only one that I agree with everyone who has thanked Oosting for the good work that has been done here today. I think the Oosting Committee has done a good job once again. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that it would be nice if he could now devote his talents to other major topics. That is why this debate is important. I can say the following about my role in choosing the investigator. I also mentioned this in the report I sent to the Chamber in December last year. It says that I report to the committee that I have no memories that I know anything about it and that it is unknown to me. I also said that I liked the choice for Van Brummen because I thought it was important for a thorough investigation to be carried out. Next, the e-mail appears in the Oosting II report. As a result, as stated in the written set, I once again asked Ivo Opstelten to find out exactly how that happened and what he knows about it. The answer is also contained in the written reply: he has left me with his intention to have an inquiry carried out by Mr Van Brummen. It is, of course, also about the role of General Affairs. I have therefore examined this matter with the former Advisor-in-Office of the Council, and I have not done so myself, but it is official for me, and it has made it clear that he too has not been involved in the choice for the researcher. He first learned the name of Mr Vendrik and later heard that the choice had been made on Mr Van Brummen. There has been no contact with me about that. That's fine, by the way, because advisors hear a lot all day long. Only then will I be informed that if the assessment is made that something is politically very urgent. At that time, in the context of April 2014 now we are of course looking at it differently. The choice for the investigator was not an urgent matter. I totally get that. In summary. I've been informed it was Van Brummen. The hearing officer first heard Vendrik and then Van Brummen. There is no involvement in decision-making. Then I come to the phrase that has been quoted. I interpret the sentence in such a way that I am going to interpret it as meaning that there is no objection by General Affairs or by me to the choice for the researcher. I get that phrase too. I think that's how you should interpret it. Of course, it's hard for me to interpret that phrase back, but I think that's how you should read it. This is about the choice for the researcher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u158	I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It says quite clearly: "This after good consultation with AZ/MP and (...)." Someone has not written "in consultation with" or "accepted by" but "in consultation with." Someone doesn't just do that, does they?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u159	Yeah, but we're gonna interpret that phrase now. I interpret the sentence in this way, which is why I think it makes sense. There is an enormous amount of communication, coordinated and so on. In this case, it was a matter of informing. At least we didn't object. I didn't object to Van Brummen when Opstelten told me that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u160	The Prime Minister is playing it off as if it were nothing: an investigation was just being done, someone was being elected and whatever. This is about something that the Chamber has been working on for a long time. Then there will be an investigation and an employee of the sg, not the least: "after good consultation with AZ/MP." The Prime Minister then says: yes, such a phrase, I interpret it in this way. I find that unclear. I want to know why the Prime Minister thinks it says "after proper consultation."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u161	I just told you. I didn't remember that Ivo Opstelten had told me that it was Van Brummen. Every Tuesday and Friday we have Under-Council and Council of Ministers. There three, four, five rulers come at me every time with many announcements. That is where I make the assessment of whether something is politically sensitive or something complicated. I didn't think that was the choice for an investigator. I said earlier that the whole issue of the receipt had to be thoroughly investigated and that we had to know exactly what was going on. I have no memory of it, but Opstelten told me in the margins that he told me it was Van Brummen. Why would I have gotten into that at the time? It wasn't a theme at the time that Van Brummen wouldn't be good, was it? We later established, on the basis of the Oosting I report, that is of course a lot of knowledge afterward that you can see what is necessary on Van Brummen's research. Yeah, once, but that wasn't a big topic for me at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u162	I can only conclude that the Prime Minister says that this employee lied when he wrote: "This after proper consultation with AZ/MP." I can't make any other conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u163	I really leave that on Mrs Van Toorenburg's behalf. Because I'm just saying that I understand that sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u164	The Prime Minister adds a number of new details, such as the talks he had with former Minister Opstelten. In this matter we have not too little detail, but rather too much. If we zoom out instead of zooming in and look back for three years, we see that there are two rulers who have left, that there have been three investigations, that there is an unsatisfactory feeling that the lower stone is still not above and that people have amnesia. Does the Prime Minister say looking back: I have indeed been the primus inter pairs and I have indeed taken on the role of director? Or does he say, "I should have done that more?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u165	In choosing the investigator, I have no criticism of myself. I did criticize myself in the debate in December. I've learned three lessons. One of them gets to my involvement when that case eventually got bigger and bigger. Then you don't talk about April 2014, but much more about June and beyond. That is what I reflected in the debate in December. I said I should have been there more on the ball. It is now very specific about the researcher's choice. Again: I don't even remember Opstelten telling me it was Van Brummen. At that time, only one thing was important to me, namely that there should be a proper investigation. The minister was responsible for proposing an investigator. He had Van Brummen in mind before that. He told me now that he also let me know it was going to be Van Brummen. Why would I have gotten into that at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u166	Because the independence of the investigation was at stake. Because it is quite a difference whether you take Mr Vendrik or Mr Van Brummen. We now know that this choice has been very crucial, because it became a flawed investigation: it was limited in duration and the researcher was not allowed to speak with Mr Teeven. So crucial decisions have been taken in which the Prime Minister was hardly or not at all involved. Isn't that, with retroactive effect, wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u167	Of course, I reflected on that in December and I'm not doing anything about it. We are now talking very specifically about one topic, namely what happened in April 2014 when we proposed to the researcher. But in general terms, of course, I said in December that I should have been more on the ball. Yeah, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u168	There is also a sentence on page 82: "As you can see, passage about any external key by ARK has now been deleted.'. The following is added: "This after proper consultation with AZ/MP." "Deleted" means that it was there and that in good consultation with AZ it was decided to remove it. That's literally what the Oosting II report says. The Prime Minister then says: I understand that phrase, but I do not want to interpret it too much. If he can understand that phrase, doesn't that mean he's influenced it? Isn't that the only conclusion on page 82?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u169	First of all, I didn't even remember Van Brummen. Again: Ivo Opstelten told me that he had informed me about this. So I knew it was Van Brummen. The hearing officer knew that Vendrik had been asked first and later Van Brummen. So that's what we knew. We weren't involved in that choice. I interpret that phrase as: we did not object to it. So I don't think it's that crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u170	The Prime Minister is always very precise in his terms. Of the people I met, at least in the Lower House, he is one of the sharpest in terms of word usage. Now he pretends that phrase doesn't need to be read exactly. It says, "After proper consultation." After consultation, delete something here means that General Affairs, which has exercised influence by the Prime Minister, has sent to the choice for an investigator who would be less likely to find the receipt. That's what it looks like in here. If the Prime Minister says that that is not true, then he also says very clearly: there will never be any newscast, so not on another Newscast, and not in a parliamentary survey, that I have been pulling strings, that I have been steering the choice for Van Brummen. Does the Prime Minister say that so clearly now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u171	I don't even remember Van Brummen. If I had known that there was a tension between asking Van Brummen and asking Vendrik, I would probably have remembered that. Then there was a political balance to be made. Setting up has told me two things. He said: I mentioned you then Van Brummen and in that conversation the name Vendrik did not fall. I have no memory of that either. That's really how I see it. I understand that phrase too, because we did not object to it either, so I say again. I didn't object to Opstelten. The hearing officer, the now former Counsellor, has already had another job for a while now, and did not raise any objections. There was no reason for that either. Why would he do that? I understand that very well. At that time, the choice for a particular researcher was not a major issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u172	This is crazy. A number of things are also mixed up now. That sentence is in the report as it says in the report: "As you can see, passage about any external key by ARK has now been deleted. This after proper consultation with AZ/MP and VZ. CPGs." Now the Prime Minister says: I am not going to interpret that now, but I can imagine how that went. He says: we didn't object and I don't remember Van Brummen's name either. However, it appears from the discussion report with the Prime Minister that he very much liked the choice for the investigator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u173	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u174	But just now, the Prime Minister said he couldn't remember that name.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u175	Not at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u176	Not at the time, but later you liked it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u177	Later we formally established that Van Brummen was going to do the research. I have no memory that Ivo Opstelten has updated me on that. Later I heard Van Brummen was gonna do it. I always liked that very much, because I had no reason to believe that he wouldn't do a proper investigation. Later that is, of course, the point with an investigation like that of Oosting..........................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u178	I find it quite striking that every journalist who asked or tweeted something about this passage on page 82 at the press conference of the Oosting Committee immediately received a call from the director of the National Information Service to report that this journalist had all misunderstood it and that there was no tension whatsoever anyone could see between Oosting I and Oosting II at precisely this point: the choice for the researcher and the involvement of the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister explain why it was so important, so precarious to send the National Information Service to all those journalists?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u179	That is the normal work of the National Information Service. If an image is created that we do not recognize ourselves in, then reference is made in this case to the Oosting I research, in which it has been established how it has gone with the choice for the researcher. Mr Oosting himself also refers to this, including in the recent discussion with the Chamber at the hearing and in the broadcast of Nieuwsuur.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u180	I'm a little stuck on this, too, I can tell our Prime Minister. Is "after good consultation" sometimes that you have consulted each other, weighing the pros and cons and that you then decide something or is it sometimes "well, we haven't objected"? What is "after good consultation" according to this Prime Minister? Or does that change depending on the context?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u181	That said on the internal battle is not, of course, a legal text. There are daily incredibly many conversations, even within my department. Four to five decisions are taken each day, messages are sent to one another. I get that phrase, yeah. We also did not object to that investigator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u182	Those were words from our Prime Minister but not an answer. I asked whether 'after good consultation' sometimes means 'we have not objected' and at other times 'we have weighed the pros and cons; we have discussed this with each other and after that good consultation we have made a decision'. Does the Prime Minister wish to give an answer or is that too complicated and is this one of the things the Prime Minister might have some amnesia on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u183	The amnesia I have about the fact that Opstelten told me "it will be Van Brummen" around the time that that decision was finally taken. I didn't remember. I asked him that in response to the sentence, I just outlined to you. Later, of course, I have the memory that Van Brummen would be and that is what I said to Oosting. It's in the interview report. I liked that because I was very much in favour of an in-depth investigation. Once again, of course, research has been carried out on this subject and the quality of that research has been mentioned. We're talking about the choice for that investigator here. I have to say that General Affairs was told which investigator it was going to be. Again, I understand that phrase against that background. I can't make much of it anymore. I can give a linguistic exegesis on 'coordinate' or 'in consultation and after consultation', but we are not giving linguistic exegeses here. I don't think it's a crazy point, because of course messages are being sent very quickly in departments and it is true that there was no objection to Van Brummen. The hearing officer had also raised no objection to Vendrik. From that point of view, I can see how that phrase was passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u184	One final question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u185	A brief point of order in between. The Prime Minister says he is going to do two things today after his general introductory remarks, namely to discuss his involvement with the investigator and his involvement in the letter. That's two crucial things. This research is about the role of the Prime Minister in choosing a researcher who could not then manage to find the receipt. Yeah, that's how it happened. So I think the Prime Minister should really give an answer and not pretend it's a sentence that's just in an investigation report and that so many phrases are exchanged at the ministry. This is the sentence in the Oosting II study report. That sentence should be taken seriously,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u186	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u187	... because that is the sentence on which we, as a Chamber, must base ourselves after this investigation. So I don't think we should do a lap fast, fast, fast and then get ready to move on to the next song.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u188	I'm not gonna do that, am I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u189	Well, I think it's a hell of a lot like it, and I think this doesn't do justice to the investigation. So I would like the Prime Minister to make it clear whether or not he has been involved in the choice for Van Brummen. I want that question answered through my point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u190	This wasn't a point of order, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u191	A combination point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u192	Again, I checked with Opstelten. He told me. I do, of course, remember when this became formal, where exactly that was decided. He told me in April it was going to be Van Brummen. The consultant was first told "it will be Vendrik" and later heard "it will be Van Brummen." In the context of that time when an investigation had to be carried out and the hearing officer was told that it was not one investigator but the other, the hearing officer, rightly so, did not see any reason to inform me. As we speak here I assume that advisors will also be updated on all kinds of matters that play in departments. I do not always hear exactly what is going on when there are no direct questions of direction or political sensitivity behind it. In the meantime, this is politically sensitive, because we know from Oosting's research that there is a need to deal with Van Brummen's research, but that was of course quite different at the stage in which this researcher was approached. If there had been a discussion that I was aware of about whether it should be Vendrik or Van Brummen, I would of course have remembered that, because that is apparently a sensitive issue that is debated. Ivo Opstelten told me two things, because I asked him this, of course, as a result of that sentence. I said, "Do you remember what happened, because I don't have any memories other than that at any time the decision was made that Van Brummen became it." However, he said that there was something else and that he had informed me and margin of a meeting that it was Van Brummen. Okay, I said, at least that's something I didn't remember. It happens all the time. Yesterday we also had some under-hand advice, and then there are always three or four ministers who come up to me and talk to me on all kinds of points, and then, of course, I'm going to be very quick to consider whether it's politically sensitive, whether I should follow up on it or whether we can let it go that way. In most cases it's a matter of "yes, that's wise, that's what you have to do," and if it's politically sensitive, there'll be a follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u193	The Prime Minister can talk for a very long time about the way in which information is exchanged within his department and between different departments, but that is not the point. It is a simple question, which can be answered separately from that sentence and regardless of the method of operation within the Ministry. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it would be very bad if he had interfered in the choice of the investigator who would lead to defective research by Van Brummen? I am concerned that he responds to this in the Chamber in this debate, after two years, in which all sorts of things came up again and again, which the cabinet also said did not happen. That turned out to be different all the time, so it's not surprising that the Chamber is now wondering what's going on. So my question to the Prime Minister is very simple. Has he deliberately influenced Mr Van Brummen's choice as a researcher of the receipt? Did he or didn't he? I don't want to hear the story about that sentence over and over again. I just want the Prime Minister here to be honest about whether it was AZ or the mp or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u194	I didn't even remember or at that point played that Vendrik would be an option. Moreover, I would not have found it a problem at all if I had interfered if I had been asked to do so. So I have no memory of whether the Vendrik option was playing at the time. Set-ups confirmed that, too. He said, "I told you it was Van Brummen." We didn't talk about Vendrik. The hearing officer said on request that he knew it would be Vendrik first and later Van Brummen. That was in a communicative sense, not in the sense of consulting. So that's the fact complex. We could try to get that all back, but if I had known there was an option-Vendrik, I would have remembered that, I suppose. The chance of remembering politically sensitive matters after two years is, of course, greater than a moment when it has been said that an investigator has been found, and I said that was fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u195	There have been several newscasts two years ago, and there have been several debates. That just kept messing around, and that eventually led to research. The official advice was to ask Vendrik for that independent investigation. That advice will be overruled and it will be Van Brummen. This is aligned, in any way and in any way, with General Affairs. After all the affairs and the resignation of the rulers, the investigation of the Oosting I Committee, which we hoped would remain, comes and the Prime Minister will be questioned. He is asked if he knew if he was involved, and then the answer is that General Affairs was not involved. That's not an honest answer, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u196	I knew at all that it turns out now, I knew even then that Van Brummen had not been asked. Setting up didn't tell me he made a choice between two. He said it was Van Brummen. So I knew it was going to be him and the counselor initially knew it was going to be Vendrik, and heard later that it had become Van Brummen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u197	So General Affairs was involved in it, which has now been discussed with extremes, but the answer to Oosting in September was that General Affairs was not involved. It could have stayed with the Oosting I Committee, but now new facts are emerging. That is the nasty thing about this issue, that new facts come up every time, and that it turns out to be a little bit different, even when it comes to the involvement of General Affairs. Shouldn't the Prime Minister care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u198	Here's what I'm gonna do. Oosting himself also says that it is clear from the questions put by the Chambers that he has no reason to draw any other conclusions about the responsibility for the choice for Van Brummen. That is what Oosting himself says, also on the basis of that e-mail, and I leave that to him. I'm trying to reconstruct what I knew myself. That makes sense, because I saw that, too, and I asked Ivo Opstelten what that was like. He told me what I just shared with the room. The counselor knew about Vendrik and heard it was Van Brummen. My conclusion is therefore that we were informed but not part of the decision-making process. So I'm just looking for the continuity that Mr Segers is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u199	The issue is that now the Oosting II Committee points out that there has indeed been consultation between General Affairs and Security and Justice on the choice of who will conduct that investigation. That is a crucial decision, and it has been discussed. The Prime Minister's answer to the question of whether General Affairs was involved in September 2015 was: no, it was not involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u200	Not in the sense of decision-making, but in the sense of informed; that is true. If you want to cut it so precisely, Mr Segers is right. But with the word "involved" you think of a choice: what do you think? I have no memory of that. I've just reconstructed how the intel went.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u201	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u202	The next issue is the letter of 3 June. I said I didn't know the e-mails. Those are general affairs e-mails. Of course, I take full responsibility for it. I can also agree with those e-mails, because there are sensible things in them. It actually says three things when you pack them together. Firstly, make sure that the spokesmen are not surprised. Secondly, keep Fred out of the debate. I will explain in a moment what I meant by that. Thirdly, make the report public. I think the questions were mostly about keeping Fred out of it. I have always taken that as my position. When there were questions in the debate on 16 December on another issue, I always argued that. This has to do with the fact that in the role of former member of the Public Prosecutor's Office he has a legal obligation of confidentiality, while as State Secretary he is in a state-law relationship with both the Minister and the Chamber. There was therefore a tension between different responsibilities that an inconsistency could entail. That would happen if he were forced to answer questions about it in the debate, in particular about the fact complex with regard to a settlement, to the extent that the officer Fred Teeven had played a role in it. My point was, don't mix those two parts. Secondly, the e-mails said that the report should be made public. In the end, it was sent confidentially to the Chamber. Thirdly, it should be ensured that the spokesmen are not surprised. That's actually how that went.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u203	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u204	I would like to comment on one more question that has been raised. Did AZ write to the letter of June 3rd? No. However, comments have been made on draft versions along the lines I just outlined. That has not been taken over, by the way. That was the disclosure of the report. In the end, it was chosen to send it confidentially to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u205	The Prime Minister just said don't surprise the spokesmen. That was his summary of those e-mails. Isn't that perhaps the foundation for increasing the number of Members of Parliament to such a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u206	No. Van der Steur said something about this in Monday's letter, as in the debate in December. I thought that was sensible. It was not intended to happen to that extent, but that there would be no surprise with Recourt and Van der Steur. That's what I cared about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u207	Then where is our prime minister's divorce? I just tried at the VVD and the PvdA. What is there to think about, probe, look at sentences and make suggestions? And when does the Prime Minister say, no, that's way too far?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u208	That's a continuum. You can't make a hard cut and say, "Now it's going too far." This also came back in the discussion with Mr Recourt just now. It will undoubtedly be a discussion with Van der Steur in the near future. You can't make a hard cut. At some point you get the feeling: a lot of suggestion has been made here. I think that was the basis for Van der Steur to say, even in the previous debate, that I should have been more cautious earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u209	I would like to comment on the role of Mr Van der Steur. He was very closely involved in the editing of a letter, but earlier two VVD executives had stumbled upon this file, considering their involvement in this file. Then how does the Prime Minister come to explain this to him, perhaps, to suggest a third party, who has been very closely involved in this dossier, because he wrote along with a letter and actually set the line of action, as Minister? How does the Prime Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u210	When the issue of 3 June took place, there was, of course, no question of resignation. This happened when the receipt appeared in March 2015. We are talking about the period from 27 and 28 May 2014 to 3 June 2014. Then Fred Teeven and Ivo formed the rulers. I found and found that Van der Steur had good papers and had to do this job. That's my brief summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u211	That is very short, because the Prime Minister finally knew the role of Mr Van der Steur in this dossier. He was very closely involved in throwing the House of Representatives on the wrong foot and yet the Prime Minister makes Mr Van der Steur Minister. Can he really explain that again instead of the two words he just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u212	I can't add much more. If there is a vacancy, I, as foreman of my party, in close consultation with the party chairman and the group chairman in the Lower House, will consider the fulfilment of this. How do we deal with that? Then there's always suggestions. We agreed quite quickly that we found Klaas Dijkhoff and Ard van der Steur the right choice for State Secretary and Minister respectively. I'm still very happy with that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u213	I return to the letter of 3 June 2014. The 25th version I would like to discuss with the Minister later, but now the 28th and 29th draft version. That's about the e-mails the Prime Minister just said he didn't know. He didn't have enough memories of it either...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u214	No, I didn't know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u215	... as the interview report shows. It says: 'MP can only agree to mention Fred and not send the annex if it has been agreed with the spokesmen that Fred and the annex remain out of order before, during and after the debate.' Does the Prime Minister look back on the fact that he has been eagerly assisting in finding the truth? That doesn't occur to me first when I read this passage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u216	I think this is an example of where I was in charge. On 16 December, I said that I could have been stronger, that I should have been more on the ball. I support these comments. Firstly, it affects the state-law relationship of a former prosecutor who now has a different state-law position vis-à-vis the Chamber and the Minister. Secondly, there was the idea at General Affairs that it was wise to make the report public. Those were our suggestions. The second one really touches the text of the letter. Nor was it taken over: the report was sent to the Chamber in confidence. So you might ask yourself what happened to that suggestion. Well, not enough. The report was sent to the Chamber confidentially. But that's also normal. It can also play a role today in a wide range of areas where advisers in General Affairs are involved in letters and notes and in advising me and the Council of Ministers. I have a constitutional responsibility to promote the unity of government policy. I must also ensure that the cabinet as a whole functions well. Firstly, we felt it appropriate to draw attention to the need to ensure that the spokesmen were not surprised. That is often my standard opening sentence for a lot of things: make sure there are no surprises. This also extends to parties that support the cabinet on elements of the policy, for example in the budgets for 2014, 2015 and 2016. We have also ensured that there are no surprises. Secondly, you are addressing the question of the possible inconsistency of the roles of Fred Teeven as prosecutor and Fred Teeven as Secretary of State. Thirdly, make the report public. I'm still in favour of that. It seemed appropriate to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u217	Now the Prime Minister is giving a remarkable explanation. The e-mail the Prime Minister says he doesn't know literally states that it has been agreed with the spokesmen that it will not be considered "before, during and after the debate."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u218	Fred Teeven, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u219	That's a remarkable lineup, isn't it? The Prime Minister has not answered the question. How can you agree in advance on how the debate will run and on what will happen before, during and after the debate? Surely it is a striking explanation of state law and the relationship between the Chamber and Government when it is decided by the government what questions the Chamber can and cannot ask before, during and after the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u220	No, I think it is perfectly normal for me to give the idea about the alignment with the spokesmen: point them out to the complicated state-law situation that arises when Fred Teeven is questioned in a debate on issues for which he has a duty of confidentiality from a previous job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u221	This isn't about asking Fred Teeven himself. It is about the sense in which the Prime Minister himself tries to send, in advance and with the spokesmen, a debate that has yet to take place in the Chamber. He does so by agreeing with the spokesmen that it will not be considered before, during and after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u222	That's what I'd do again. I think that's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u223	Sorry, my conclusion is that this is a very worrying view of how we are debating here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u224	That is what I thought, and that is what I think, because it seemed sensible to me that Security and Justice should say in contact with Members of Parliament: please note that Fred is not in an impossible position by asking him to explain to the Chamber a matter he has done as a prosecutor and for which he has a duty of secrecy. He cannot speak about this openly in the Chamber and therefore ask the Minister. I don't think that's a crazy idea. How often does that happen? Very rarely, because in my 5.5 years in office, I believe, I have not seen a minister get so excited with a previous position. But this was of course very clear, because this issue was about the withdrawal of Cees H., a case that Fred Teeven had done as a prosecutor. So there was a huge risk that all kinds of questions would be asked in the Chamber. The opposition is, of course, completely free to do so, and I said: at least give my thought to the spokesmen that I think it would be wise not to do so. The spokesmen then, of course, decide for themselves what to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u225	Mr Recourt, it is actually Mr Verhoeven's turn, but I see that you have something else to say. I don't know if that's true, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u226	Yes, I do. I want to make a personal statement. The suggestion is made that an appointment has been made with me. There's no deal. I have only been in contact with the political assistant of the then minister. It has never been said: do you or do you not want to say anything about this Secretary of State and his role? If that were asked, of course I would not be bound by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u227	This shows that it is about the contact of General Affairs with the Ministry of Security and Justice and not directly with the MPs. It was indeed Mr Recourt is right to say that it was a matter for the Ministry. It was our guidance from General Affairs, and I'm behind it. Then the Ministry of Security and Justice did what it wanted to do with it and so it should.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u228	The Prime Minister just said that it was very important not to put Mr Teeven in a difficult position. Like that was more important than finding the truth and getting that receipt. That's what it was all about in the end, of course. Here's what's going on with me. The letter we are talking about all the time was sent in June 2014 and was about sending the Van Brummen report to the Chamber. That report was discussed with Mr Teeven, not by Mr Van Brummen himself, because he was not allowed to do so. It was done by a DG from the Ministry who then gave his report to Van Brummen. So it was definitely about information from Bitches. If the Prime Minister then calls in order not to talk about Bitch, that is an extremely curious way of contributing to finding that receipt. You're just gonna do everything you can to keep that receipt from being found, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u229	It's just not true. It's not about that at all. It is about the situation that there would be a debate in the Chamber. That debate did not take place because, in the end, there was no debate in the Chamber on the letter of 3 June. Nothing happened after that. The letter was sent and landed here, but after that there was no debate. My point was: if there is to be a debate, make sure that you do not put Fred Teeven in an impossible state position by asking him to make public statements about the withdrawal and what was behind it, because he was a public prosecutor. That was my point. I was very supportive of that. Of course, emails are shared very often from General Affairs with departments. I don't see any of those. We are talking internally about what we think of a particular issue, and this is then reflected in contact with the departments. I take full responsibility for this both under state law and in terms of content. I think it's a logical thought. Mr Verhoeven is now looking for something that is really not behind it. It was purely for that reason and that is why I was in favour of this report becoming public. I wanted that, because of the reasons I have just outlined in response to the previous issue. It seemed important for a thorough investigation to take place. That investigation had now taken place and a letter would be sent to that effect. In the end it did not happen, but it was also possible that it would be debated in the Chamber. I pointed out one state-law risk, which is that you put Fred Teeven in an impossible position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u230	Indeed, I am looking for something, and that is not surprising after all that has happened in the last two years. I find it really very strange that Mr Teeven is being heard by a dg as part of Mr Van Brummen's research, which was not allowed to talk to Teeven himself. The case was then discussed and a discussion report was made. This is given to Mr Van Brummen. It says "no actual memories," as almost everyone involved in this file has no actual memories, none of it remembers. Next, the Prime Minister has an idea: you know what, we are going to make sure that the two coalition parties are at least asked not to talk about Fred Teeven; this while Fred Teeven is indeed part of the reason why that letter was sent. That's weird, right? Then as Prime Minister, you're not trying to make sure that receipt is found, but aren't you actually working against the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u231	Mr Verhoeven adds all kinds of facts which we discussed in detail during the debate on 10 March last year and again in December last year in response to the report by the Oosting Committee. We said a great deal about this at the time, things that were not known to me at least in June 2014. What was known to me then is this. There's been an investigation. One: I thought it wise to send this publicly to the Chamber. Two: make sure the groups are not surprised about the letter. Three: I think it would be wise not to put Fred Teeven in an impossible constitutional position; I want to make that assessment. Mr Verhoeven now links this to all kinds of things in Van Brummen's research. At least they were not known to me at the time. It was only in March last year that all this became known to me. We also discussed the discussion report in detail last time. Mr Verhoeven now looks very difficult; I am talking about the discussion report between the top official and Mr Teeven. I also said that if I had had more time to read that discussion report then, we might have been able to send it to the Chamber in that debate of 10 March 2015. But we are talking about June 2014 The only thing that was known at the time: an investigation has been carried out, and conclusions have been drawn. My guide: make it public. Eventually, it was sent confidentially. Secondly, discuss with the spokesmen that you should not put Fred in that impossible position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u232	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u233	So the Prime Minister says: I did not know that there was an investigation in which Mr Teeven was heard indirectly. He didn't know that. Yet he said: at least make sure Fred is not mentioned, that Fred stays out of order, and send the investigation to the Chamber. I don't think that's consistent. I find that very strange. Because then you do not know on the one hand that Mr Teeven has been heard in the context of an investigation, but you say on the other hand: make sure that the spokesmen do not ask for Fred, because then he will find himself in a difficult position. I don't think that's consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u234	That's not a proper representation. What the hell is this? I wasn't aware of all the details of how that investigation had taken place. I knew there had been an investigation; I didn't know all the details of it. What I knew was that the investigation had taken place. Make that public now, I thought. So my comment did not get to Fred Teeven in relation to how he had participated in the investigation, but to the fact that the investigation was about an issue in which he had had a great deal of involvement as a prosecutor. I found it unwise under state law to put him in an impossible position in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u235	With all due respect, there's something wrong with the Prime Minister's reasoning. What happened? A 27th version has been submitted to MPs Van der Steur and Recourt. They seem to have indicated that they want a passage about a conversation between Roose and Teeven in the letter. We need to get that passage out of AZ. That's the passage in which Teven told Roes that he did have a memory. Let that be just the letter that the Prime Minister later said he happened to have seen during a debate, and that he knew nothing about anything. So he knew that at that time in May 2014. That's when he knew there was a note. That note had to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u236	In May 2014, there were three considerations for General Affairs. First of all, bring out the report. Secondly, make sure you don't put Fred Teeven in an impossible position. That's what hit that remark. Thirdly, make sure that the spokesmen are not surprised. That's how it is. I haven't seen that note for nothing just now, "the evil eye," debate of December, March 10, 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u237	No, that's not true. That's not true if we read Oosting like that. The report clearly states that AZ, the Prime Minister, wants the passage of Roes and Teeven out. Then he already had knowledge of that passage. And he doesn't say, "I don't want to surprise the spokesmen." No, he says: it must have been agreed with the spokesmen that the annex was not included. This is not a file of a prosecutor with a criminal; this was about a conversation that Bitch had with Roes, in which he indicated that he had memory. I didn't want that coming to the room. Fortunately, after two reports from Oosting, it did come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u238	Once again, I saw that discussion report for the first time in the pause of the debate on 10 March. Had we had more time, we could have made that discussion report public in that debate, I said last time; we remember the discussion in December last year. This is about Fred Teeven's constitutional position. I found something about that. When Oosting asked me about the e-mails from General Affairs, I said that I do not know them, but that I do know that it was important for us to ensure coordination. We kept saying: make sure that it is properly regulated by state law and make sure that the report becomes public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u239	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u240	The prime minister's gonna be a rehearsal clock. He doesn't want to acknowledge that he's all about the note between Roes and Teeven, which the MPs had to put in, but from EZ out. That has been the contribution of this Prime Minister to getting the truth out of the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u241	I first saw that note on March 10th last year. I have already said that if I could have looked at it for longer, I could have noticed that there wasn't really much exciting in it and that we could have shared it. That was one of my three conclusions in the debate in December. I didn't see that note before March 10th last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u242	The Prime Minister hangs everything on Mr Teeven's constitutional position at the time: he could not talk about it because it was about his previous position. However, a year earlier, in 2013, Mr Teeven spoke extensively with Mr Doedens for his book on the Cees H. case, about the deal he had made and what he thought of it. He's talked about it extensively. Why could Mr Teeven speak with Mr Doedens, but could Mr Van Brummen not speak with him and should he remain out of the debate as frightfully as possible as the Prime Minister was able?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u243	Again, the whole choreography about talking or not talking to Fred Teeven was part of Van Brummen's research. Here is the question: the research is done; what do we do with the research? Then I say three things: make it public, take care of no surprises, and make sure that you do not put Fred Teeven in an impossible position under state law, which would require him to say things in the Chamber that are covered by his confidentiality obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u244	Mr Teeven spoke about it. He gave an interview about it in his capacity as Secretary of State, printed in a book. It's about his memories; it didn't deserve the beauty prize; he looks back on it. Isn't it weird to say that MPs shouldn't ask about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u245	The question was: what were the compensations? We also discussed this in detail in December. Fred Teeven, of course, can never communicate about this; it is covered by his obligation of professional secrecy as a prosecutor. Otherwise, he might put people at risk; you don't know what the consequences are. A state's attorney has a duty of secrecy. So does Fred Teeven. My concern at that time was that there would be questions of the type: what is the opposite and what exactly is the whole case about Cees H.? Of course, Fred Teeven can never discuss this in a debate from his previous position. This is a matter of state law, but it is also a matter of substance, on the basis of that responsibility. That was my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u246	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u247	This is a strange way of doing things, because Mr. Bitch has talked about it in a book outside the Chamber and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u248	But not about the consideration!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u249	In that book he made all kinds of announcements and gave a judgment of value. He talked about it and defended himself. He said, "I know everything and you know nothing." That's what he did outside the Chamber. And that should not happen in the Chamber. And where the investigation is taking place, a conversation between the researcher and Mr. Teeven is stopped. It's highly questionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u250	First of all, that whole debate never took place. The PvdA spokesperson just said that if he had reached that request, he would probably not have responded at all. This was my guidance to Security and Justice in contact with the MPs, to ensure that no state-law impossible position would arise. I think that makes sense. After all, it wouldn't have been so crazy to ask in the Chamber about the compensation. And Fred Teeven could never talk about that, could he? I don't know about that 2013 interview with or about Doedens, but I assume he doesn't talk about the consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u251	It starts with the minute to become more surreal. I would almost like to ask how preparations have been made for this debate and how much coordination there has been with the spokesmen here. The Prime Minister defends himself by saying that the coalition spokesmen would not ask questions to Mr Teeven, but there are also opposition spokesmen. The statement that it was done to protect Fred Teeven so that he would not come into a difficult constitutional position can simply not be right. If the Prime Minister had genuinely feared that this would happen in a debate in the Chamber, there should have been contact with opposition spokesmen. That is the only way to ensure that certain questions will not be asked in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u252	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u253	The defence that this has been done to protect Mr Bitch is certainly not correct. I take it the Prime Minister agrees with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u254	No, because I think it makes sense for General Affairs to say to V and J that it should give this consideration to MPs who are likely to be part of the coalition...................................................................................................................................................................................... I have heard from Mr Recourt that this has not happened. Nor has the debate taken place. I apologize, but I think it makes perfect sense. There's a lot going on behind it, but this is really how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u255	Let me ask you my second question: did the Prime Minister know that a Member of Parliament wrote along with that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u256	I didn't know the details, but I knew of course that MPs were consulted by the Ministry of V and J. I didn't ask for nothing to make sure there wouldn't be any surprises this time. In the meantime it appears that there were none, because there was intensive contact, at least with Mr Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u257	The Prime Minister said that MPs shouldn't be surprised. If they write in the letter, at least they won't be surprised. Does the Prime Minister think that surprises should be avoided in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u258	This is about another question, namely how you feel about the involvement of MPs in the drafting of letters. I have just said in general terms that I recognize myself in the reflections of Minister Van der Steur on this matter in December last year and in last Monday's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u259	I have a very brief question for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u260	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u261	What annex is mentioned in the note?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u262	I don't know those e-mails, but I assume it's about the Van Brummen report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u263	Can the Prime Minister respond to this in the second term? I am very attached to that, because the impression is given that this is about the note with Roes. I would therefore like to know very clearly which annex it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u264	At least I know I wanted the Van Brummen report to be public. I have always been informed, including in the preparation for this debate, that the annex concerns the Van Brummen report. However, I will double check that. I'll check my officials for confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u265	You can do that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u266	I'll double-check it again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u267	I fully agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg's request. It's about the interview report that's been made public. It states that both Mr Teeven and the annex would remain out of order before, during and after the debate. I think that is what some of the other Members of Parliament think is about the discussion between Mr Roes and Mr Teeven. The Prime Minister, however, pretends that this is about the investigation. Then it says that all this does not mean anything to Mr Rutte. So if he's gonna check this out later, I'd like to be clear about what he can't remember. If he can't remember it, then it could be the report of the discussion with Mr Roes. I ask this because it is crucial information that would have been needed retroactively in order to find out where the receipt was found two years later and to find out the amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u268	Now I also understand what Mrs Van Toorenburg meant, because I could not place it earlier. I'd like to raise a few things. One: we had three considerations, but I will not repeat them again. Two: that's what email contact has been about. As I said to Mr Oosting, I do not know those e-mails. I don't need to know those e-mails either, because what we discuss internally at General Affairs finds its impact in emails and other contacts. They are not all re-presented to me. You don't have to, because that's how normal contact with the ministries goes. As I said, we had three considerations. I will double-check the annex, including the official. My absolute conviction is that this is about the Van Brummen report, but I will double-check it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u269	Will that be dealt with in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u270	Yeah, I promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u271	I have another supplementary question which I would like to return to. The same discussion report states that the specific e-mail about mentioning Mr Teeven's name in the letter does not say anything to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u272	No, I didn't, because I just said I don't know the e-mails. However, I take responsibility for this in substance, because there are sensible things in those e-mails.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u273	So two things have crossed paths: the Prime Minister's idea of keeping Mr. Teeven out of sight because of the constitutional aspect of his previous role in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the fact that... I see the Prime Minister's thumbs up, but I'm thumbs down if he's not careful, because I don't like this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u274	I don't put a thumb up, I just count.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u275	The Prime Minister wanted to keep Mr Teeven out of sight because of his constitutional position in his previous role; that is dangerous and that bites. Secondly, at the same time his adviser thought that it was necessary not to mention Mr Teeven in the letter, but Mr Rutte himself says that he does not remember. The Prime Minister is actually claiming that these two things happened to cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u276	Wait a minute. I just got a note handed over by text-contact. It concerns note 20 on page 221, which states that the annex refers to the Van Brummen report. That's closing again. That was also the misunderstanding I just had with Mrs Van Toorenburg. So that wasn't about the interview report, it was about the Van Brummen report. Again, I wanted that report to the Chamber. Two: no surprises for the spokesmen. Three: Bitches, complicated by state law; that weighs well before, during and after. Those were our considerations. What I said to Oosting, "I don't know those e-mails," is correct. Even now there will be mails that I don't know, but of which I can take care of the content with a certain probability. They are always a reflection of conversations we have had, or official suggestions which, because of the many contacts we have, can have the absolute conviction that I agree with them. That's the work of counselors at General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u277	Mr Verhoeven has the opportunity to ask one last question, because I see him looking a little unhappy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u278	I think that's because I'm not happy about this. I believe that there is far too much uncertainty. I think it's quite a coincidence that these two things have crossed paths. On the one hand, the Prime Minister says that in 2014 he had a very clear idea that Mr. Bitch should be kept out of sight because otherwise he would get into trouble with his previous position. On the other hand, his own advisors send mails that affect a letter and therefore also on finding the receipt, which states that the name of Teeven should not be mentioned in a letter. That's two different things. The Prime Minister didn't know anything about this exchange of mail, but the Prime Minister also happened to have his views on the role of Teeven, but for a very different reason. That's a special coincidence to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u279	Here too, things are combined with each other that I would like to tear apart. Legally speaking, it is indisputablely true... Someone just said that Teven had also had a conversation with Doedens in 2013. I do not know exactly what that is about, but I assume that this was not about the consideration, because we would have known it. Oosting himself says in Oosting I that he does not know exactly what the consideration is. So we didn't know him. My main concern was that you put a prosecutor in an impossible position by damaging the confidentiality of his work as a prosecutor. Maybe that'll put people in danger, too. I didn't know that case and I didn't know what it was like, but I did know that you were at risk. That was one trade-off. Secondly, as well as Van der Steur's comment on the letter, this was mainly intended to make the letter more open and give more information; you can also see this in the media comments. I considered it particularly important that this annex should go to the Chamber; at least it has now been clarified that this is Van Brummen's report. Thirdly, I wanted the spokesmen not to be surprised. Again, I still think that is sensible suggestions from General Affairs. I guess that's how I'd do it again if this happened. Then such a whole dossier would have to be exactly the same again, but given the context at the time, I thought this would be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u280	I would like to mention the fact that Mr Van Brummen and not the General Court of Auditors were initially given that examination. The Prime Minister just said that he was happy afterwards that Mr Van Brummen was going to do that research. Is that still him? If so, on what basis? Maybe he can explain that. The investigation seems to me to be an investigation by Hans Kazán, but the Prime Minister seems to love it. Maybe he could explain why he liked that choice at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u281	I just said that. With Oosting I in mind, you can now make quite a few comments about the quality of that research. I've just said that a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u282	And why was Mr Van Brummen chosen? Why did the Prime Minister accept that choice when he heard that name? Mr Van Brummen was very closely involved in the whole structure of V and J, at that time still Justice. He was a secretary-general there and later he reorganised the state's attorney. Wasn't he directly involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u283	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u284	So he was very closely involved. He has been the right-hand man of Minister Opstelten in Rotterdam-Rijnmond for many years.I have been able to observe that myself and, of course, get a boyfriend like that. That smells like boyfriend politics. That's not right. In such a case, you simply have to choose the Court of Auditors and that has not happened. Faithful politics has been preferred to independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u285	I just told you that I don't remember knowing anything about that tension field between choosing one or the other. I heard that later. Ivo Opstelten already told me that it would be Van Brummen. That's a man of stature, so I didn't have any reason to object at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u286	Mr Van Brummen has been Director-General at Justice. He was therefore closely involved, even at the time of the Bitch Deal. So he was partly responsible for the whole misery that has arisen. Also from the D.A.'s office, as a member of the Attorney General's team. Such a person is then appointed and not Mr Vendrik of the General Court. I really don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u287	I just answered all the questions about that. These were the two main issues. I'll see if there are any other cases. I have, of course, answered a lot of questions by now. I don't think there's anything left. It is known what Van der Steur will discuss, namely V and J, his involvement in the letter of 3 June, SSC-ICT and Oosting's conclusions. Given that fact, my question is whether there are any issues I should be responding to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u288	So you were actually done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u289	Yeah, I think so. I have actually dealt with the other cases in all the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u290	We have just talked in detail about the later crucial letter of 3 June 2014, which actually misinformed the Chamber at the time. This is only true in March 2015. The discussion report shows that the Minister is being asked whether, when it appeared in 2015 that the Chamber was misinformed, he did not think: how could that have happened, that the receipt was not found before? His answer is quite telling, namely: "No. On that day, I was mainly concerned with the political consequences, namely the resignation of two rulers." That is why once again the question to the Prime Minister what he has done to direct the Ministry of Security and Justice. What did he do himself to bring the truth closer? Has he eagerly sought the truth? What direction did he direct at the Ministry of Security and Justice during that period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u291	We discussed this in detail last time. That's when I said two things. The first is that General Affairs does not have its own role in truth finding. The department consists, at its core, of a very small official summit and nine advisers. It would be impossible and it is not the state-law relationship either. The second is that I am obliged to ensure that the cabinet as a whole functions well and to promote the unity of government policy. I have to make sure we implement the political agreements we made as a coalition. Against that background I reflected on my role in December. I said that I simply should have sat more on the ball and said earlier: go, at the table, talk, what's going on here. Not to go into truth-finding yourself, but to ensure that things were managed in better ways. I shared all that with the Chamber in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u292	Yeah, that's right. Now, however, we have a discussion report which clearly shows that the Prime Minister was particularly concerned about the human consequences in his cabinet and a little less about how this truth could not have been brought out sooner. There is no evidence that he himself contributed to this. This brings me to my next question, a question that I specifically asked in the first term: how does the Prime Minister look back on six years of VVD in the Ministry of Security and Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u293	This file clearly did not go well. There are two rulers who have resigned. I have just said the necessary thing about my own role, also referring to the debate we had on this in December. If I look further at the functioning in the Netherlands of the criminal justice chain, of security and of the police, we will have a very different discussion and I do not think this debate is about that, but I would like to say a few words about it, I think we can see that fortunately a lot of things are going well. We have 110,000 people working, in all those organisations added up, who do important work every day under very difficult conditions. Fortunately, very good progress is also being made. Look at the safety in the Netherlands and the decline in all kinds of violence statistics. Look at the formation of the national police. There's still a lot to do. It is all not finished, it is financial and it is discussed in many other ways. Nevertheless, good performance is being achieved in the Netherlands. I was always in favour of these departments working in full. I know that there are differences of opinion in the Chamber, both in the coalition and beyond, but I still think it is right that the police and the Public Prosecutor should be able to deal with this security together. I see the results of that too. If you look at this file very specifically, I'll say no. If you look very specifically at the administrative culture in the Ministry, then it is not for nothing that we there, also against the background of these events, are engaged in changing the culture. The Minister of Security and Justice will deal with this in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u294	The report and the further investigation of Oosting II show that it is an administrative chaos at the Ministry of Security and Justice. What I am missing in replying to the Prime Minister is some self-reflection, in the sense that it is the responsibility of the VVD that this ministry has been made so large and that VVD executives have been in charge there. They have caused bad direction and a bad culture in the ministry. I do not belong to any self-reflection with the Prime Minister, who is responsible for that. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u295	I simply do not understand that conclusion against the background of the answer I gave to the first question, in which I said: if you look at the whole of safety in the Netherlands and the 110,000 people who work for it, you will see that impressive performance is being achieved. If you look at the Ministry at the same time, there are two serious comments to make. First of all, a great deal has gone wrong in this dossier. Secondly, there is the need to note the administrative culture at the top of the ministry but also in the ministry as a whole. It is not for nothing that the Minister for Security and Justice, together with the new Secretary-General and the Department as a whole, is trying to turn the core department in terms of culture into a department that can drive the great security and justice chain with great openness and power. The Minister will say what he needs to say about this in a moment. Mr Van Nispen's comments also assume that merging the various tasks would have exactly led to the challenges that lie ahead. I disagree. Mr Oosting also said something about this. Others have said something about this in the debate. The size of the department does not, in my view, determine this, but there are problems. When I say that, I'm not just saying the good things. Then I respect the 110,000 people, but I also name the things that are not going well. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u296	In the brief suspension, we were thinking about what the Prime Minister would all go into. Then my associate said to me: bet he's gonna leave that piece about Dijkhoff that he was called off the toilet, like a hot potato and he's not gonna say anything about it? And who amazes me? He's just passing it by. So I really want to ask the Prime Minister: can he comment on what I said about the situation described in detail by the AD? I am asking this because the Secretary of State said in the previous debate that that would not be the case. I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether he called Dijkhoff, who was in the bathroom at the time, in his smartphone: go inside now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u297	Well, do we need to know all those details?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u298	I'm also trying to reconstruct it, because that Monday was very unclear. I have no concrete memory of that phone call. I do know, however, that Dijkhoff and Van der Steur as MPs and spokesmen of this department also had to do with the rulers of Security and Justice. So a conversation like that could have just happened. The tension was also enormous that day, because in the morning it turned out that the receipt could be found. If I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg correctly, it was that Monday 9 March. I have not been able to check that article in the AD, but well, if I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg correctly, it was Monday 9 March in the morning. That's when the receipt was known. That day also ended with the resignation of the two rulers. So, yeah, it could be just like that. I have no concrete memory. I don't know exactly. Well, Dijkhoff was also a spokesperson in this area, so if he was... I think he also explained in the debate that he was there at the time or at another time... then you should take back the Acts of the previous debate from his campaign obligation. But I don't know if this was Monday or earlier. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u299	The Prime Minister can rest assured that I have looked at the Acts. That is why I am asking. The image was put down that Dijkhoff happened to be there. He would have preferred to fly in Maastricht, but he happened to be there. He was in there. Then someone came up with a draft letter. But that is not true, because the Prime Minister has summoned him inside and said: you must go inside now. Then he went in and everything was going on. That's a crucial moment. So it's not just a coincidence that there are some MPs there. The point is that the Prime Minister is chasing in his campaign leader because something is going on. I can't imagine the Prime Minister not remembering that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u300	I don't know that article, but apparently it will start on 4 March. We discussed last time that Dijkhoff was at the Ministry. That's right. I don't remember the call, but he was at the Ministry at the time. That's what he explained here, too, to catch up on the campaign. So it must have been in that context, but I thought it was on March 9th and that's why I couldn't quite place it. However, if it was on 4 March, it will of course fit in with what we discussed here in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u301	Exactly. We've talked about this extensively. Then the Prime Minister denied it. That is why the question is whether the AD is lying or whether the Prime Minister can't remember anything about this at all. The latter seems to me to be a good thing. If someone says that to me on the phone, I think I'd know 20 years later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u302	I often tell Dijkhoff to get off the toilet, but I don't remember this particular moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u303	I would like to continue where my colleague Van Nispen just ended up. I do so in an attempt to achieve some self-reflection after five and a half years of Security and Justice. I'm trying to open that as much as I can. It is always faint to say that we have always seen it and always knew it. It is true, however, that at the start of the ministry, the group leader at the time said that it is significant that "safety" takes precedence in naming. It's set up as a polemically formulated prestige project. Looking back, with two rulers from one party on Security and Justice and with all the affairs in mind, should that lead to self-reflection? Surely this should lead to a very critical assessment in terms of: is the choice we made five and a half years ago a good one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u304	Sure. First of all, I support that choice. Nor do I see any reason to make a different choice in the present complex of facts. I also notice that there are differences of opinion in the Chamber. At macro level, the goal is to make the Netherlands safer. Mr Van Oosten spoke quite flatly about catching bad guys, which he was referring to making the country safer. The Ministry is making very good progress in this area, and the 110,000 men and women working there are making impressive achievements to ensure that the country becomes safer, safe on the streets and protected. There are no guarantees, but we are committed to that. The results are also clearly visible. We have also succeeded in achieving what we were hoping to achieve: driving the police much more comprehensively by setting up the national police. That proposal was adopted with broad support in the Chamber. These are the positive developments. In the core department, you see two things. I have just told Mr Van Nispen in great detail that a great deal has gone wrong in this dossier. The second observation is that much needs to be done with the administrative culture in general, in the top, in the ministry, also in the contacts with the Shared Service Center. That is also what the Oosting Committee has dealt with. I note that this Minister of Security and Justice is working on this. However, I do not agree that this is the result of the merger. This is the subject of a political debate. In this respect, I agree with Mr Oosting and others who say that this type of problem is not related to its size.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u305	That whole story of catching bad guys and so on, I think. I also want bad guys to be caught, but I want them to be kept under the rule of law. The Ministry of Justice, in which justice and the rule of law prevail, has been the guardian of the rule of law for a long time. Suddenly, however, security becomes the driving principle and two people from one party, who always puts security first, are placed there with the political mission: be tough, be brave, security must now become priority number one. If we take the affair described in both Oosting reports as a case, then you can see what the result of it is. Then you see that prestige, image, imagery are so incredibly important that at crucial moments even the truth is subordinate to it. One cannot be seen separately from the other. I hope that leads to self-reflection at the VVD. I will make it even more concrete, because the Prime Minister looks somewhat puzzled. There's gonna be checks-and-balances. We do want security to go to the Interior because of the checks-and-balances. At the very least, you should put in place directors from two different parties, in order to get rid of that party political image and that party political mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u306	We also have two rulers of the same colour in Social Affairs. I don't see any problem with that in itself. That's what it is. Let me come back to Oosting. I took a look at puzzles because Mr Segers said things were covered up. Oosting notes three things. He says that much has gone wrong and that there has been no clear, unambiguous and powerful direction, good coordination and a good exchange of information. I share those Oosting conclusions. That's about the file before us. He also says: no clues have been found to deliberately counter the search for the information sought. I'll take that for granted, too. I do not have an information position of my own at this point, but we have no reason to believe that that is not true. He also said that the functioning of the board, the cultural change needed and the relationship between the administration department and the Shared Service Center-ICT are important issues in the conclusions that need to be worked on. That's what we're doing. With this I outline that there are really things that aren't right on the department itself. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in terms of the purpose of the department, which is to make our country safer with 110,000 people, it is fortunately moving forward with great leaps; see the latest crime monitor. That's important. The people who are following this debate, of course, want the administration to run smoothly, which is obvious, and we are working on it, but above all we want it to be safe on the streets. It's getting safer. That too is important to establish, also with respect for those 110,000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u307	The Prime Minister sketches the mistakes as if they were flaws of beauty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u308	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u309	This project has been set up as a political project, up to and including the appointment of the one-after-last sg, a party partner. That was a political appointment. So it's very politically driven. In the light of the past five and a half years and in the light of the Teeth Deal and everything we have discussed here, does that not lead to self-reflection, to an evaluation of what has been set out as a very political project?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u310	Mr Segers' question contains a lot of assumptions that I often hear, such as the assumption that the department is too large and the assumption that there were all kinds of very specific intentions. As far as I am concerned, the intention was and remains that Security and Justice should make our country safer, that we should be safe on the streets, that we should be able to live safely in our neighbourhood, that our children should be able to go to school safely and that the country should be protected from attacks. There are no absolute guarantees, but they must be worked hard and there must be the best people. As far as these objectives are concerned, it should be noted that, fortunately, very great progress has been made there and that things are working in our country, which is able to make our country really safer. At the same time, I'm not taking anything away from the report. I mention all these things, all those criticisms that Oosting expresses and which I make mine, on this dossier and more generally on the administrative culture. I'm not running away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u311	Article 68 of the Constitution states that the Cabinet must ensure that correct and correct information reaches the Chamber. The prime minister is the primus inter pares in the cabinet. He just said that there are things that really can't be done, such as the far-reaching editing of a letter, while other contact between ministers and the Chamber, warning or getting Members of Parliament off the toilet and asking if a letter can be more humble, can all be done. If one wants to promote integrity in business, it is generally said that one should have conversations about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u312	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u313	Has there been a discussion in the Council of Ministers about what is appropriate in dealing with Members of Parliament? I would like to mention, for example, taking it off the toilet and involving Members of Parliament and what is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u314	In general terms, the relationship with the Chamber is discussed very frequently. But you have to be careful. That is what my comment was about earlier. I agree with Van der Steur's reflections on his own role in the letter of 3 July. At the same time you must be careful to say that there can be no contact at all. Let me give you the example of the loan system, on which agreements have been made with GroenLinks. Then you ask: have we put it on paper right now, can you find it? Not that it'll be written along, but you'll say: are you surprised if we send this letter? It can also be between the coalition and the parties supporting the budget in order, as in 2013 and in the following years. That's normal. There's no other way. You can't do all that in public. I would argue not to think that you can cut that exactly with a pair of scissors. That is a question of keeping each other sharp in practice. That is why this debate is good. I believe that Van der Staaij said it very nicely: whoever is without sin, cast the first stone. But you don't have to keep throwing stones; that's how I summarize the second Bible text he quoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u315	I'm asking if there's been a conversation in the miner's council about when these forms of association can or can't be. I get a you-bowl back, which is that GroenLinks also sometimes consults. I'm very sorry to hear that. I would still like to know if there have been any discussions in the Council of Ministers about what you can do. I don't want there to be a clear manual, but I want you to talk to each other about it. Have you had those conversations? Was there a reflection on the action? Was it asked: was this integrity, how do you feel about that, how do I feel about that and for me it's supposed to be about here? If that is not the case, will the Prime Minister arrange this in the Council of Ministers in the light of this debate? I would greatly appreciate such self-reflection between the ministers taking place in the secrecy of the Trêveszaal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u316	The internal procedures of the Council of Ministers are, of course, confidential. I can say that this kind of investigation is being discussed in the Council of Ministers. I am not going to go into exactly how we do that and whether we are going to follow the exact menu that Mrs Van Tongeren is suggesting here. But Mrs Van Tongeren can be sure that reports of this kind will be discussed. You reflect on that with each other. I am not going to go into exactly the way we do that. I think that is a step too far, but of course we do. You have to learn from that. This debate, too, is useful for all of us. 'Cause where do you put the line? Van der Steur also said: I should have put the brake on earlier. I'm gonna translate it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u317	Mrs. Van Tongeren, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u318	The question that arises from this is: have these kinds of talks also taken place between the ministers and the summit of the official staff of the various departments? Only in conversations can you rekindle the sense of integrity and when you have to. This appears to be necessary, among other things, at the Ministry of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u319	I find the term "integrity" uncomfortable here, because I do not believe that this is about integrity. I think this is about taste, what you think is appropriate. What does and what does not work and what does not fit in the state system in the Netherlands? I told you before that you talk about the things that happen every time, simply by discussing the conclusions with each other. We have done so several times in detail in the Council of Ministers. Within the Department of Security and Justice, there is even a whole change programme on this point. The Ministry of General Affairs, of course, always looks very closely at these issues and draws lessons from them. I just want to stay away from the exact form in which we do that, because before you know it, there's gonna be the thought of hiring a desk or doing something else. And that's exactly what I wouldn't want. Leave that to ourselves. In the parties, of course, they also make that assessment. I understand and agree with Mrs Van Tongeren's point. You do have to learn lessons with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u320	Let me come back to what we would like to discuss further in the second term, and the Prime Minister said: that has already been resolved, because that was Van Brummen's investigation. When I read the interview report, it says again: do not send the attachment. The Prime Minister has been saying all along: I was the one who wanted the investigation report to be sent along. That's what he's been saying. And here it is said that, according to the Prime Minister, it is Van Brummen's investigation that the Prime Minister could only agree to mention the name and not send the annex.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u321	That had to do with another aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u322	Yeah, if it were agreed with the spokesmen that Bitch would stay out of order before, during and after.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u323	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u324	I can explain that, too. There were three cases for us. Firstly, make the annex public. Secondly, make sure that the spokesmen are not surprised. Thirdly, account must be taken of the complex constitutional situation in which Teeven could come if he had to quote from the confidentiality of his activities as an official in a debate in the Chamber. What's playing in this mail, of course, is that two things come together. If, in the Chamber debate where Van Brummen would not be public, Bitches were to act, that would hold even more. Why? Because the whole context in which Van Brummen talks about Bitches would not be known. That was not a cardinal argument, because I consider all three of them self-employed. We have also said this as General Affairs, but those two of the three elements we mentioned, namely 1. note the state-law position of Teeven and 2. make the report public, collectively, of course, squeeze extra if the report is not public. If the report were not to be public and if bitches were to be involved in the parliamentary debate, it would be even more complicated, because you would miss out on all the contexts. That's the thought behind that sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u325	But the Prime Minister himself said that at that time he did not know at all what had happened in the context of Van Brummen's investigation report. So I don't know how he's putting these two things together right now, when he just said those things were loose for him, because he didn't know one thing and he did. In conclusion, because this discussion can of course continue indefinitely: I would really like to hear from the Prime Minister in the second term exactly how it went with that annex. If I listen to him very carefully, I'll come to the following conclusion. Cloo had amnesia, Ruse had amnesia, Bitch had amnesia, Block had amnesia and the Prime Minister had an even more severe form of amnesia, so it seems, namely selective amnesia, because at one moment he says he didn't know something and at the other moment he did, because he could use noble thoughts again to make sure that Bitch didn't get into trouble and that receipt was eventually not found. I think it is too much like selective amnesia, and I want the Prime Minister to really take it away in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u326	I'm gonna do it now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u327	Maybe it's better to do that in the second term, because otherwise it's all going to be so fast and short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u328	I'll do it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u329	Don't talk through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u330	I can do it now. Listen, I've outlined the three things we wanted: the report publicly, watch for the position of Bitch and make sure there are no surprises for the spokesmen. This is what the guidance from General Affairs is about in those various e-mails in the run-up to the letter of 3 June. That plays extra with Bitch, of course. Look, Van Brummen was looking into exactly what happened to that receipt. So if the context of that investigation were not publicly known in the Chamber and Bitch is present in that debate, then it would become even more complicated. It was clear to us that we thought it was important that Teven should not be placed in an impossible constitutional position. What that sentence says will become even more complicated if you have not made the annex public. That attachment is that Van Brummen report. That's how it's done. Those are the facts. That's not a matter of amnesia. I know exactly what's going on; the one thing I didn't know and that's not amnesia; that's an actual thing called e-mails. But they didn't have to, because those e-mails reflected the discussions within General Affairs about what we wanted to achieve in the run-up to the drafting of that letter of 3 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u331	And that will come back in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u332	No, I don't have to go back on that in the second term. I've answered everything now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u333	Oh, that's been answered already. Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u334	As far as I am concerned, the Prime Minister's selective amnesia is still too much above this case. One minute he says he doesn't have any memories of certain e-mails. Then he says that he knows certain e-mails or that he didn't know them and that he couldn't remember them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u335	I can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u336	The Prime Minister has tried this a few times now, and it has still not succeeded. I find that very unfortunate, because I am listening here with a positive basic attitude to be able to rely on the Prime Minister's memory and on everything he says, my confidence in his memory is getting smaller and I increasingly feel that it is selective, not because I would like to, but because, unfortunately, the answer is going more and more in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u337	This is a big attack, and I really want to parry it, because I don't think it's right. It's just a few things. Oosting asks me, do you know those e-mails? The answer is no. That's not a matter of amnesia; I didn't know those e-mails. That didn't have to be because those e-mails reflect policy views within General Affairs about how we gave guidance to Security and Justice about that letter of 3 June on the three elements I mentioned. That's not amnesia; I didn't actually know that. I didn't need to know that either. At present, an e-mail is likely to be sent by the President of the Treasury to the Ministry of Finance on something related to the preparation of the budget. Then I don't know that e-mail, but I can most probably agree with the content of that e-mail. In this case too, I understand the content of the mail. I get that. Not only do I take care of them in terms of state law, but also in terms of content, because I know what it says. Those were the considerations we had on the three points I mentioned. So there's no memory loss. I didn't know those e-mails. That's okay, too. You don't need to know everything; that's not a big deal. There is one point this afternoon that I just didn't know had happened and that was that conversation Ivo Opstelten told me about in April "it will be Van Brummen." I didn't think I'd know until later. That is the only point I can honestly say to you: I do not remember that conversation. I am not surprised either, because on Tuesdays and Fridays ministers and secretaries of state talk about a lot of things and I only remember it when it seems politically brutal at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u338	The Prime Minister now has an explanation for that sense in that e-mail, in which it is about calling Fred; Fred Teeven, the then prosecutor who knew exactly what the amount was. He also ran everywhere saying, "I know exactly what's going on." The Prime Minister is saying once again that it does not matter to him and that he believes that the then Secretary of State should not have been put in that difficult position. So the Prime Minister confirms here that he had no idea that Fred Teeven knew at that time that Opstelten had been proclaiming inaccuracies in the Parliamentary debate in March 2014?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u339	What I knew at that time was Van Brummen's main conclusion, which was known to be that it could not be found. In the end, setups also wrote in that letter. I don't exactly have those sentences ready. That there was insufficient reminder of the exact amount of the amount. No, the remark about Fred Teeven about Security and Justice is touching on his constitutional position. I have always been concerned about this, and I have said this on several occasions here in December too, about all the issues relating to the whole case around Cees H., and not so much about the amount of the money but about what was now at stake in relation to these amounts of money. Fred Teeven couldn't say anything about that, of course, because that's confidential, he did it as an O.V. That was my point. In the end, that debate did not take place and the spokesperson of the PvdA never reached that idea of General Affairs, but that is the background why I made comments to Security and Justice on one of the three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u340	The passage that the Prime Minister just quoted was inserted by the man sitting next to him, namely Van der Steur, who was a Member of Parliament at the time. It made "insufficient memories" of it, but all right, we'll get to that in a minute. The Prime Minister says that Fred Teeven could not say anything about any consideration in a Chamber debate. But that is not what the Chamber was about at all, and the Prime Minister is well aware of that. The Court was concerned with the amount of the sum. It wasn't about any consideration. The politically relevant question was: did or did Minister Opstelten not lie in the Lower House? And there was one man who knew, and that was Fred Teeven. That had nothing to do with a consideration he could not say anything about in a debate in the Chamber. It was about the question of that amount, so the Prime Minister should really keep that whole consideration out of it, because that is not the point at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u341	My view is significantly at variation with that of Mr Van Nispen. I did believe that there was a serious risk that when a former prosecutor is questioned in a parliamentary debate about a matter on which he has a duty of secrecy, there would be a high risk of him entering an impossible field of tension at that time. I still think that's a logical consideration. It did not occur, the debate did not take place, the whole thought was not passed on, at least not to the spokesman of the Labour Party, but that was at least the background to my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u342	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u343	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is, of course, the report of the Oosting II Committee, as the committee is called in the corridors. I would therefore like to express my special thanks to the members of the committee, Mr Oosting, Mr Bauduin and Mr Van den Berge, the secretary, Mr Kreemers and the other members of the secretariat, for the work they have done very well in a short time. When I approached Mr Oosting, it was not at all self-evident that they would conduct a second study, also because the first study had already been of enormous magnitude and led to an intrusive report. I am very pleased that the committee has nevertheless accepted this task, also because Members were very well involved in the matter and were therefore able to carry out the second report quickly and efficiently. The report clearly shows that much has gone wrong in the search for the receipt. The report describes the failing direction of the department and evokes the image of lack of action and unity. It lacked clear, unambiguous and powerful direction and good coordination and information exchange. This means that the report clearly confirms the view that the Oosting I Committee had already drawn in the first report. Both reports therefore underline the urgency of the VenJ change programme, which I will deal with shortly, also in response to the questions. In addition, the report makes it clear that no evidence has been found for the purpose of preventing the search for the information on the payment data. The cabinet and therefore I fully endorse the committee's conclusions on the functioning of the department, the cultural change needed and the relationship between the administration department and SSC-ICT. I personally see this as a confirmation of the need for the programme that I have designed with my Secretary-General, which is constantly adapting and implementing. This need has been underlined once again. I will answer the questions of the Chamber on four subjects. First of all, I will address the questions raised in connection with the VenJ Verwant programme and the problems identified in the department. Secondly, I will deal with the role that I played as a Member of Parliament, reflecting as a minister on the role that I took up at the time. I will then turn to the issue of the staff of SSC-ICT and my comments on it. Finally, I come to a number of questions relating to the investigation. I'll start with VenJ Changing. What was that program written for? Its aim is to have a strong direction, to create a strong internal network and to eliminate the breeding set out in the first report and which has emerged again impregnantly in the second report. To this end, a broad board of directors has been set up, involving not only the official summit but also the executive services. A task force has set up policy alternatives, which have looked very widely at all the alternatives that are conceivable within the department. A new steering structure will be introduced in 2017. The management of incidents is structurally improved. There is a monthly director lunch, in which all V and J directors, both in terms of policy and implementation and supervision, participate. In addition, the department has taken a number of important steps in the area of openness and transparency. The aim is to inform and communicate better and more, and to do so proactively, not only externally but certainly internally. There is a different approach to requests in the area of the Public Administration Act. External partners are involved in carrying out an additional test in the way in which the department handles it. Research reports from the WODC are published earlier. From now on, the Chamber will receive an overview of all the reports issued by the Audit Service. For the change program of V and J, a separate site has also been installed on the national intranet. In the meantime, V and J invest in people and behavior, so that professionals can take the space and make improvements in the work. The Secretary-General has personally called on all staff to do so. On the basis of the VenJ Verandert program, a large number of conversation and intervision sessions take place. A social community platform has been set up for all employees of V and J. In 2015, an improved system for management development has already started, also looking at political-administrative sensitivity. The Ministry's policy academy offers training modules addressing political and administrative sensitivity. In addition, the department is working on a long-term vision and a strategic agenda. A strategic unit led by the Secretary-General was set up at the beginning of this year. The Spectrum programme, as it is called, has been launched for the department's new strategic agenda. It will be delivered on 1 July this year. This means that we are working towards greater openness and trust within the organisation. We want to be able to respond much more quickly to developments in society. The department's learning capacity is increased. The breeding is being countered. Social questions are dealt with in full. Politics and society know at an early stage what is going on in the area of the department. The need for the programme has been further underlined by the report of the Oosting Committee II. I can therefore reply to Mr Recourt and Mr Van der Staaij that the programme which started with an intensive problem analysis is being continued with full force within all sections of the department. Twice a year, in the budget and in the accounting, I will inform the Chamber of the progress of the programme. I hope that the improvements we are making will be noticeable in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u344	It's an impressive list. It has already been said that it is precisely with such a programme that the risk of error or at least the risk of error will increase. In what way does the Minister deal with this, both outside and towards the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u345	If mistakes are made, we want to know. That's one thing that's for sure. We do not want a culture that encourages the cover-up of mistakes, the cover-up of errors or the cover-up of errors. This requires openness and transparency. This also requires employees to feel the safety to have those mistakes on the table if mistakes occur. Mr Van der Staaij rightly said: it is and remains human work. Where people work, and in my case that's a lot of people, mistakes will be made. We must learn from these mistakes. People must also feel the safety to address those mistakes. As far as I'm concerned, this can go to the highest level in our department. The Secretary-General has set up an open channel with the organisation on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u346	When the Oosting II report is published, officials are very strongly on a personal basis with photos etc. I've been in the picture. If mistakes come up again, I can imagine an individual official thinking: ho, I don't want my head in the newspaper like that. Has that been considered, has that been discussed? How's this gonna be fixed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u347	I myself will not go into the action of individual officials in this debate in any way. That doesn't suit me as a minister. Officials cannot defend themselves, especially in public. They are not part of the political debate. The responsibility for the functioning of the official summit as a whole or of individual officials rests with me and I will not comment on the substance of the matter. I am well aware that Mr Recourt raises a point. It is very important that, when mistakes are made, responsibility ultimately comes to one person, and that is the Minister. I'll take that responsibility, too. I cannot prevent media attention from being paid to things that are not going well. I cannot and will not accept that responsibility, but that is not what Mr Recourt means either. As far as I am concerned, the responsibility really rests with only one person, and that is with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u348	During Oosting's second investigation, someone reported to me, and in his wake others who were even too afraid to request the e-mail address from the Oosting Committee within the Ministry. They wanted to tell us things and were afraid that would be traced. They may have had some faith in getting things out. They came to me and I passed them on to the Oosting Committee. I wonder what the Minister actually thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u349	We have made a very strict separation between the Oosting II Committee and the department, precisely because of this point. The committee had its own e-mail address on its own server, with which fully trusted information could be shared. When this kind of signal comes out, I think it is absolutely necessary to ensure that we create the atmosphere that is needed as soon as possible, so that people no longer have to turn to a Member of Parliament, but simply can understand themselves directly with the organisation. That is exactly what I mean in the direction of Mr Recourt. Our organization should function in such a way that everyone feels free to turn to his supervisor if he himself has made a mistake or if he sees others making a mistake, because he knows that it will be handled carefully. That is what the Secretary-General stands for, and that is what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u350	That is an important noise, because I found it very worrying that people should turn to me because they were too afraid to ask in the Ministry how they should address the committee. I've been leading people through and, as I understand it, there's been contact with them. I think it is an important signal that the Minister should give some consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u351	Thank you to Mrs Van Toorenburg for bringing this up, because I also think it is important. I have spoken to the Oosting Committee several times in the course of the investigation. One of the points in those talks was this point. I had also promised the Chamber that I would ask: is there any report? We brought the whistleblower scheme to the attention of the employees. The question that was raised was: is it being used? Are there any people who come forward to report that a miscarriage has occurred? When the committee told me that she hadn't received so many reports, I understand from the report that it was finally thirteen. I recorded a video message and had it distributed over the internet. I would like to stress once again: I really expect all of you to feel completely free, on the basis of the whistle-blower scheme and because we really want you to cooperate, to make all available information available to the committee in confidence and in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u352	The Minister lists a whole process of change, a whole programme of change. Such a programme consists of structures and management language, but how credible is it to think that this minister will succeed in pursuing these changes within his ministry, his department? People, employees really look at the leader. How integer, how reliable is it? After all these blunders, I wonder if it's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u353	That's gonna have to teach time. On day one I arrived at the department I had to make a number of decisions. I didn't do that because I was already aware of the problem at the time, but because I felt that this would be the best way to function as a minister. One example is that I meet almost every morning with my entire official summit on topical and urgent subjects. What's going on that day and what's been going on over the last few days? What are the main lines and how do we solve the problems with each other? That did not happen structurally in the years before, but I found it very logical to do the work in that way. Mr Bontes knows that I have also visited all the departments of my department, and I will continue to do so. I really like that, but I hear a lot of them too. That's how I got a lot of new ideas. People find it very exciting when there is a minister in their office, but on the other hand it is also greatly appreciated. I will do everything in my power to continue to play my part on this basis, supported by the clear but also harsh conclusions of the Oosting Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u354	But still... there's something lingering around this minister. Today we had again the example of a draft letter that was lost. There's something lingering around this minister of things black paint and cover things up. I am also thinking of the heavy role played by the Minister in the cabinet letter sent to the Chamber. He has had the hand in many changes in the letter, which has also led to the Parliament being misplaced. Even former Minister Opstelten was put on the wrong track. If you've played such a heavy role in all sorts of things and have had to apologize so many times in the Chamber, how can you look like a credible leader to those hundreds of thousands of people? That's what it takes to really change things. A visit to the departments is a nice story, but I'd like to hear a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u355	Perhaps it is a good thing that Mr Bontes should come and see and walk along. He is very welcome to go through such a board once and to see for himself how that goes. The work of a minister continues eighteen hours a day, and Mr Bontes necessarily sees only a limited part of it. It would be very good, because it suits our department to be open and transparent. Mr Bontes is very welcome to see in person how this minister takes on his role within the department. He can then make his own judgement on this. I'd like to put two things right. The Oosting Committee looked very explicitly at the question of how the Chamber was informed about the whole issue of Oosting. The Oosting Committee also looked at my letters and comments and, of course, what the Minister has done. Mr Bontes now gives the impression that I would have contributed to the wrong or less correct information of the Chamber. That suggestion is unjustified, because of course it has not been found by the Oosting Committee. The committee would certainly have done that if it had been.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u356	I suggest the Minister move on. Mr Bontes has an open invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u357	Yes, not only Mr Bontes but also the other members of the Chamber are very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u358	I would like to do the interruptions in two, because the last block got a little out of hand. Besides, you all have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u359	Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether, in the view of the Minister, there is a culture of looking away and amnesia. The Prime Minister has already said a great deal about this, but I think we must note that the conclusions of both the Eastern Committee I and the Eastern Committee II are serious. These conclusions are also a real reason for a structural change in policy. This change has now been implemented, and this shows that the urgency of the change programme is absolutely confirmed. Mr Verhoeven asked if there would be another chapter. That chapter's already there. Mr Bontes has already referred to it. This applies not only to me but also, of course, to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and the relationship between the directors and the administration are an integral part of the change programme, as indicated in the various examples in the letter I sent to the Chamber on 2 March of this year. Maybe I can refer Mr Verhoeven to that. Mr Recourt asked about the balance between security and justice. Is that gonna be taken care of? I have listened carefully to the comments made by Mr Segers about the name of the ministry, but one thing is certain: I really assume that security and justice are connected. A rule of law cannot exist without guaranteeing security and a state without the rule of law can never be safe for people. That means that this balance is important to me on a daily basis. He's expressing himself in every possible way. We want to reduce crime effectively, and that is the task that Mr Van Oosten has once again endorsed, but this must always be done within the framework of the rule of law. That is what we hold debates on a regular basis. It is precisely on that balance that I can be addressed, because I really think there should be. One cannot exist without the other. A country can never be a rule of law if citizens are not safe and a rule of law cannot exist if the basic security of the population is not provided for. Mr Krol said that he saw the division of the department as a solution to all the problems. I would particularly like to refer to what the Oosting Committee has said about this. It has made it very clear that the pressing problems raised in its report could also have arisen in a small department. The size of the department doesn't have to cause it in itself. I don't see that relationship myself. There is no doubt that between now and March next year, for example, this issue could be followed up in depth; I have also listened to Mr Recourt on this issue. I promised the First Chamber, in response to a motion, that I would allow my thoughts on that. That's what I'm doing for the summer recess. Mr Recourt also spoke about combating island culture and preventing the culture of fear. I have indicated how this is changed in the VenJ program. I come to the second part, my involvement as a Member of Parliament in the letter of 3 June and the role I played from the Chamber at the request of the former Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u360	I'm gonna ask you another question on the last block. That question concerns the appointment of Mr Cloo as Secretary-General. This was done by the minister's predecessor. Yesterday, former Minister Klaas de Vries at Nieuwsuur said that this was a political appointment. He thought that was a fundamental error. He said that this is blocking something in the contact between the Secretary-General and the Minister. "A civil servant is not here to keep the minister out of the wind. That's not right." So he didn't think that was really possible. How does the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u361	I respond to this in accordance with the answer to the question that was also asked as part of the set of 137 questions that we answered last week. In the replies we have indicated how the appointment took place. We have written that it has taken place in the usual way and has been sealed by the Council of Ministers, and that we do not go into individual cases of individual officials for the reason I have just outlined. That is why they cannot defend themselves, they are not part of the debate, and the Minister always has responsibility for an appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u362	I am not asking for an opinion on the Secretary-General, I am asking for an opinion on the appointment by the previous minister of a senior official of a particular political colour, a former minister in public says: that was a political appointment; that was a mistake. I ask the Minister's response to that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u363	That question was asked as part of the 137 questions: how did this appointment come about? The answer was: through the usual procedure, accompanied by the ABD, the General Administrative Service, and sealed by the Council of Ministers. That's the answer I have to give. I would like to leave the comments of a former minister on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u364	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u365	Then I come to the point of my involvement as a Member of Parliament. A number of Members have already said a few things about this. Above all, a great deal has been said by myself in the debate that took place in December. At that time, I indicated in my introduction that I felt I should have drawn the line earlier from the involvement of a Member of Parliament in advising at the request of a Minister, as was the case in this case. I said at the time that I should have done so at least on 4 March, when that draft press release came on the table. I also said in my introductory speech that perhaps I should have done it earlier, namely when I advised the Minister once in a while on matters relating to this issue. I also made it very clear in that debate that I had given written advice to the Minister. Mr Buma specifically asked me about this at some point. My perception back then was that I did it from my integrity. In all honesty, I say that I also did it from some concern I had about the way in which the answer to the Chamber took place. Mr President, you may remember, but many of the spokesmen will be sure that there was a lot of discussion about that at the time. If I look back on, for example, the letter of 3 June and my comments on it, I am fully aware that, in retrospect, I should have said much earlier: I am not going to take that advice in this way. Mr Recourt rightly said that one of the limits you always have to have is whether you are still free to find what you think. I myself, but also when I look back now, never had the feeling, with any advice whatsoever, that that advice would have restricted my freedom as a Member of Parliament. I have always felt that I could play my role as a Member of Parliament in complete freedom, also on the basis of the advice I have given. When we look at my advice and what was finally taken over by the Minister, an important conclusion is that the Minister himself took his own role very seriously at the time. He did that by not taking over a very large part of the suggestions. I think that was appropriate. In the discussion report of the Oosting Committee, therefore, I said that I really believe that it was and always remains the responsibility of the Minister to do what he does with such suggestions. I myself believe that I should have drawn that line earlier and I also agree with those who say that, in view of my role, I should have done so differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u366	Before I give the floor to the Members of Parliament, the following. This point is an important part of this debate. Does the Minister have any further comments on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u367	I still have some technical questions. I would like to add one more thing to what I said earlier, because then the spokesmen can take it right away. I have been asked what reflection I, as a minister, am taking out of this dossier. It is important that I indicate on this point, given the development of this dossier and the way in which I have acted as a Member of Parliament, that I myself, as a minister, will at least be much more careful and even more careful about the question: how does sounding take place? That probe is taking place is a fact. It is also a fact that coordination is taking place. But I really think that as a minister, you should reflect the role of MPs differently. I've already done that, and that's just the way it is. You should not ask for advice on specific topics in such a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u368	The Minister was rather reluctant in the written reply, saying that he might have had to draw that line earlier. But am I to be told that he is now saying: this has been wrong; I should never have rewritten that letter of 3 June 2014, the 25th concept, to myself like this? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u369	In a way, yes. I'm saying here that I think I should have drawn that line sooner. That also means that I should have said earlier: I will stop consulting and I will not go into it. The rewriting of the letter to myself, that semantic discussion, I immediately admit to Mr Van Nispen. But for the sake of purity, it's never been anything but advice. It was advice to the Minister, how I felt that the Chamber could be carefully and correctly informed. I have given those opinions knowing that it was up to the Minister to make his own assessment. That's what happened. The final result on 3 June shows that nothing happened with a lot of comments and a lot of suggestions on my part. That is fine; that is the role that exists between Minister and Member of Parliament. But reflectively, I agree that I should have drawn the line there and crossed that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u370	The Minister says it was only advice, but of course they are not without obligation. Being a MP isn't a game. We're not here at a VVD conference, where you can improve a party colleague's speech. Of course, it doesn't work that way. We are talking here about the search and the monitoring task that we have at this point. This is a deal with a criminal and the fact that the largest group in the Lower House has neglected its task by rewriting a letter to the Chamber. I think the Minister is very reluctant to say that he was merely giving advice and that the Minister was ultimately responsible. Can the Minister fully acknowledge that he should never have done this as a Member of Parliament and that it should never have happened again in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u371	I think I just said that I should have drawn the line earlier and that I crossed that line. That is exactly what Mr Van Nispen asked for. However, I keep saying that the outcome of the final letter was not in line with the proposal. I have made suggestions for the letter and I have said which things I think were absolutely not done well, not even by the Minister. When we look at the letter, we also see that I have been very open about it. I was open to the role that I played then, but with the reflection afterwards, I think I should have drawn that line differently, as I indicated in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u372	I am pleased that the Minister admits in his words that this is a very special piece of work and that it is a very strange way of giving substance to work as a Member of Parliament and to work as a minister. Apparently, the minister gave MPs a lot of space to give advice. The minister says it's just advice, but it was a lot of advice. At least I'd like to raise one. On page 3, the Minister added a whole passage, in which he also recommended that Mr Van der Steur's "advisory" should be made available to those interviewed. I also mentioned this in my contribution. The Minister gave the "advisory" for insufficient reminders. That way you will not in any way contribute to the information position of the Chamber by ensuring that the receipt is found?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u373	Mr Verhoeven would be right if it were not something else. On page 259 of the report of the Oosting II Committee there is a representation of page 13 of Van Brummen's confidential document. I quote a sentence under heading 3: "The investigation leads to the conclusion that (...) there are insufficient documents and reminders to be able to express the value of the seized funds and the amounts transferred at the time of withdrawal." I have therefore proposed that the text of the Van Brummen report be taken over because I saw that another text was being used. One of the criticisms of the Court during that period was that different wordings were always chosen to say the same. If, on behalf of the Minister, there is a report by Mr Van Brummen for the purpose of making this clear, it is important that you take over the literal text; so nothing more and nothing less than what was stated in the report that the Chamber had been consulted. We know how this went afterwards, but we had the hope that it would provide clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u374	We are talking here about a version of a letter with as date or editing moment 27 May. On 27 May, Mr Van der Steur started his infamous track changes and witnessed his reply and witnessed the date of the letter, apparently he already had the research of Mr Van Brummen at his disposal. Is that right? If that is the case, I would find that a very special addition, because that would mean that as a Member of Parliament he already had that report, perhaps Mr Recourt too, so I wonder now when the other Members of Parliament did not have that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u375	That's right. I had indeed been given the report for inspection. I also knew it would be sent to the Chamber. The draft letter also showed that the Minister had already decided to keep the report confidential for inspection. For me it was not, in itself, an obstacle to getting to know the report, because in my opinion that would happen a few days later anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u376	No, Mr Verhoeven, we agreed that we would do the interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u377	The minister just outlined how he could well be the focus of a profound and major cultural change at the Ministry of Justice. For that, you have to breathe, radiate integrity and show it in all aspects of your actions. How does that relate to the fact that he says he crossed a line, that he shouldn't have been so advising and that he shouldn't have been involved in that press release? I welcome the fact that the Minister admits that he has crossed a line in his relationship with the Minister, but how can he at the same time say that he can still be a fine Minister of Justice, even when such a complex cultural change is needed, including integrity and role? Can the Minister explain that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u378	I would like to take this opportunity to explain. I made it clear in the debate in December, of course, that I felt that I should have drawn that line earlier for myself. I have literally said: 'I blame myself for not asking myself that urgent question before'. That is no different than what I am saying now, including in the reflection I have added. I would add that I have the reflection that as a minister, you must ensure that you do not place MPs in that position. So asking that question... you have to be very careful about that. I'd already learned that lesson for myself, and I've done it for myself. Mrs Van Tongeren also asks how my integrity relates to advising. In the end, Mrs Van Tongeren has to judge for herself how she wishes to judge a Member of Parliament as a colleague. I'm standing here today as a minister. I see in the two reports of the Oosting Committee that there is a basis for the necessary process of change. It can also be seen in my interview report. When I arrived, I felt that there was a lack of cooperation and that people found it difficult to talk to each other about each other's work. I started that process of change from day one. We have professionalised this after the arrival of the new Secretary-General. Together with Mr Dijkhoff, we are working to bring about this change. I'm very motivated to do that, because people deserve that. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has also emphasised and that the Oosting Committee also says that this investigation is looking at the official summit, but that the people under it have worked hard with commitment and integrity to do the right thing. That happens day in day out, from morning to late at night, everywhere. I think we should say again in this debate that all the people under my responsibility, from the ICT staff, whom I am about to talk about, to the policemen on the street, are working hard and hard. In that I find the motivation to do the right thing and to implement this program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u379	The question was not about the motivation of the minister and the staff. The question was how the minister thought he could be a figurehead. Then you must embody the change you want to bring about. There needs to be more integrity and there needs to be more discussion: "Can we share something with Members of Parliament or not? Can I have this change? How come you didn't give that memo to three other employees, but thought it would be good if you just gave it to one employee?" How can you, as a member of parliament, be the figurehead of a cultural change in a clumsy department? I can't do that, can I? Then you must have someone who is absolutely above it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u380	I honestly don't see that combination. I have just said what I said about the role as a Member of Parliament. The role as minister is to lead a department. I would like to stress that it was not the department that clunked, but that the department stopped clunking. This is evident from the report of the Oosting Committee. Mr Oosting has literally referred to that word as "clumbling." That is why I feel free to repeat that. I wouldn't have chosen that myself. I think it is really important to note in this debate that, for the rest, he finds that all other people are doing their work with commitment and integrity. This applies not only to the people with whom Mr Oosting has met in the context of his research, but also to all those other people. As I have just said, I am fully motivated to fulfil my role in this. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u381	There was a time when then MP Van der Steur was sitting at a meeting in which Mr Roes's discussion with Mr Teeven was discussed. Then there was the border. Then MP Van der Steur said: now I have to leave, because now I am hearing something I do not know as a Member of Parliament. Why wasn't that red line in the Van Brummen report? Why didn't it apply to that letter that was rewritten? Then you were also sent information that you had not received as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u382	It was very important to me that the Van Brummen report should be sent to the Chamber in confidence. You can see that in the draft letter. Otherwise, of course, I would have been in that. At the request of the Minister, I commented on the letter as I did. I indicated that I should have drawn a line there earlier and that I should not have done so. I have indicated that, as a minister, I will not just leave that question with a Member of Parliament. I think that is the answer to Mr Segers' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u383	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister indicates that he has crossed a line, rather than these track changes show. At the same time, the Minister says it never silenced him. How is that possible when you write along, when you cross out an amount and make text suggestions, when you say, "I wonder if the information is still coming out all the way" and when you ask all kinds of questions? When that letter comes, you're compromised, right? Then you're all part of the writing process, aren't you? Then you cannot ask the critical questions that you, as a Member of Parliament, have the duty to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u384	At least that's not how I experienced it myself. That's what I indicated at the beginning. At that time, as a Member of Parliament, it was extremely clear to me what that relationship was like. You can give advice whatever you want, you can make suggestions whatever you want, you can tune and probe, all fine, but at the end of the day you just fulfil your role as MP. I didn't feel obstructed in that. That is exactly why I say in the reflection that I should have done it differently, because I understand that Mr Segers is asking that question. That is why I really think I should have done it differently, as I indicated in the first debate. That's my reflection as a Member of Parliament. It's right here in the middle. The Chamber is now speaking to me in my role as Minister. As Minister, reflecting on this dossier, I should never put Members of Parliament in the position of entering the conflict. That's my job, my responsibility. For me, there has never been any doubt as to where the responsibilities lie. I also mentioned this in the discussion report of the Oosting Committee: whatever I had written down, the Minister must do with it and let it go; whatever happens to it, I can always play my role as a Member of Parliament. I've never felt obstructed in that. Mr Segers will have to accept that from me. He also knows me, I think, as someone who has taken on a fairly autonomous role in the Chamber in recent years, when I was still playing that role. I have never felt this obstacle, just as Mr Recourt has pointed out. You just have the complete freedom to do what you want, because appointments aren't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u385	There's something really crazy going on. Just now, Mr Verhoeven asked how the passage on Fred Teeven's memories was rewritten by MP Van der Steur. I was wondering that myself. I thought: did MP Van der Steur then consult with Fred Teeven himself or would he just think this sounded better? 'Cause I didn't like either of those. The term "no such memories" has been changed by rewriting MP Van der Steur to "insufficient memories." If I understand correctly, then MP Van der Steur did not have access to Van Brummen's report and the rest of the Chamber. Did I really hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u386	Yeah, there's no other way. The letter shows that I'm referring to it. I got the report for inspection, by the way. I didn't get it at my disposal. Then, on the basis of that report, I noticed that there was a discrepancy between what the department wrote about the memories and what was actually in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u387	What kind of procedure is that, if a coalition party MP gets information that the rest of the Chamber doesn't have and then he's gonna influence a letter? That's extremely strange, isn't it? I would like to raise the question of how this minister is actually acting as a minister. Would he do that again, or does he say: that is completely out of the question, so we will never do that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u388	I think I have given a comprehensive answer to that. The reflection that I have as a minister, I think, is very important in this debate, because in that capacity I am here to do so is that I would do so differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u389	I'll come back to that moral compass. Are there any alarm bells in his head when the Minister, then MP, wrote that letter so drastically, based on investigations that the Chamber had been asking for so long, and was not his thought: I should not deal with this? That happened later, but why were those alarm bells so silent in the head of MP Van der Steur at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u390	It is, of course, difficult to answer a question about the MP Van der Steur as a minister. I happen to be one and the same, so I can try. I have already said that this is exactly the same point, and I think that I should have drawn that line earlier. I have never felt, as I said to Mr Segers, in that whole process that the freedom to complete my function as a Member of Parliament was being taken from me and that somehow I got myself into trouble with it. That's never been my intention. In retrospect, looking back, I think I should have done it differently, but I have indicated that several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u391	The Minister has indicated this on several occasions. The question is exactly how someone's compass works at that time. Do I hear the Minister say that at the time he really didn't feel like he was doing something he shouldn't have? Wasn't there an alarm bell in his head at the time: I shouldn't interfere with this now, I'm informing the Chamber about something I know and the Chamber doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u392	No. I wasn't informing the room. I gave advice to the Minister, who was responsible for informing the Chamber. Mrs Van Toorenburg pretends that all my suggestions have been taken on board one-on-one. With all due respect, but if we just look at the letter, we can see that from a very large part of what I have suggested nothing has come into the letter. That is a complete freedom of choice for the Minister. I didn't go in there, and I couldn't go in there either. That division of responsibility was clear at the time and is still clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u393	We are talking about a letter that has worked for almost two months. That may be forgotten now. This letter started around the beginning of April and was sent to the Chamber in June 2014. There are 30 versions of that letter, at least 30. Mr Van der Steur has sent one version of "No. 25" to the Chamber. This shows that he has influenced a letter of inquiry in a far-reaching way. It was a letter of great political pressure and a very hard work to ensure that one way or another there would be no debate with Minister Opstelten because it would be harmful. That's what you read all the time. He did that on the basis of an investigation that the entire room didn't have, and he did. On the basis of that investigation, he's been editing that letter of inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u394	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u395	It's kind of weird that that's how it happened, isn't it? Isn't that a very far-reaching influence on a process where everyone was looking for a receipt that wasn't found?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u396	I think I have answered this question several times now along the same lines. One important point, however, is that at the time I was given access to the Van Brummen report, it was quite clear to me that this would be kept confidential for inspection by the Chamber. That was an essential part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u397	At the end of the letter, then MP Van der Steur added that a maximum effort was made to ensure that the search was conducted as well as possible. He uses all these things, while in that same letter, on the basis of a report unknown to the rest of the Chamber, he states that there were insufficient memories. The rest of the Chamber didn't know that whole report back then. I'm really asking the Minister this right now. He says: I'm going to be the man who's going to start the change program at the Ministry of Security and Justice; I'm going to be the one who's going to break that culture. How does he reconcile that with the fact that, as a Member of Parliament, he has had a profound influence on a letter that was crucial to finding the receipt, which we have been talking about for two years now? Can the Minister comment on that? How does that rhyme with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u398	Mr Verhoeven is now tying up a number of things that do not relate well to each other. The letter as it is, in itself, had no influence on the find of the receipt. The letter was intended to inform the Chamber about Van Brummen's investigation. That investigation was now available. We now know how this investigation has gone. We didn't know that at the time. With regard to Van Brummen, I proposed that A. be established that the maximum effort had been made. I do not see the relationship Mr Verhoeven is making with the VenJ Verwacht programme, which I have been working on for over a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u399	I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u400	Then I come to the questions about the investigation itself. Mrs Van Tongeren asked: Why is Mr Teeven not even well-sawed in his role as a former prosecutor, so she literally said about the deal? She asked: why didn't that happen; why wasn't an independent investigation done? Mrs Van Tongeren would do the Oosting I committee some injustice if she said it was not an independent investigation, but she certainly did not mean it to be. The Oosting I Committee spoke with Mr Teeven about his role as a former prosecutor. I don't know the atmosphere of that conversation. I wasn't there, but I assume there was a strong talk. I also think that the conclusions of the Oosting I Committee can be described fairly firmly, including those on the content of the deal. At this point, I feel that there has been a thorough, high-quality, very robust and independent investigation into everything that has to do with the agreements made with Cees H. Mr Verhoeven asked me: how does the Minister look back on the information provided to the Oosting Commission in the first instance? I can only say the following, also referring to what I myself discussed with the Oosting Committee, but also to what she said about the research as such. We have made several calls to get all the information that has been available. The committee itself says that it has had access to a very large amount of information, but as a result of the broadcasting of Newsuur and the report of the Oosting II Committee of Inquiry, we must also note that not all the information was initially put on the table. I myself find that extremely disappointing, because I would have liked to limit it to one study by the Oosting Committee. I indicated that in the first instance. I agree with Mr van der Staaij, who has indicated: let us ensure and hope that the Eastern Committee III will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u401	I'd still like to see how far the Minister is going with his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u402	I have four more questions and then I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u403	I would suggest that you answer those questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u404	Then I come to the last topic: the employees of SSC-ICT. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked why on 10 April she had already started writing about Van Brummen's research while the research had not even been shut down at that time. That is because the letter which began on 10 April was originally intended to contain the five parliamentary questions, which Mr Opstelten had promised to answer at a later date during the debate on 13 March. So the letter started as an answer to parliamentary questions. Next, Ms Berndsen-Jansen of D66 focused on the transmission to the Chamber of the results of an inquiry into bank data in the context of a search in the financial administration and in the public prosecutor's ICT services on 9 April. On 9 April, I believe that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, supported by Mrs Van Toorenburg, asked: can you ensure that this information is provided? I remember Mrs Van Toorenburg asking about the lawyers at the time. One of the suggestions I made at the time was to include in the letter something about the lawyers. That was not taken over by the Minister at the time. That was the reason: on 9 April that question came; then the letter was opened on 10 April to answer the request of 9 April. That doesn't make any sense. But later that letter, as we know by now, evolved in a lot of versions to what it eventually became on 3 June. I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u405	We agreed you'd finish first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u406	Oh, yeah. Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Van Toorenburg asked why the memo of 10 March did not reach the Oosting I committee. The committee itself has done extensive research into this. It is clear that it did not end up there, and I note that it should have. That is also why on 27 January, when I myself took note of that memo, I verified whether it had been sent to the Oosting Committee. That turned out to have happened the day before in accordance with my instructions to forward immediately any information that would become known. That is what has happened, and that is how it ended up with the Oosting II Committee. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked why Acting Minister Blok did not report that memo to the successor at the time. The Oosting Committee also said a few things about this at the hearing. In the reconstruction of the process, Mr Oosting found no reason to believe that he should have done more than conclude that it had been transferred to the Ministry of Security and Justice. Mr Blok was allowed to assume that, as the report states, it was in good hands in the discussion report, which is known to be in good hands. Then I want to move on to the Shared Service Center ICT, but I'm waiting because it's a new block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u407	I have a question about the draft letters. I am very surprised that a request is made on 9 April to conduct an investigation, but the essence of the draft letter on 17 April states that there are no back-ups anywhere, while Van Brummen does not start his search for the receipt until 23 April. Does the Minister think it's normal that you write in advance that you can't find it, while the investigation has yet to begin? Can the Minister promise that he'll never go back to research in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u408	With regard to the latter question, I would refer to the conclusions of the Oosting I report. This opinion is also based on the assessment of Mr Van Brummen's research. I fully endorse that conclusion, so the answer to that question is yes. For the rest, it is of course complicated, because I too should simply base myself on what is in the report on the whole process. The Chamber will have read in the report that I didn't have any involvement until the end of May. At that time I was certainly not aware of the history of the final product that I was facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u409	So I assume the Minister also finds it very strange that, if the Chamber really wants to know something, you write to the Chamber that you can't find it, that you don't know it and that there are no backups, but then a week later you appoint an investigator to see what's actually going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u410	I will look for the government's second term in a moment to see exactly what is stated in the report on the history of the letter. Obviously, I wasn't involved, so I don't have any science of my own. I can refer to the report, but I'll take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u411	I'd love to. I have a wonderful timeline for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u412	In my term, I asked whether any letters were written by Members of Parliament from the time this Minister took office or whether they had been advised by them in a way that this Minister now says: it should not have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u413	I indicated in my letter and in the answer to the questions that there are contacts between ministers and MPs. These contacts concern the adjustment of parts and the information of spokesmen. They can sometimes be coalition spokesmen, but very often they are also opposition spokesmen. It can be about motions, the implementation of motions, amendments, policy letters, accountability letters, in short: it can be about anything and everything. I have made it very clear that my reflection as a minister is that I do not want to put a Member of Parliament in the same position as that in which I have been a Member of Parliament. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u414	I'd be so happy if I just heard "no." Has any letter been written by Members of Parliament since the Minister took office or has he been advised as to what the Minister has just renounced? With a simple "no" I'm completely satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u415	I think I've already answered that question. I have indicated that since I became a minister, I have not placed such decisions and such questions with Members of Parliament. As can be seen from the letter of 28 May, Members of Parliament did not in this way write letters from the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u416	I have another question about cooperation with the Oosting Committee. The Minister said: it is a pity that not everyone has cooperated, but so be it. I think there's more to that, especially when it comes to the Ministry's summit. On June 4, after the letter saying "there was nothing, there is nothing and we can find nothing" was sent to the Chamber, Mr Hoogendoorn raised his finger, went looking for the backups, found it and reported it to Mr Cloo. This knowledge suddenly appears to be known at the time when the predecessor of the current minister quits. That was not shared with the Oosting Committee in the first round. What is the Minister's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u417	That question has just been asked. In this case, it's about the memo. I believe that this memo should have been made available to the Oosting I Committee. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u418	No. This is not an additional question, Mr President; let me clarify. It's not about the memo. It is about the fact that Mr Hoogendoorn reports that there is a backup of the data from the files that are being searched for. He found out on 4 June, at least shortly after the letter of 3 June. He reports that to Mr. Cloo, who forgets that. In spring 2015, it becomes clear that Mr Roes and Mrs Stolk are aware of this, because they are calling Mr Hoogendoorn. In other words, it was more widely known. This is not reported to Mr Oosting when he conducts research. You may say that you have left a video message and that you have encouraged people to report mainly, but this is about the top of the ministry and about the crux of the investigation, and it is not reported. What is the Minister's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u419	I have already indicated the following. This is a very specific question about the functioning of individual officials. I have indicated that, from my responsibility, I cannot make any announcements about this, for the simple reason that I would enter into the relationship between an employer and an employee. I understand that this may be disappointing for Mr Segers, but I really do not think I can do that. I am, moreover, fully responsible for the fact that the information did not end up there. That's clip-and-ready. However, I am not going to have a public conversation with my people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u420	Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u421	No, Mr. Chairman, I just had a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u422	Yeah, that's right. You had an explanatory remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u423	This is round two. It is about a very essential point. The minister says I'm responsible for it. On that responsibility, I address him. It was crucial information. The whole report is about that. Otherwise we can stop the debate now. If I can't talk about the report, about what it's brought up and about who knew what when, then we might as well stop. I don't want to stop. I appeal to the Minister for his responsibility for what happened at the ministry summit. Crucial information has not been reported. I would like to ask the Minister's opinion on this. I am not asking about the functioning; it is not a function interview. It is a crucial part of the entire timeline: this information has not been reported to Oosting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u424	Mr Segers is asking for a judgment. I cannot give you that, because that is what I would like to do in the assessment of the behaviour of individual officials. However, let us be clear what VenJ Change stands for: available information is shared, people jointly bear responsibility for their policies and for the problems they experience, without saying "this is my tube, I'm ready in my tube, I put this there and that's it". That's what VenJ Verandert stands for. I want to make that change in the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u425	It is an important point that Mr Segers has just made. I don't think it's a clear answer either. Let me ask another question, about the 25th concept of the letter of 3 June 2014 which was rewritten by MP Van der Steur. There were 18 comments, such as "what is the function of this sentence?', "Why not delete this?" And so on. Has this letter reached the first committee in the East?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u426	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u427	Has the concept rewritten by MP Van der Steur reached the Oosting I committee and therefore been examined? Has it therefore played a role in the investigation of the Oosting I Committee in 2015 into the provision of information to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u428	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u429	If the Minister answers yes, I wonder how it is possible that there are so many new things that we did not know before. I find that very remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u430	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u431	I have linked the question to this: how is it possible that there is only now so much crucial information? We are only now discussing this in the fourth debate we are discussing. I want an explanation from the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u432	I think this is a question about the way the Oosting Committee works. I can't answer that question. I made it very clear in the debate in December that I gave advice at the request of the Minister. In reply to Mr Buma's questions, I indicated that I did so orally and in writing. I indicated that I felt that I should have drawn boundaries earlier, at least on 4 March at the press release, but perhaps earlier when I advised. That's what I said. That's literally in the Acts. That's the reflection that goes into that. The Oosting Committee has had access to the entire dossier. I confirmed again this morning that this document was in the file of the Director-General of Law and Law Enforcement and was therefore part of the examination of the Oosting I Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u433	I have to get over my surprise and think carefully about whether what the Minister is saying is true. I can hardly imagine that such a crucial letter with such crucial adjustments that has played such a crucial role in finding the receipt has not been in Oosting I. Anyway, if the Minister says so, fine. We were just talking about this letter and the fact that the Minister had already received the investigation and could edit the letter on the basis of that knowledge. I think that this letter is very important when it comes to the whole work and reconstruction of not finding that receipt. Not for nothing that came back in the report of Oosting II. I asked at the beginning of the debate whether it was possible to get the other version, with notes, suggestions, editorial additions and other additions from the then MP Van der Steur. Then I got a note back saying: it can't be because of a failed restore. Given the crucial role this letter plays and the crucial information that is at least included in this version with improvements, I ask the following. Is Minister Van der Steur willing to reopen his Second Chamber account once to see if we can get that letter along that road? After all, he sent that letter from his Second Chamber account, so we're going to check the shipping side. In this way we can still get access to the second version with notes by Mr Van der Steur. I see that the chairman looks difficult and I understand that, because we have to go to dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u434	I always look hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u435	I've got that on me, too, so that's where we'll find each other. I really think that we should do everything we can to get that second version on the table, given the crucial role this letter plays in the situation over the last two years. I would therefore ask the Minister simply to give the Chamber a generous answer and to see whether the reopening of his Second Chamber account is possible to find the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u436	As far as I am concerned, there is no objection to that. I propose that we do so during the suspension between this deadline and the next deadline. I would like specifically to say that I have received quite a number of assignments from the Chamber this afternoon, including from the D66 Group, to bring forward to the JHA Council in Luxembourg early tomorrow morning. So I'm kind of on the black side in that respect... what do you call it? I'm sitting on the fink rope and not on black seed. I've got a plane ticket for 7:30. But I'm not gonna make it. The last plane leaves at 9:30. Maybe I'll go get it. I'd like to do that because I want to discharge my duties. I have no objection to having a look at this in the Chamber. I don't know if that's possible. I don't know what that arrangement is like. So I have no objection. If that can provide a solution...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u437	That's what we're gonna find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u438	...I don't want to be difficult about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u439	We've also got...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u440	But I would like to make one point, and I think that is important, perhaps also for the final weighing. The Oosting Committee looked very explicitly at this letter. The assignment was to see how the Chamber was informed. In this context, the Committee also mentions this letter with comments and notes, but has not seen any reason to find anything else. I therefore do not entirely agree with Mr Verhoeven's conclusion that this letter would have been crucial in finding the receipt. In any case, this conclusion is not supported by the examination of the Oosting II Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u441	I am pleased that the Minister wishes to respond to my request and I am happy to see that happen in the time between this first term and the second. Very briefly, I have a reaction to the Minister's last sentences. This letter has played a crucial role. It was about not being able to find the tapes. The Prime Minister repeated in the debate in December 2015, I think 50 times, that the reason that the two previous rulers had to resign was that a route had been closed that they had previously written was no longer passable. That phrase is also in this letter. So this letter is crucial, and any additions to information on reports that the rest of the Chamber didn't have are also crucial. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister at least meets the request to find that second version, because we really need to take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u442	We also need to see if we can do it internally here, because that requires the Automation Service. It's being sorted out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u443	It will not be up to the ICT people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u444	I don't know. That's what we're asking them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u445	I'd be happy to leave that to your room. Let me point out that this letter is crucial. Mr Verhoeven is quite right about that. My suggestions have been assessed by the Oosting Committee and, as can be seen from the report and from the comments made by the Oosting Committee, it is not concluded that my suggestions have in any way played a crucial role in the way in which the Chamber has been informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u446	In addition to Mr Verhoeven's request, I ask the Minister if he remembers whether he did so through his Second Chamber account or via his private e-mail. We have a minister who has used his private account a great deal for government affairs. That account is closed by now, I hear. If the minister knows through which account he did it, we should look into that account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u447	That's a good question. I'm assuming that's the kind of business I've been doing from my e-mail address at the Chamber. I think that's how it happened. Then I'll get to SSC-ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u448	Will you come to a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u449	Yeah, that's the last of it, but it's very important. Let me say first of all that I found it incredibly annoying from my discussion report, that in the debate of 16 December 2015, I would have blamed the ICT employees who were no longer working in our department, but in Home Affairs and Kingdom relations, for not finding the receipt in 2014. I would also like to say here, as I have said to them, that the Secretary of State, who said the same thing as I said, but in a more diplomatic manner, and so we are known and I have never wanted to lay the blame on any individual employee or department. Mr Klaver asked me why the Minister resigned. I indicated at that time on the basis of which elements that had happened. I didn't hear anything else on 9 March 2015 and I've now understood many others with me than that the final success of finding the receipt was due to the hiring of external specialists. On 20 March I missed the sentence in the answers to the parliamentary questions that Mr Blok had sent as my predecessor on the day I was appointed Minister. For example, I explained this to the employees of SSC-ICT and de facto to the people who did the real, good work. I talked to him myself. In the sense that I didn't notice that the team that worked on finding the receipt consisted of internal and external specialists, but also external specialists who were definitely part of the team, who thus already belonged to that team in June 2014. I find it incredibly annoying that that misunderstanding has arisen. For this reason, I first asked the Oosting Committee, which, of course, was in contact with the department rather than myself, if any sense of displeasure had arisen, also because in Nieuwsuur the suggestion was raised that those crucial e-mails, which led to the start of the Oosting II Committee, would have been sent out out of anger about my comments. I am very pleased that the Oosting Committee then indicated to myself and later in the press conference that there was no evidence of anger among the staff, for the simple reason that they did not see the whole debate in 2015. Later on, people learned about this remark, because of the broadcast of Nieuwsuur and I naturally felt it was very important that once the Oosting Committee was finished I could visit these people to talk about it. I did. I explained to them where that misunderstanding came from. On the one hand, there was the communication in March 2015 and on the other hand there was the fact that on the day of my appointment I had missed the parliamentary questions. It was only a very small part, but that does not matter. I should have known, and I think it is right that I explained to them what the misunderstanding was. I've complimented them and I've been told how they did it. I am deeply impressed by the work that has been done and the appreciation and admiration I have also expressed. After that, I heard on request from the Deputy Director of the SSC-ICT, who was also very pleased with the visit. So I am also glad that I was able to rectify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u450	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u451	That is what I wanted to say. I have one last point that is not so much about SSC ICT as about technology. Mr Segers asked what had been done with the recommendation of the Heritage Inspectorate. I can report that in 2015 the administration carried out a quick scan in the field of information management. The results give direction to the responsible management to work systematically on improvements. In 2016 this quickscan of the information system will be performed in the other parts of Security and Justice. Also, the Public Prosecutor's Office, which was mentioned in the report of the Heritage Inspectorate, has taken a number of measures to improve the management of archives. There will be a central organisation and a centre of expertise for the editing and cleaning of business-related paper archives and associated digital data and preparations will be made to also edit the non-business-related archive. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u452	Thank you. Then I have an announcement to make. We quickly informed the Automation Service whether it is possible to look at an account, as Mr Verhoeven wanted. I understand that people are working on that, but it's not gonna work out tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u453	I'll come back to the ICT guys. The Minister said in the Chamber that there was the cause of the mistake. It wouldn't have been made if we had the right people for ICT. I find it strange, because what does this minister do? In a rather impressive way, so I can only see it. He gets in the car and drives up to these people and goes into their office and says that it wasn't meant to be. Meanwhile, he keeps saying here that he finds it annoying that he has given rise to the suggestion that there was the mistake. I don't think this is the way we should do things like that. Here in the Chamber we may be able to talk to each other in a conflict, then we will go in together and we will make up for it, but I do not think that a minister with his subordinates can have this kind of conversation. I almost find it embarrassing, but I would like to ask the Minister whether he could not apologize for this sentence he has said here, because this was about ICTs who had just done their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u454	I think you should make sure you clear up any misunderstandings when there are. That's what you do to the people who may have certain feelings about it. I have found that those feelings were not there and that it is very much appreciated that I have been with these people and I have also made it clear that I appreciate their work. In response to Mrs Van Toorenburg, I would like to reiterate that that phrase was, of course, part of a whole answer. That was not the intention at all, and this is reflected in the report of the discussion I had with the Oosting Committee. It was simply a question of why the Minister had resigned and what happened next. I put it unlucky, I assumed it was true what I said, but it didn't add up. The Oosting Committee has therefore rightly said that the remark does not do justice to the efforts of these people, and I have repeated this to them myself. I understand that this is very much appreciated, and that is the end of the matter as far as I am concerned. It has no function to say anything about this in a general sense, if you have already spoken to the people themselves. I attach particular importance to the personal relationship with the people of the SSC-ICT and, as the cabinet response showed, I am committed to ensuring that they are better part of the department. What is special is that I have noticed with SSC-ICT that they feel very well part of the department, while the Oosting Committee notes that it is not the other way around. There's a job there that I'll take in, too. I must say it was a very special visit. When you hear the enthusiasm of these people, who in an incredibly complicated way, in ten steps, as the Oosting Committee very carefully describes, have managed to get the information out of the water on a dinosaur system, they deserve only respect and appreciation. I explicitly told them that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u455	This minister has often had to apologize. I find it painful that he's going to do it once too little. I do think this is part of his role. I do not think that we can settle this discussion here as equals. The minister can't just go there and say, "You're doing a good job." This minister has a certain role and responsibility. He's a ruler. That requires a different attitude, which I don't see. I don't see a minister here generously saying: even if it was just a sentence, I should never have done it. I think the Minister should say that. Maybe he doesn't apologize enough once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u456	I understand that Mrs van Toorenburg is saying this, but there was concern about whether people have offended one sentence that was taken from the context of a much wider story, which had a totally different intention than what was later inlaid by third parties. Turns out that didn't even go through the people themselves. This is evident from all sources, including from my conversations with them. I think it's a good idea for you to be a minister when you're in touch with people yourself. If Mrs Van Toorenburg doesn't like that style, so be it. If I feel like I've failed someone, or if people could think that, because there wasn't that intention, then I think I should take care of it myself. That's how I did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u457	It's gonna be a little uncomfortable if we're gonna be politically poor about whether a word should come out or not. But in public, here in the plenary room, first Secretary of State Dijkhoff said: 'it wasn't that complicated if you have the right specialists'. In other words, we didn't have the right specialists. The Minister repeated this by saying: "if they had had the right people on ICT." So it's been said. The minister seems to suggest: they didn't follow and they didn't know, they didn't see the debate so it doesn't matter. I'll give you a very modest, pastoral advice in case the Minister talks to them again. The word "sorry" isn't that hard. You can say, "Excuse me, we shouldn't have said it like that." It's not that hard, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u458	That's exactly what I said. I said I should have known better and I should have known about that Chamber question. I am glad that it has not been offended, at least not as a result of the debate in December 2015. It probably didn't get past them after the broadcast of Newshour, but I haven't been able to see that there have been any serious concerns about it. I thought it was right, because of course I could not go there until after the examination of the Oosting Committee. I did so immediately, for the simple reason that, when you say something like Minister, I think it is appropriate to ask the people themselves, just as Mr Segers says, how they have experienced it and then to praise them for the work they have done. I mistakenly thought it was from externally hired specialists. There are, by the way, but what we thought was wrong; it wasn't right. There are outside specialists, but they've been around for a long time. You can also find something about that, but that is not something for this debate. I believe, as the Oosting Committee rightly said, that the comments did not reflect the commitment of the people. I explained that to them, too. I think that is appropriate, and that should be expected of me. You know, as I say to Mr Segers, that I am prepared to apologize if they need to be made. In general, I know very well when and when to do so. In this case, I had a good conversation with the people. I really appreciate their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u459	I heard from Mr Oosting shortly after his presentation that the Minister went that way. I appreciate that very much; that did me good. That was a good gesture...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u460	I note that we might have had another debate if I had done so earlier. I really thought it was important that the Oosting Committee was fully finished with the investigation and that I could then do my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u461	Sure, but if the minister had just apologized for that statement, we wouldn't have had this whole thing and the inconvenience would have been gone. If the Minister has the opportunity again, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u462	For the record, we had a very good conversation. I've really appreciated it myself. I also explained how it happened. I think that is exactly what Mr Segers is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u463	After the press conference of the Oosting Commission on 25 May, the Minister said in response to questions from journalists: I never accused them, I explained to the ICTs how this misunderstanding could arise, I complimented them on their work, my statement was taken out of context. Does the Minister actually think that he has been wronged, for example by Nieuwsuur, that his statements have been taken out of context and sent out that quote a few times? Does the Minister think he's been wronged?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u464	No, definitely not. You can remind every minister of his words. What I have indicated, including in the discussion report with the Oosting Committee, is that I never intended to lay the blame on anyone. That does not fit a minister and that was not at all the background to the remark. The comment was made at the end of a long debate after the question as to why the Minister took that responsibility. At that time I raised this point in a way that was somewhat different from the reaction of Secretary of State Dijkhoff, who of course did so much more wisely than I did. That's how we know each other. Furthermore, I have no other feelings than those I have just expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u465	I finally hear a bit of self-reflection in that last remark, but I agree with the colleagues who have said that excuses would really have been appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u466	I think a lot of people didn't say that either. I think it's very good that I did what I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u467	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I propose that we continue with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u468	Why don't we have a short dinner break now? Is that because of the rush the minister is in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u469	No, that's also because of a debate that needs to be held next. For this the special delegates from Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten have come special.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u470	I understand that, but I would like to give you the following thought. This is, of course, not an unimportant debate, especially now that there is an unopened part which may not come until tomorrow or later. Are we going to finish this debate very quickly and then come to the conclusion tomorrow that we should reopen the debate? Or is there room to deal with the debate in an orderly manner? Or should we simply postpone the second deadline until next week? I'd like to bring that consideration in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u471	What are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u472	I myself am in favour of a second deadline at a later date, because this delegation seems to be putting pressure on time to ensure that we have to do the second time very quickly, together with the fact that there is also a letter on the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u473	You are proposing that the second time limit of the debate should not be held this evening. What is the later moment at which you wish to continue the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u474	At the moment there is version 2 of the letter that we have collected via the ICT-people of the Dutch Parliamentary Account of MP Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u475	I'm going to see if there's a majority for your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u476	I support that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u477	A good idea to do it carefully at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u478	I, too, support the request. It also means that the Minister can go to the JHA Council in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u479	Congratulations on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u480	I do not support the request. I want to talk about content in the next week, like money for the police and the security chain. I have heard the Minister say that if his account is opened, perhaps a letter will emerge with suggestions he has made. He said it wasn't about the suggestions, it was about the letter. It's been named crucial. On that point, I agree with the Minister, so I see no reason not to finish the second term tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u481	The SP supports the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u482	I'd like to finish it. If there's a letter coming up with everything going on, we'll see each other again, but I'm not assuming that. If the Minister really has to leave in time, that may be a reason, then we shall suspend the debate for a purely organisational reason and not because I would like to leave something hanging over the market. I don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u483	I can make the CDA's words mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u484	We found the answer perfectly clear and do not really need a second deadline. That makes it easy: no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u485	I agree with the CDA's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u486	This means that there is no support for the proposal to keep the second deadline at a later date. So we'll continue with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u487	Madam President, I would like to see ten minutes suspended for a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u488	Ten minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u489	We shall now proceed with the second term of the debate on a further examination by the Oosting Committee. I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union. He has two minutes' speaking time, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u490	Mr. Chairman. Then let me begin, for the sake of safety, by tabling a motion. Well, at least that's what we've done. My motion concerns the digital forgetfulness of the government. This whole affair started with a lost receipt, a receipt that was lost and couldn't be found. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that information management in the Cees H. case was not in order;]] [[Whereas the current Archive Act, including a 20-year transfer period, is no longer in line with current developments;]] [[Calls on the Government to implement the recommendations of the report of the Heritage Inspectorate on the case of Cees H in this calendar year;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the current Archive Act to digital developments and requirements of transparency by, inter alia, significantly reducing the current transmission periods of public sector information,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Recourt, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Van Oosten, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van Toorenburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34362-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u491	Now for the debate, Madam President. It was such a debate, which you estimate in advance that it will not make you very happy. During the debate I did not get very much happier and I am still not very happy. It's very unsatisfactory. Where are we now after three investigations? We are on the verge of not being entirely sure that there can be a fourth investigation. We talked about the exegesis of the involvement of General Affairs and that threatened to become a game of words. We have talked about the borders that the Minister has crossed in his capacity as a Member of Parliament and he has clearly indicated that that border has crossed. Thanks for that, but then we go around that letter a little bit again on the square centimeters. I note that the Ministry of Security and Justice has, in general, suffered serious damage, not by ordinary officials working hard, but by the blundering of the political and administrative summit. I was also annoyed by the fact that the Minister was somewhat opposed when I asked him about this. He did not really want to talk about this, and I find that extremely regrettable. If you step back and wonder where we stand now, you have to conclude that it is not about a letter, textexegesis, a word game or keeping track of changes, but about morality, integrity and truth. It's about trust, trust between Chamber and Cabinet and trust between government, politics and citizens. That confidence is embarrassed and we will have to work hard to regain that trust. We're all gonna have to work on that and in the meantime, we're gonna keep looking at Nieuwsuur. I hope that everyone who is involved in Security and Justice in any way will not only look at Nieuwsuur, but also occasionally in the mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u492	Mr. Chairman. This is the fourth debate on this scandal. In the meantime, it is no longer about the deal with which a criminal has enriched himself and with which society has been deceived, but about the lack of search in the ministry. That search failed, because all kinds of people have not done their best to find out the truth. Did they even want to know the truth? I still don't think so. Let us not forget that thanks to Newsuur journalists we know what is happening and not because of fanatical or thorough search by the coalition parties, the Ministry of Security and Justice or the Ministry of General Affairs. The Prime Minister seems to be playing his own role. There are two bizarre passages about the role of the Prime Minister in the further investigation of Oosting II. It sounds to me like the Prime Minister made up a statement afterwards. I keep my doubts. I have two more questions on this matter. When did the Prime Minister, his adviser, his personal assistant or the Secretary-General first hear that Mr Teeven knew that Opstelten had reported a far too low amount to the Chamber? Does the Prime Minister insist that he never spoke to Teeven about that amount and that he did not know until March 2015 that Opstelten had misinformed the Chamber? In addition, I do not see much self-reflection at the Prime Minister's bar, as I call it, at six years of VVD in the Ministry of V and J: no success at all, an administrative chaos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u493	Do you have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u494	No. The Minister's self-reflection is also thin. Indeed, as a Member of Parliament, I think it is quite important to write a letter to the House of Representatives and later to blame ICT officials as ministers. Fortunately, the Minister will come back to that in this debate. I see him shaking no, but he did. I congratulated him for coming back to it in the debate, while the written reply showed something quite different. It remains unsatisfactory to me that key players do not have sufficient memories in crucial areas. I find this amnesia very disturbing. The question remains: is this it now? Can this book be permanently closed? Do we know everything now? Can it be excluded that we should debate new revelations for the fifth time? It is true that it is about morality and about damaged trust. The SP has serious doubts as to whether the Ministry can get organized under the leadership of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u495	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks would like to see rulers radiating from every pore that they are going to the full for the truth finding. In this debate, we have repeatedly seen our rulers on their most pragmatic side. Sometimes state law gets in the way, sometimes a ruler has to be protected because there might be questions from the Chamber. Let me give you an example. In one sentence, the Prime Minister says: I cannot say anything about what is being discussed in the Trêves Room. The following sentence of this Prime Minister is: the Oosting report has been discussed in detail on several occasions. I would like to propose to these VVD executives to take an example from business. Business has the code Frijns, in which in large parts it is also about integrity. On integrity, it says that you have to be accountable and that you can only manage it if you talk about it continuously with the people involved. That should therefore be done in the Council of Ministers, in the government representatives' meeting, in the political group. Integrity cannot be caught in just a code, nor can it be caught in just judging one's own behavior, because that the rulers act in their own way with integrity, I assume. I agree with Mr Van Nispen's comments on cultural change. A cultural change is very complicated, especially in such a ministry. It's about culture change that not only depends on checking out because it has to be done according to the rules. I've given the memo to my boss, check it out, but also on self-thinking: shouldn't I have done something, do I not go beyond my powers, or do I do too little? Both leaders have just said that they have failed here and there, and then you must be the focus of such a complicated cultural journey. As I said before, I wonder if that's possible. We don't see that coming through. GroenLinks also thinks, as we have said many times before, that merging both departments is a bad idea. We would like it to be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u496	Mr. Chairman. The VVD has said today, and has been saying for a long time: we want to catch bad guys. But we've been working on truth finding for two years now and that's because those same VVDs have frustrated an investigation with forgetfulness and passivity, they don't want to know things. Today, the Prime Minister has shown a selective memory. I've heard him say too many times: I can't remember, but I could just do that, because I didn't need to know everything either. Everyone in this case had their memories, Cloo, Ruff, Block, Bitches, but the Prime Minister does have the crown. That's why this doesn't have a pleasant aftertaste. It is not a cover-up, according to the Oosting Committee, but the strategy of passivity seems to me to be death in the pot for this ministry. In Oosting I, the Prime Minister claimed that General Affairs, of which he is Minister, was not involved in the choice for Van Brummen. We have discussed this in detail. On page 82 of Oosting II you can read that after good consultation with AZ and the MP, Van Brummen was chosen. I ask the Prime Minister once more just to be sure, that is all I can do, whether he has somehow influenced the choice for Van Brummen. Will there never be any evidence that this was the case? Another point is, of course, the way Fred Teeven's position has been dealt with. The Prime Minister said that it had been sent from the constitutional position he had to have and with which he had to guard his rulers. However, it also seems that he wanted some guidance on this, because on page 87 of the report it says that the Prime Minister wanted to agree not to send the annex, while later, in the answer to the factual questions, it can be read that the Prime Minister already had the report on 26 May. So he could have had the report by now because he could have had the report four days earlier as Secretary of State. Extremely strange. Then Van der Steur's involvement. The Minister, of course, has crossed a line: he has influenced a crucial letter very heavily and has actually put his colleagues in the Lower House behind with his own information origins. My question to him is who else has had this report and when he first had it. Finally. A political swamp, haggling with information, a lack of political morality: the question is whether these are the two VVDs that are really going to change the Ministry of Security and Justice. They themselves wanted to talk about the future in this debate. That future will soon be judged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u497	Mr. Chairman. Lady Justitia is blind and she should be, because a decision is taken in all objectivity. The then summit of the Ministry of Security and Justice was also blind, but that is not the case. It had two consequences. First of all, according to the Oosting II report, there was a blundering and secondly, the receipt was not found. The minister was also blind as a member of parliament at the time. Blind for the fact that he exceeded his mandate as a Member of Parliament by souffling the minister at the time by providing the 25th draft letter with no less than 18 comments. The Minister said three things about this in this debate. Firstly, he said that it was up to the Minister to adopt recommendations or comments from a Member of Parliament, that the Minister himself was responsible for this and that we can see that the Minister did not accept most of his recommendations. Secondly, he said that he went too far and that he then crossed the border. Thirdly, he said he wouldn't do it like this as a minister. The first point is completely irrelevant and does not, of course, alter the culpability to the Minister about his role as a Member of Parliament at the time. It is only natural that the second point should be recognised. As a member of parliament at the time, the minister did indeed go far beyond the border. The third point, that the Minister will not do it in his present role, is that we still have to believe. Elections are in nine months. At that time, let the Minister provide money for the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the organisations in the criminal justice chain that need it. Let me conclude with my hope, based on an earlier remark in the debate, that he will improve his life as a minister. The Minister has said that he finds his motivation as minister in the work done by all his officials, from that in the ministry to the agents on the street. Let that not only be his motivation, let them also be an example to this minister. It is people who do their work in all conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u498	Mr. Chairman. I announced my motion in my first term. 50PLUS believes, as the Minister of the Interior said in WNL on Sunday, that the legal and security tasks of the Ministry of Security and Justice can be better divided. With this minister, we also believe that the Ministry of V and J has become too large. The GroenLinks spokesperson also just said something like that. That is why I am tabling a motion which seeks to start thinking about it now, carefully, not head-on but without the pressure of a formation soon after the elections. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to immediately start preparations to split the Ministry of Security and Justice by bringing the Security component to Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations (BZK),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34362-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u499	Mr. Chairman. I daresay I met a frank minister today. Of course, I also met with a frank Prime Minister, but I am now focusing in particular on the Minister for Security and Justice. He dares to reflect on his actions as then MP and on his actions as minister, and he shows what lessons he has learned from this, also in relation to MPs. I think that is very sensible and I appreciate his words. I also realize that we are dealing here with a Minister of Security and Justice who, together with his Secretary of State, is responsible for 110,000 people; 110,000 officials working day and night for the safety of this country and who are watching and defending the Dutch rule of law day and night. It is necessary that there is a oiled machine, an oiled department of security and justice. I am confident that the Minister, the Secretary of State and the entire Cabinet will give their full support to the change process of V and J, not to focus on all kinds of business matters, but to what we want to achieve: a safe Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u500	Mr. Chairman. I've zoomed in today on the role-playing and role-playing concept. Unfortunately, I can only say that the answers to parts were unsatisfactory. The Prime Minister's involvement in this whole issue was far greater than he thought, but he can't remember. He can't remember having co-opted for another researcher and he can't remember having chased campaign leader Dijkhoff in when the truth was threatening to come up. The Minister for Security and Justice has again reflected on his role today, and he is no longer happy with it himself. That's right. But it is worrying that the alarm bells did not go off with this minister when it came to the idea that it was deafeningly silent in his head and that he had a bumping moral compass. If we look at it as a whole, we can only conclude that the provision of information to the Chamber has been frustrated and that precisely this ministry, the guardian of the rule of law, has been damaged, and thus also the political as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u501	Mr. Chairman. I am having this debate on this dossier with great inconvenience, as much as I can be quite clear. I thank the Minister and the Prime Minister for their answers. I appreciate the fact that the Minister as a Member of Parliament, but also as a Minister, looks back critically and looks forward to his own role and to the question of how to do better in the future. The change programme looks solid and is under pressure. I'm not allowed to speak English here, so I'll translate the expression: the proof of the pudding is in the food. That doesn't work out very well, but at least that's what it comes down to. We're gonna see. It is ultimately about regaining trust, and that must be done in practice. We will certainly come back to that in later debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u502	When did Mr Recourt have the report of researcher Van Brummen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u503	That's what I've been wondering. At least I know one thing for sure, and that is that I read it down here at the CIP for the first time when it was submitted to the Chamber in confidence. Since the current minister, formerly MP, apparently had it before, I wonder if I did not have it before. At least I have no memory of it, but maybe it's still in my mailbox. All I know is I read it down here for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u504	Mr Recourt has no memory of it, but I am also asking this because it is important for a coalition MP to have this investigation much earlier than the rest of the Chamber, especially if a letter has been rewritten on the basis of that information. I would ask Mr Recourt to reconsider the question of when he received that report. If the MP Van der Steur already had the report on 27 May, while Mr Recourt did not read it until after the publication of the letter at the CIP on 3 June, there is therefore a week's difference in information. That would again indicate a special position of the MP Van der Steur as a possible influencer and ghostwriter of a letter of inquiry. That's why I think it's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u505	I can't have memories of things that didn't happen. I don't know if this was between all those thousands of e-mails I got during that period. Hence the caution, all the more so because the current Minister, former Member of Parliament, did have it. Then you're gonna think it would make more sense if you had it, but since I read it downstairs at the CIP for the first time, it's more likely that I didn't have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u506	Mr. Chairman. The aftermath of the Bitch Deal has seriously damaged citizens' confidence in politics. Main players suffered acute and inexplicable memory loss and the appearance of a cover-up is not removed even after this debate. The role of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Security and Justice remains unclear. Today new things came to light again. MP Van der Steur had the Van Brummen report before the rest of the Chamber. On the basis of this, he rewritten the cabinet letter. We find it incredibly weak that the Minister does not want to apologize to the ICTs, after he wrongly blamed them in the Chamber. You can apologize to that fifth time too! For six years VVD on V and J has led to total chaos. The VVD has lost all its credibility on Security. It is therefore time for change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u507	Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven asked when I saw Van Brummen's report. At least I've seen it before writing my comment. He then asked who else saw it. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u508	I asked the Minister in the first place whether the letter with all these changes was already known to Oosting I. The minister said: yes, it was already known; Oosting I already had that letter. Can the Minister indicate what is being discussed in Oosting I? Or was there no mention of it at all in Oosting I? Was this crucial mail exchange, which played the leading role in Oosting II, well known, but did it just not end up in Oosting I? What can the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u509	I have not read the Oosting I report completely before this debate. The complete file of the then Director-General of Justice and Law Enforcement has been transferred to the Oosting I Committee. There was no doubt that this document was included, as I confirmed this morning, also in the letter to the Chamber. I note that, at least in the Oosting II Committee, there has been a great deal of attention to it. There was, of course, the question of how the Chamber was informed and how the whole process went. That is where the Oosting I Committee made its comments on this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u510	So the Minister concludes: Oosting I had that mail exchange, but they didn't actually do anything with it until Oosting II, after everything that happened. That is the suggestion the Minister is making here. Based on his answer, I understand. I don't know exactly, so I'm just asking him; I think it's an interesting point. Would he be able to ask the committee if the Minister's e-mail containing all these changes was already available at Oosting I? It is strange that something so crucial to the reconstruction in Oosting II did not come up at all at Oosting I when it was already clear that there was a lot going on on on the basis of that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u511	The Oosting II Committee has reported extensively on the whole process. Mr Verhoeven keeps saying that this letter and my suggestions were very crucial. I do not read that in the report of the Oosting II Committee. I would like to draw Mr Verhoeven's attention to the report by the Oosting II Committee, which has looked very closely at it. The committee has noted that this letter is there and that my suggestions are there. What is stated in the Oosting II report does not support Mr Verhoeven's conclusion. Moreover, I cannot confirm what Mr Verhoeven said about what I would have said about Oosting I. I just said I didn't reread the Oosting I report. If Mr Verhoeven needs it, he can do it himself. He's asking if I'm going to ask the Oriental Commission about it. I won't do that. If the Chamber wishes to ask through me or directly from the Oosting Committee, that is up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u512	I have a very simple question. I will leave out all the qualifications and my explanation. Surely we all have an interest, both in the Cabinet and in the Chamber, in knowing whether the mail exchange, that letter was received and examined by Oosting I, regardless of the fact that it did not come back in the Oosting I report? That's an important question, isn't it? The Minister can help answer that, can't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u513	I have just said that the Oosting II Committee has made a comment on it, but it does not a priori justify what Mr Verhoeven has to say about it. He says it's an important question. The Oosting I committee says that MP Van der Steur has made suggestions and made comments, but does not say more than that. I can't quite place this, but I said what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u514	Mr. Chairman. A few questions have been asked by Mrs Van Tongeren, among others. Of course, the way it outlines works also applies to the government at all levels. Such sensitive issues are never, at least not usually, caught in harsh rules. It's always about weighing. To this end, it is indeed very important that there should be discussions, including with colleagues, on specific cases. That helps in judgment. I can also say that rulers speak a lot. They also address each other and share dilemmas. This is the normal way of working, including in business. It is good to hear from GroenLink's best practices in business. I like that. This best practice also applies to the government. There was also a question which actually goes back to the December debate on what the Prime Minister and AZ knew about the amount. I just need to get it all back. I did it fast. Neither I nor General Affairs knew that Bitch knew that the amount that Opstelten mentioned was too low. I myself stated in the debate, also on the basis of the discussion report, that my angry eye in the suspension of the debate of 10 March 2015 fell on an amount that later turned out not to be right. In the Oosting report there is another amount. At that point, then, we really know what the amount is. I never talked to Bitch about that amount. We discussed this in great detail last time in the debate in December. I just asked him if he was still in agreement with what Van Brummen had said in his report. I only knew on 9 March 2015 that what was told to the Chamber until then was not correct. This brings me back to the main elements of the December debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u515	If I understand correctly, the Prime Minister says here that he did not know until March 2015 that Mr Teeven knew that Minister Opstelten had misinformed the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u516	That's right. That is what we have been talking about here for hours on 16 December, in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u517	I know that, of course, but it is a crucial point. We now have two thick reports, two thick investigations. I think it is important that this has also been made very clear in this debate. The Prime Minister did not know until March 2015 that the Chamber had been misinformed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u518	In fact, I didn't know that until March 9. Then Ivo Opstelten called me in the morning and said that the receipt had been removed from the system. That's how it happened. I have no reason to say anything else about this now than I did in December. Then the question about the choice for the researchers has been asked again. I sincerely do not have any memory of this. I have said this a number of times in the first term, to the fact that there would have been Vendrik versus Van Brummen. I told the Chamber exactly what I was able to reconstruct, namely that Opstelten asked me to know, following the e-mail that is now in the report, that he informed me of the choice for Van Brummen and that the hearing officer was first informed of the choice for Vendrik and then of the choice for Van Brummen. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 21 is about the Archive Act. It seems to me appropriate to ask the Chamber to hold that motion so that the ministers of OCW and BZK can send a letter on it. That is necessary because, in essence, I should like to say that as a historian I should know more about it, but that as a trade minister I know less about it again, a radical change in the system of archives, also in relation to information management and government. There may be very good arguments for that. Some of them are mentioned in the motion. It may also have financial consequences that are potentially profound, as well as technical and organisational consequences. I don't really want to judge the motion. I ask the Chamber to give the Cabinet the opportunity to respond in writing. I will then make sure that the motion is forwarded to the colleagues of OCW and BZK. Mr Krol's motion for a resolution 22, with reference to the extensive exchange of views just now in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u519	I would like to hear the deadline for receiving this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u520	The votes are next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u521	Could the motion be held for a week longer? Can we do that? We'll have a little more room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u522	I would like an indication before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u523	Oh, for the summer? I can see the whole public service business nodding yes. It's gonna work. You're gentle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u524	I've been a little too generous, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u525	I thought you wanted a response before Tuesday's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u526	As soon as possible. Let's just say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u527	As soon as possible. For the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u528	Then we could postpone the votes for another week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u529	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u530	At the request of Mr Segers, I propose his motion (34362, No. 21). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-8.u531	Mr Krol's motion will be put to the vote next Tuesday. Before I suspend the meeting, I would like to report that the Automation Service has announced that there are no backups three months after the account has been closed. Then that's clear, too, I guess. I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister and the MPs.
