ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u1	I think we're allowing each other to use one abbreviation today, and that's going to be the abbreviation CETA. This debate has been requested and supported by the Chamber. It was requested by Mr Bruins of the Christian Union on 17 May. So we are having this debate quite quickly after it has been requested, because of the urgency. I call Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. He has a five-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u2	Mr. Chairman. The CETA Convention with Canada and the TTIP Convention uh, the second abbreviation tonight with the United States will have a major impact on our economy and our rule of law, but today's key question is: what do we, as the Dutch parliament, have to say at all about the decision-making and ratification of these trade agreements? The Christian Union is deeply concerned about the Brussels fog around TTIP and CETA. Is there any formal room for discussion and change, or do we actually have nothing more to say and are we long stuck with an EU advertising caravan that is pervasive? Commissioner Malmström is strongly in favour of an EU-only treatment. In other words, formal decision-making takes place in Brussels, not in the Member States. Ministers in the Council are unanimous in their view that it is a mixed treaty and that Member States are also entitled to express their formal views. But even if it is a mixed agreement, the Commission has the right to allow parts to enter into force for the time being. The Grashoff/Vos motion clearly calls for a parliamentary reservation on CETA. Why did the Minister not present this position to the Trade Council on 23 May? Nor has the Minister explicitly advocated a mixed treaty on behalf of the Netherlands. However, we see a statement from the Minister that there are no major obstacles to the adoption of CETA. The Christian Union finds it incomprehensible. Why didn't the Minister simply state the Dutch position? If we have learned anything from the association agreement with Ukraine, it is that we must clearly define in advance which parts may enter into force for the time being. When clauses entered into force for the time being before national ratification. That scenario must not be repeated at CETA, but it is likely to happen. Because what's unclear? It is unclear which parts of CETA may enter into force for the time being. It is unclear who decides whether it will be an "EU only" or a mixed treaty. It is unclear whether Member States should ratify CETA because an "EU only" treaty does not need to be ratified. It is unclear which articles are submitted to Parliament if it is a mixed treaty. It is unclear what will happen if the majority of Parliament opposes ratification. And it is unclear whether the Netherlands has a right of veto over CETA. I ask the Minister when these six points will become clear. Article 91 of our Constitution states that the Kingdom shall not be bound by treaties without the prior approval of the States-General. This principle is compromised by both a mixed treaty and an "EU only" treaty. How does the Minister intend to take Article 91 seriously again? Is she prepared to ask the Supreme Court for advice, for example? The CETA Convention is already at an advanced stage. In the five minutes I do not manage to deal with all of CETA's 1,598 pages, but I would like to highlight a few points. This Minister, too, will have to prepare himself in substance for the Dutch position in the Council on 20 June. For example, can the Minister promise that the seven principles of the ESC are the framework conditions for the assessment of CETA on 20 June? If so, how does it view the analysis of the FNV, which considers that the CETA Convention does not meet these SER baselines? The Christian Union is and remains critical of investment arbitrage for multinationals. In line with the Segers motion adopted, we still do not see any need for a parallel legal system. It is also a question of whether the EU actually has the power to establish such an arbitration court. The big question now, however, is: can we actually stop ICS or is it a race in progress? At the next Trade Council, is the Minister fully committed to a mixed treaty, including in the field of ICS? And can it guarantee that the Netherlands does not agree to the clause that ICS will remain in force for no less than three years, even in the case of non-ratification? At TTIP, we are in the process before and yet, according to President Juncker, we are also in a crucial phase. Because at the end of June, Juncker will again ask the Member States for a mandate for the TTIP negotiations. What is the Dutch government going to do about this? I like to hear it. CETA and TTIP cannot be assessed without a good analysis of the impact on our economy and on sustainability. Is there still time for a good independent impact analysis for the Netherlands and will the Minister also launch this analysis? The Dik-Faber/Klaver motion was recently adopted on a so-called carve-out clause for the climate treaty in future and existing trade agreements. This provision prevents companies from making claims against the climate agreements. In doing so, the Minister is confusing two things in her reply letter. She says that the right to regulate remains, but at the heart of the motion is that investment arbitrage will not apply to the climate agreements. I'm closing up. I hope for clear answers and a clear timetable from the Minister, because it is not unthinkable that the Chamber should come back from recess in the summer. I also hope for proper substantive treatment in this Parliament of CETA and TTIP, in order to protect our public interests and strengthen our sustainable economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to the second speaker, Mr Merkies. Mr Van Dijk is still on the list of speakers, but you are the spokesperson today, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u4	Yeah, that's a surprise, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Today, at last, the Chamber has the opportunity to convince this Chamber that the CETA Convention with Canada is nothing but losers of globalisation and must therefore be dismissed. It is reported that at the beginning of July the Commission will present a proposal to allow the CETA Convention to enter into force provisionally. I'm gonna get a few facts straight. It is a neo-liberal treaty, which is particularly good for multinationals. It's TTIP through the back door, because American companies can just take advantage through a daughter in Canada. The Convention contains an Investment Court System (ICS). This will allow companies to sue states if they want to implement policies that do not please them, even under provisional entry into force for a period of no less than three years. It has a major impact on future legislation, which further undermines democracy. Can the Minister respond to this CETA summary? Can it also respond to today's criticism by the FNV that the treaty cannot continue as it is today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u5	This debate has been going on for a number of years and we have had a lot of criticism in the past of the mechanism for resolving investment disputes, ISDS. This minister took action together with a number of other ministers and a whole new public court was set up. Mr Merkies summarizes this by saying that if a policy is proclaimed that a company does not like it, that company is going to take action and want to see money. Does Mr Merkies really think that this does justice to what the ICS is proposing and to what has been done by this Chamber, and in accordance with it also by the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u6	I've also dealt with ISDS before. The Segers motion, which criticized ISDS, was actually the Segers/Merkies motion. In this sense, ICS is an improvement that it is no longer private, but that there is a national legal system. That is an improvement, but that does not mean that it does not also offer companies an exclusive right to sue countries. A country is at risk when it wants to introduce a certain new policy. We know the example of nuclear power plants in Germany. As a result of what happened in Fukushima, more stringent legislation was sought. Then Vattenfall wanted to press charges. It may happen that there will be new insights in the future and if so, you do not want to be stuck with the fact that you can start all kinds of things through this court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u7	Firstly, it is, I know, not a national system, but a European court. Secondly, Mr Merkies referred in particular to the right to regulate, our right to legislate. I believe that we have discussed this matter over and over again, and it is also laid down in the Treaty that this right must remain in full force. In fact, therefore, I do not really understand what Mr Merkies means and I do not think that it is entirely in line with reality, as it has been done in the meantime, partly thanks to the efforts of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u8	As I said, I recognize that improvement. There is indeed, but that does not mean that it does not still give companies the opportunity to sue countries, and that could lead to those countries not being able to do certain things, as I have already mentioned by way of the example of nuclear power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u9	Mr Merkies mentioned the example of nuclear power plants, but that is exactly the wrong example. I know Mr Merkies as someone who reads his pieces and when he has read these documents, he knows that this case was not about German policy with the aim of eliminating nuclear power stations. I think it was true, but Mr Merkies has to say yes or no that there were some sixteen nuclear power stations in Germany. Vattenfall had bought two of them, which turned into Swedish power stations. The problem was not that the Germans stopped nuclear power, but that they did it by shutting down the Swedish power stations. Does Mr. Merkies recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u10	First of all about reading all the pieces. I am replacing Mr Van Dijk, who unfortunately cannot be present because of personal circumstances. Mr Teeven will understand that for that reason I have not been able to read all the documents. At least I hope he can understand that. I don't exactly know the story about Vattenfall. I am more concerned with the general principle. There can be new policy insights, for example stricter environmental standards, and then it would be very cruel if this could not continue because they are stuck with treaties and because investors say that they have been promised sisters and so on. I hope that this can be done without all kinds of lawsuits being overlooked, because if that threat does occur, then that legislation will not be introduced at all. That's what I'm really worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u11	I understand. I will not draw Mr Merkies' attention to that point too sharply either. Vattenfall is actually about something else, and the SP should be against that too. The Vattenfall case is not very good for the German Government because it concerns distortion of competition. If you cut out the Swedish power stations first, and don't start the German ones, you'll lead the German producers on Vattenfall. I think that was the case. So it is not a question of changing German nuclear energy policy. The point is, if you're going to change that, you're not gonna let any distortion of competition happen. That's not what the SP's for, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u12	I think it's the other way around. Precisely because foreign multinationals have the opportunity to sue, national companies have a disadvantage compared to American multinationals, which are going to carry out that kind of business through the CETA back door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u13	The point is, of course, that Vattenfall can simply use the German legal system if it feels unholy. It is very strange that a special free trade court has been set up where only companies can bring cases, not the State. This completely interferes with the rule of law of a court and parliament. I have a question about those special courts. You can see in the discussions on TTIP and CETA that many parties disagree with and want investment resolution mechanisms out. Then it seems as if they could vote for such a free trade agreement when it comes out. Even if that were to be demolished, does the SP still believe, with the Animal Party, that you should not want such a free trade agreement, not only because it threatens our democracy, but also because it will not meet the standards we in Europe have for food safety, animal welfare and public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u14	In fact, like other speakers, Mrs Thieme is getting a little ahead of things that I will be getting into in the rest of my contribution. I agree with her very much, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u15	Mrs Thieme is now happy to walk out of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u16	No, she's not walking out of the hall. She's just gonna check in the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u17	In any case, she is very happy, because she has a supporter in the SP, who, whatever changes, remains against the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u18	No, that's not what Mrs Thieme said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u19	I will not ask Mr Merkies about the details, because that is not sporting in the situation he is in, but I do have a simple question to the SP. Perhaps it is about the politics of the SP in broad terms. Let's take this as a symbol. If a certain improvement in the proposals is achieved so that they approach what the SP stands for, and what the supporters of the SP might have fought for or civil society organisations have fought for, will the SP be opposed? Does the SP say at some point, when all things are satisfied and the concerns have been listened to and the benefits are also obvious: we dare to look at the content and we dare to vote in favour? Or is the SP just like the Party for Animals, which I'll be asking about later, just anyway, whatever happens or stands against?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u20	First of all, Mr Verhoeven is not quoting Mrs Thieme properly. Her question was if the SP is for it if ICS isn't in it. So it's not "no matter what." "Anyway against" you can hardly say, because if we were to create the conditions, there would be a number of other things in it. I will come back to that, but they do have to do with food safety, the environment, animal welfare and the precautionary principle. I thank Mr Verhoeven for his question. He'll recognize it if I get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u21	Thanks for the answer. I will listen carefully to what is still to be said, absolutely. I'm just asking a question right now. So there is a political space, an open view, at the SP to look at the substantive development of treaties, such as the treaty with Canada and even more the treaty with the United States? So it is not necessarily the case that the SP has set up a counter-rate that is unwavering?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u22	Look, this treaty is so far from what we stand for. I have already mentioned several points. I can also mention consumer protection. So much must be done on all these points, that it certainly is not. But how can you oppose a trade agreement in general, with all the conditions that should be good? It looks like CETA will become an "EU only" treaty. Mr Bruins referred to this as well. This means that Member States are not allowed to take a decision on it. That is what EU Commissioner Malmström wants. During the last AO RBZ Trade, the Minister expressed her confidence in the Council's desire to reach a mixed agreement. Where did it go wrong? The Netherlands is no longer present in the list of countries that have advocated a mixed treaty. At least that is evident from the leaked minutes of the Trade Council. Why has the Netherlands not explicitly committed itself to a mixed agreement, in accordance with the Minister's commitment? I would like to get an explanation for this which goes beyond the statement: The Netherlands is the neutral chairman. I would remind the Minister that the legal service of the Council states that CETA should be a mixed treaty. Is it true that at the end of the ISD Trade Member States have confirmed their support for the current CETA text? Why did the Minister not make a parliamentary reservation when Austria, Slovenia, Bulgaria and Romania objected? Can the Minister confirm that at the beginning of July the Commission will submit a proposal on provisional entry into force to the Council and that the Netherlands will not agree? Can the Minister outline the process from the moment the Netherlands makes a reservation? At which Council meeting will the Council adopt the proposal or not? Is it true that the Council will vote by qualified majority and not unanimously on the proposal if it becomes an "EU only" agreement? What happens if one country says: we cannot agree to CETA? Almost 2,000 concerned citizens sent an e-mail to Prime Minister Rutte calling not to agree to the introduction of TTIP and CETA. On https://ttip.sp.nl/, all citizens can sign this letter. I advise them to do so. I would like to stress once again that many organisations and experts are deeply concerned about ICS, the replacement of ISDS. ICS continues to undermine democracy by giving companies the privilege to circumvent the national rule of law. In reply to our questions about ICS, the Minister also admits that the energy giant TransCanada, who has accused the US, could have done so on the basis of the CETA Convention. There has never been a legal test so far to check ICS against European law and national law. Why didn't that ever happen? Is the Minister prepared to have such a test carried out? Then I'll get to TTIP. The TTIP leaks confirm what many were already afraid of. TTIP is a threat to our standards, including in the field of food safety and the environment. The concerns about the precautionary principle do not seem to be met. Does the Minister recognize this image? If not, where in the text is the retention of the precautionary principle secured and what are these safeguards? President Juncker has made an interesting move. It will once again ask the Member States to support the TTIP mandate at the forthcoming European Summit. Is the Netherlands then prepared to say: we thank you for the honour? What happens when a country does not support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u23	Mr. Chairman. There are, however, a number of things that are very complex at this point in procedural terms. Let me say that the European Commission will not discuss the matter until 5 July. This means that, in my view, it will no longer be possible, before the start of our recess, to speak about a letter from the Commission if it is to come after 5 July. At the same time, I assume that the Minister feels fully committed to the Grashoff/Jan Vos motion. This means that, even during the recess, no steps can be taken other than at the penalty that the Chamber should be called back from recess; I think that this is something we all do not find very pleasant and perhaps not the Minister himself. Would the Minister like to reflect on how it intends to deal with this? Then there is the issue of the mixed treaty and the EU only treaty. The Commission still seems to be in favour of an "EU only" treaty so far. We consider that to be a wonderful point of view. I believe that the Dutch Government shares this because it has the idea that it is a mixed agreement. This calls for ratification by all the Member States, with all the horns and bells that go with it, to the fact that it is therefore referendable. If I understand correctly, the European Council must be unanimous in its view that it should be a mixed treaty. What would happen if this unanimity were to be broken? Is the Minister prepared to refer the matter to the European Court if necessary? There will then be a tough confrontation between a large number of Member States and the European Commission. Let it be clear from our point of view: there is no conflict with the position of a mixed treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u24	I would like to know from Mr Grashoff whether he has a bit of regret about his full yes to the European Constitution, to the Treaty of Lisbon, as it is now called. It states that parts of the Free Trade Treaty may enter into force on an "EU only" basis. As a result, the Treaty of Lisbon will allow CETA to enter into force soon. Doesn't GroenLinks regret the fact that she was in favour of the Treaty of Lisbon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u25	No, because such a treaty is about a lot of things. It doesn't always say everything you want. GroenLinks' view is that although there may be provisional entry into force of "EU only" conventions, it would be preferable not to have provisional entry into force at all given the intertwined nature of mixed treaties. We should work together on this administrative practice. In the meantime, I think there are a few examples that show very clearly that it is an extremely unfortunate combination: a mixed treaty where the EU component enters into force separately for the time being. That's most unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u26	Does Mr Grashoff agree with me that it is extremely unfortunate that the Treaty of Lisbon facilitates such free trade agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u27	No, that's too general a conclusion. In itself, GroenLinks has nothing against good free trade agreements. They must be good free trade agreements. As far as we are concerned, CETA is not yet an example of this. Mr. Chairman. I've come to the preliminary application. That is, of course, a special issue. Does the Minister agree with us that it is an unfortunate construction to allow the provisional application to a mixed treaty, of which you are going to do a piece, with all the discussions that have taken place on the grey area of whom is what? Does this mean this? Because a provisional application to a mixed treaty can be overtaken later if it could not be ratified, the crazy situation is that for example an ICS can go on for three years, when there is no agreement and there is no ratification. That is, of course, an idiotic observation. In substance, we have the necessary reservations and criticisms about CETA. Let's get that straight. The whole ICS mechanism is and remains a dragon of an arrangement. Yes, it is clearly better than ISDS, which was much worse, but it remains a parallel legal system in which legal inequality is introduced for international companies versus national companies and individuals. A legal system is introduced that is purely aimed at facilitating business claims towards government. That in itself is a situation that we are extremely afraid of. This certainly applies to the shadowiness that this will bring, even though not every claim of every company will be honored, given the right to regulate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u28	I hear a lot of criticism from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, but does it have any solutions? What would it look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u29	Yes, I also have solutions, albeit the reaction to this interruption may be a little too extensive if I have to outline them to their full extent. I'm making a few very short statements. ICS needs to get out. We have excellent legal systems in our countries that can do it well. The great advantage is that we have a lot of case law, for example from the Administrative Court of the Council of State, and so we are much more certain about judgments because we can rely much more on them than on an entirely new parallel legal system. This is a major point. I would also like to mention the conditions set out in CETA for the services that cannot actually be held public. This is therefore a kind of duty to liberalise services, with the exception of a few things. We would not want that in the Treaty at all. I have mentioned two examples of this, but I would like to continue with Mr Vos in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u30	Now I hear another kind of SP-reverse from GroenLinks. I was looking for the following. Mr Grashoff said that his party was in principle in favour of free trade agreements, but that these should be good treaties. Then what can we improve? For example, the Labour Party has said that it would like trade unions to have access to the arbitration mechanism, as well as NGOs to raise environmental problems in the arbitration mechanism. I think that this is a more constructive way of achieving something than to say: this and that must come out and we do not want it all to go the way we want it to go. That's not gonna get you that far in Europe. I was actually looking for that attitude of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u31	Conversely, I am a little surprised by this reaction from Mr Vos. You first introduce a parallel legal system that is specifically intended for companies, and then soften it by giving others access to it. I can imagine that Mr Vos and the Labour Party will also come to the conclusion that there is no need for such a parallel legal system at all and that there are also important disadvantages. If you take that out, you would not need the partial solutions proposed by Mr Vos. That's actually the point. I therefore believe that we should look more fundamentally at the treaties. A free trade agreement with the removal of trade barriers and the proper alignment and maintenance of good, high standards? Yes, for that you can find GroenLinks. You also know us as a party that is not at all a priori opposed to trade agreements. However, we must remain very critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u32	You will continue your speech, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u33	I'll mention another one. That is the issue of government bonds, which can actually be seen as an investment, so there can also be claims if, for example, government bonds cannot be paid in full in the event of debt restructuring. This may also create a basis for claims. We shouldn't want that, should we? Mr Thieme has rightly added to this debate the question of how far we stand with regard to Mr Juncker's question as to the extent to which he still has a mandate for TTIP. That seems to me to be a fair question. The Minister says that nothing has really changed, but then she didn't pay attention. In my opinion, the public support for TTIP is incredibly erode throughout Europe and we have a good chance that it will never happen. Then perhaps it would be wise not to negotiate it for the time being. Can the Minister agree with me that it would be wise to take at least a time-out in the TTIP negotiations until we have completed the whole CETA process up to and including the final procedures of possible ratification if it ever comes to that, and only then to proceed with TTIP? Then we can learn from this process. Finally. A court of law already exists. We, for example, already benefit from it, but many people also suffer from it. We have 95 bilateral investment agreements. These lead to claims by Dutch companies or companies based in the Netherlands from elsewhere. The Minister wants to renegotiate them, and we think that is a good thing, but she wants to wait for an EU standard. The question then arises as to whether the Minister sees the ICS as the model for this. Is that right? If so, I would be sorry, because we believe that the ICS has by far insufficient guarantees in this regard. One last comment, if that's all right. Last year the Klaver motion on renegotiating the Energy Charter Treaty was adopted. That treaty has led to many ISDS claims. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? It's been a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u34	I am still not quite clear on what is the position of GroenLinks, but it seemed that GroenLinks intends to vote against a possible mixed treaty, which is supported by GroenLinks. What would GroenLinks do if we voted on the green goods initiative, another treaty concluded between many countries in the world, in this case in order to ensure that trade in green products is conducted as effectively as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u35	Can I honestly say that I must remain guilty of the answer at this time? Otherwise, I should be very specific about the content of the treaty, but I am not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u36	That's fine, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u37	Mr Verhoeven, I would remind you that we are talking about CETA. That might make it complex enough. I therefore suggest that you limit yourself to this treaty and what is directly linked to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u38	I'm gonna ask you a quick question about this, though...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u39	But you heard me, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u40	Absolutely, but I also say that I am asking a question about it, because I think it is very closely linked to this. My question concerns the position of GroenLinks in the area of trade agreements. This trade agreement is intended to enable sustainable trade in green products between many countries. My question is whether GroenLinks would vote in favour of such a trade agreement or be opposed in principle. I am looking for the attitude of GroenLinks in this; hence this question. Moreover, I have only one interruption to Mr Grashoff's speech, so I would say that there may be some room. I just want to know what GroenLinks' attitude is in this kind of debate. I am afraid that GroenLinks is going in the same direction as the SP, namely: we are simply against this, because that is a good thing, and so we are just bumping into everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u41	That surprises me, because I think that if Mr Verhoeven had listened carefully, he could have gotten a completely different tone out of my speech. GroenLinks is not necessarily against international trade agreements, especially if they would contribute to fair trade and the sustainability of the international economy. Of course, that's what we're here for. Nor are we for nothing a party that thinks and acts in this area from a European perspective. Mr Verhoeven is aware of our thinking about the Ukraine Treaty; we were indeed very nuanced about the advantages and disadvantages. However, we do not think that we should necessarily be gratified by a treaty, such as CETA or TTIP, while there are very clear indications that it could be a drastic obstacle to our sustainable development. That would also be my advice to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u42	Mr Grashoff himself says that there are 95 treaties containing the old form of international dispute resolution and investment protection. Has GroenLinks always voted against it or has GroenLinks just passed many of these treaties? Here again I ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u43	We're doing interruptions in two with a final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u44	Excuse me. Here again I ask: where does GroenLinks stand, when it comes to all the treaties it voted for and what ISDS is just in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u45	Mr Klaver has already made a point of this for me. I can't exactly judge whether we've all had those 95 treaties the moment they were discussed. That could well not be the case or in part not, so I am sure to give that to Mr Verhoeven. We are now making it clear that they need to be renegotiated. We really need to move away from a whole piece of that not-so-pleasing claim culture towards governments, for example in the Third World.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u46	Mr. Chairman. Free trade, it sounds so beautiful: freedom. Freedom is also a great asset, but free trade is not rarely at the expense of our freedoms. Our freedom to live in a healthy living environment, to buy reliable and affordable food that meets our standards and our standards, to draw up environmental rules for example to close coal plants; these freedoms are threatened by free trade agreements such as CETA and TTIP. CETA gives Canadian multinationals and US multinationals with a subsidiary in Canada free play on the European market and free play to sue countries through special free trade courts for making rules to protect people, animals and the environment. It is indigestible that these arbitrators will soon be able to determine whether rules are necessary, legitimate and proportionate. Is it up to them to weigh investment interests against legislation? The parliament of a sovereign state is actually set aside. CETA does talk about the right of the government to make rules, but it does so in line with the CETA provisions. Then the foreign investor must also be compensated. Brussels wants CETA to enter into force as soon as possible. In fact, the European Commission believes that Brussels should take that decision on its own and that this is not up to the individual Member States. Why didn't the Netherlands express itself against this in Brussels? Thanks to the Treaty of Lisbon, which the Netherlands massively said "no' to in 2005, it would be possible to bring parts of CETA into force without the Member States having anything to say about it. Is that right? It is necessary for the European Court of Justice to be asked for an opinion on whether the dispute resolution mechanism at issue is the investment resolution mechanism, which is legally sustainable in free trade courts. Does the Minister agree with us? We are considering a motion on that point. Many people have already signed the petition to hold a referendum. However, the cabinet or parliament itself can take the initiative to hold such a referendum, as we have done on the European Constitution. CETA must not enter into force without Parliament first voting on it and the public being consulted on it. After all, the free trade treaties largely exclude Parliament. This makes it necessary for all citizens to be able to express their views on this matter. This is about the sovereignty of our parliamentary democracy. Thanks to the growing protest of a very large part of the European population, businesses and farmers, the support for TTIP is becoming increasingly shaky. The President of the European Commission, Juncker, does not think he can do without reaffirming the mandate of all the Member States. This makes it clear that the existing mandate is not sufficient. In that uncertain situation, the untimely entry into force of CETA cannot be justified, nor would it be justified in the case of TTIP. That is why I ask the cabinet to plead in Brussels for a pass on the spot. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs seems to agree with us. I would like to quote him: "I said that trade agreements should not undermine our standards by opening our market to products produced at lower standards. That undermines the level playing field and our efforts." Our democracy, our rights, our health, animal welfare and our planet must not be seen as barriers to trade, but should be cherished as fragile values that we have. They can't be expressed in money. The CETA and TTIP negotiations must come to an end, just as I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u47	Mr. Chairman. It's the day after D-day. 72 years ago, 14,000 Canadians stormed Normandy's beach to free the Netherlands and we still welcome every year the Canadian veterans who fought for this. Since then, the Netherlands has had excellent relations with Canada and its Dutch and Canadian partners on the world stage, especially with the new Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who dares to look beyond the borders after the conservative Harper, and wants to find solutions to the major challenges of our time, such as climate change and food scarcity. In any case, my contribution today is in stark contrast to that of the previous speakers, who seem paralyzed by fear or their electoral abdomen, who want to feed anti-globalist populism and who want to hide behind the dikes to shut the Netherlands off from the world. However, it seems that they have completely forgotten that solving world problems, which all the people in the world are dealing with, requires a common international approach. The parties who spoke for me are trying to create an image that trade is bad for prosperity, even pretending that trade agreements are bad for the climate, our environment and food safety and saying that Europe would lose its high standards. While they're warning about the chlorine chicken, I'd like to warn you about their sandwich monkey stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u48	Family members of the Canadians who have helped us to free us from the occupying forces, are often milk farmers now or have another engaging profession in Canada. They are now facing massive milk imports from Europe, threatening their milk production and threatening their income. That is the effect of removing trade barriers. You're not protecting the local market, but you're actually competing with the farmers in Canada right now because of the huge import of milk there. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. If this spokesperson is concerned with giving business ample space, is it just the multinationals and their own farmers or is it all farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u49	I also welcome the fact that the Animal Party is now seeking support for farmers. I'd be fine with that. I am surprised because, in recent months, when I spoke about the interests of Ukrainians in the Treaty on Ukraine, the opponents said that it was only the Netherlands. It's a fair question. As far as we are concerned, one of the most important points in these treaties is the position of small and medium-sized enterprises, the position of small producers and small businesses who would like to trade a little more across the border. It is these companies who often find it difficult to do so and are often helped by trade agreements of this kind. So, as far as I am concerned, both the farmers in Canada and the farmers in the Netherlands, like all the other small businesses in Canada, the Netherlands and Europe, must have opportunities to trade better, to create more jobs, to make better products and to make more profit. It is therefore right for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u50	What a sandwich monkey story. In the case of free trade agreements concluded earlier, for example with Mexico, farmers have just competed away. We constantly see that this is only good for the multinationals, who are so eager to wear out their products all over the world. We constantly see that this is at the expense of family businesses. It is not for nothing that farmers here in the Netherlands say: we must get rid of these free trade agreements, because they threaten family businesses and the quality of products, and they do not improve animal welfare and food safety. The farmers say: let us above all ensure that we can produce good products. There is no need to transport these products around the world in order to earn a few more cents. Can Mr Verhoeven respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u51	I now hear exactly the negative, black and dark sound I know at this point of the Party for Animals. Mrs Thieme should read a history book. She should read something about how people lived hundreds of thousands or hundreds of years ago. People often lived very poor at that time. The circumstances of many people on this continent were extremely sad. People had to search for hours for a potato and hoped that they would encounter another dead animal with which they could stay alive. If there is one way in which people have been able to escape these sad circumstances, it is through trade and through cooperation. In doing so, the whole world has been able to escape these sad conditions, including poor countries and poor continents. Mrs Thieme is now pretending that what I am saying is not true, but it is just a fact. She knows that, and she's laughing out of here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u52	No, no, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u53	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Thieme is fooling around. It is simply a fact that trade has led to much more prosperity, especially for many poor groups. That is why this cabinet has also said that we need to merge trade and development aid. Mrs Thieme can certainly have her concerns. That concern is justified and I shall repeat the points later. But that black sound where it is said that trade is only wrong is really not in line with the course of world history. It would adorn the Party for the Animals if one also agreed on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u54	Mrs Thieme makes a final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u55	The gap between rich and poor in the world is bigger than ever. Prosperity is very unfairly distributed. Really, it seems very good to me to look at the present in particular. Then you see what the effects of globalisation are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u56	In the Middle Ages, the gap between rich and poor was much larger than today. Mrs Thieme is laughing again and waving it all away, but she has no regard for the fact that trade has caused a lot of poor people to escape poverty and have been able to build a decent life. Mrs Thieme pretends that trade is nothing but bad. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u57	I would appreciate a more nuanced debate. I should like to say that I too think that Mr Verhoeven himself is coming in very high. He is talking about all the previous speakers who would all break free trade and not know its history. I can't agree with his sketch. Let's just take a critical look at a treaty like CETA. What does such an arbitration system actually do in that? Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me that that system is a strange duck in the bite? There is an extremely effective legal system in our country. You can go to court here, and you can go to the European Court of Justice if necessary. There must be unity of justice that applies to everyone, to every resident in this country, to Dutch entrepreneurs and to foreign entrepreneurs. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me that this is a great asset? Does he agree with me that such a system can only serve the interests of these international investors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u58	I don't think so. In my opinion, we have in the past made many treaties with old, old-fashioned forms of investment protection, precisely to ensure that our companies would not be disadvantaged by unreliable countries. That makes sense, because in the past this has happened very often. Furthermore, I must say that the old system needs to be improved. That is what the Cabinet has said, and I believe that all the parties in the Chamber have said, and these improvements will now be made. You may indeed ask yourself whether there should be some form of international dispute resolution. I believe that there are still a lot of countries on our side, in Europe, but also a lot of states in America where the legal system certainly does not guarantee fair justice. In such countries and states, for example, there is still jury justice, or case law that is politically guided. As a result, companies that simply want to do good in such countries are not always able to count on fair justice. I can see the danger the opponents face. I've always seen that, but I also see the need. After all, we do not live in an ideal world in which all justice everywhere in the world is completely as in the Netherlands. There are also a lot of countries where it is a good thing that our companies have the chance to make a course to the courts that is objectively judged. In that sense, I am looking at it a little more nuanced than Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u59	If I let this work out for myself, I must at least say that Mr Verhoeven is trying to find a solution to a non-existent problem between Canada and the European Union. Because I believe that we in the European Union have a proper legal system, and so does Canada. I have every confidence in that. The whole thing can thus be removed from CETA. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me? That would help a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u60	After the text had been final for a long time, thanks to the progressive Canadian government a major improvement has already been made. For my group, this improvement is such that it does not say: this is a terrible part. I do not agree with GroenLinks that the entire investment protection system should be removed, for the simple reason that it is very good to give our own companies and also Canadian companies the chance to find a fair course of justice to an international court to get their rights. We should not always be so afraid that international judges are by definition worse than national judges. I certainly have an eye for the disadvantages, but I also see great advantages for our own companies to be able to do well anywhere in the world, including Canada. That is why I think that the cabinet's proposal and the European Union's proposal to reform it is not so bad at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u61	It is clear that the legal system introduced here is a parallel legal system that is unprecedented, in the sense that it puts the ownership of international companies on a pedestal and that there is a firm right to regulate the government's right to claim. This is going to be an extraordinary obstacle to us, especially from the point of view of sustainability and climate action. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats should be very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u62	We will always be careful to consider the advantages and disadvantages, as we are still doing as the only party in this Chamber. I just point out that a claim in itself is part of a normal course of justice. It is always pretended that a claim is being filed, even if it has been granted and that the Netherlands therefore has nothing more to say. The Netherlands has never been charged. The Netherlands has, above all, many companies that have themselves sued on the basis of things that I understand very well that they have done so. A lot of claims have never been granted. Most of the claims are won by countries and not by companies. In short, it may also be a balanced international system, which you can best have confidence in. D66 does have that confidence, especially in the new system. The old system, which I am with the GroenLinks Group and the cabinet, should try to reform you to the new system as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u63	All the economic textbooks state that free trade is good for prosperity, but there is something in it, namely that there must be a level playing field between companies, otherwise you will compete unfairly with each other. D66 is now an excellent advocate in other committees for sustainability, environment and animal welfare, but this includes competing with those countries where it is at the same level. Does D66 only agree with CETA if it is so arranged?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u64	Absolutely. I will repeat it later, but in previous debates we have always laid down a number of tough conditions which are in line with what Mr Dijkgraaf is saying. We are absolutely not blind to trade agreements, but we do have a positive attitude towards trade agreements. And we have a number of tough conditions: a level playing field in terms of standards and values, the environment, food safety, sustainability and the maintenance of democracy. It is also important for SMEs to have access to other markets. We test every treaty under these conditions. We do not say that any trade agreement is good. But I find the attitude that is taking more and more parties and people in the Netherlands now, namely that every trade treaty is bad, very counterproductive, because then you will lose sight of the fact that trade has produced a lot of good things. You might say that in the debate with Mrs Thieme I was too unsophisticated, but I think that the discussion is being conducted far too unsophisticated recently, because everyone is saying 'we are in favour' or 'we are against'. Then I think: if no one dares to give a good and firm countersound, in the sense that we are aware that trade has given many people a better life, then we are very far away from driving what we as a trading country Netherlands have been very successful in over the past decades and centuries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u65	Then Mr Verhoeven is putting me on the wrong foot with his introductory text. It contains cheerful words about free trade. His introductory text basically means that the treaty is fantastic and the whole Chamber has gone mad. However, this is not how it works. In view of the environmental and animal welfare conditions that D66 lays down, Mr Verhoeven must also note that he cannot accept the text of the Treaty now before us, because the differences with Europe and certainly with the Netherlands are so great that you are lagging behind large sectors in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u66	It's up to D66 to decide. We will do so on the basis of all the information available and the discussion that is still possible. By the way, the CETA text is already there, of course. The fact that it should be a mixed treaty is something my group is in favour of. I also think that there are a lot of things in CETA that you could say is extremely good. The European Union has brought in a lot of things when the text was already there. With a progressive Prime Minister in Canada, Mr Trudeau, it has been possible to carry out a lot of good things. Canada has fully responded to this. I did not refer in my introduction to Mr Dijkgraaf when I said that a number of parties were very critical of what they were always critical of. All kinds of things have been improved and these parties are listened to very well, but they remain critical, because they were once critical and opposed and so they have to stop. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u67	Mr Dijkgraaf for a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u68	Then let's make it very practical. Mr Verhoeven is stuck in generalities. In the Chamber we have discussed in detail the very great limitations of neonicotinoids. This is difficult for farmers, but it is good for the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u69	That doesn't sound like a final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u70	But it is, Madam President. I should like to hear what Mr Verhoeven has to say about this. D66 considers this to be a very important subject in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. In Canada, you can do whatever you want. If D66 considers this to be such an important issue in the Committee on Agriculture, then it must take it very seriously in the context of this treaty and say: boys, we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u71	Now I think Mr Dijkgraaf himself is a bit general. He says that we in the Committee on Agriculture are making a huge point of it and that everything can happen in Canada. In Canada, everything can't just happen. Perhaps the standard is different, but then what D66 keeps saying in the field of food safety is: our standards must be maintained. We will test CETA for that too. This point and all the other points made by Mr Dijkgraaf on technical agricultural resources, therefore, I would certainly like to take with me. That's what we do. However, let us remain interested in the Chamber and look carefully at the advantages and disadvantages. Let's not put all the disadvantages on a plate and then say, "Oh, what a bad treaty!', Then we don't talk about the benefits at all. This attitude is emerging in this Chamber. I will not say that Mr Dijkgraaf is cooperating in this, but the four previous speakers were extremely negative. I have hardly heard them mention anything positive about the treaty, while I think that the treaty contains a lot of good elements, with opportunities for a lot of people, both here in Europe and in Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u72	Mr Verhoeven has already said that D66 considers it very important that the conditions for animal welfare, the environment and so on are met. Are the seven points mentioned by the ESC as a condition to be met by free trade agreements such as CETA and TTIP, also for D66 a kind of golden standard that we should measure free trade agreements to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u73	No, that is not a good assumption from Mr Bruins, because we are not a party that keeps following what the polder, the ESC, thinks of, no matter how good it is. In fact, we have our own conditions. There are four of them, which I shall mention in a moment to refresh the memory of the Members of the Chamber. For us, therefore, the ESC is absolutely not a gold standard when it comes to trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u74	Then let me specifically highlight one to see if we can find each other in it. CETA places particular demands on the final product. The Netherlands also remains sovereign in determining the requirements to be met by the products. This concerns the rules that apply in the Netherlands. CETA does not, however, take into account the conditions under which the production takes place. In Canada, therefore, products can be produced in a different way and by other means, as long as the final product complies with the rules. This also means that CETA does not impose clear limits and rules on animal welfare and the environment and that CETA cannot, in that sense, comply with the words that Mr Verhoeven himself has just spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u75	Mr Bruins says that CETA does not impose any clear limits. With that assumption in his question, I just don't agree. This kind of trade agreement is the right way to regulate trade. By the way, I have not yet heard the parties opposed to this treaty offer any alternative to how you do regulate trade. You can also say that you do not need trade agreements, but you get trade without rules, as China very much wants. And that really makes the world a lot worse. I would be very pleased to have treaties covering differences between countries without reducing the level that applies in individual countries. That mistake is being made. There are different standards that all offer protection in a different way. The idea in trade agreements is to bring these standards together in a practical sense, so that trade can be driven more easily without lowering those standards. I do not think Mr Bruins is right when he says that CETA is leading to a deterioration of standards in Europe anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u76	Finally, Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u77	CETA does not lead to any deterioration of standards in Europe, but imposes conditions on the products we import that comply with our rules. CETA does not impose rules on the way those products are created. This leads to competition differences, which cause real problems in some sectors. If D66 wants to preserve animal welfare, the environment and so on in the way our products are made, it cannot vote in favour of CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u78	That's a way of looking at such a treaty. Mr Bruins took a magnifying glass and went to see if there could be a reason to be against it and said: let me take that point; let me add that you can only be for animal welfare if you do not want that point, because then you have to vote against the Treaty. You can't judge any treaty in a good way. I do not hear anyone here in the Chamber so far say 'I am very curious to hear the input of the VVD spokesperson, who may still be somewhat positive 'that it would be nice if we could conclude a treaty in which we can regulate a number of things that are now different on both sides of the sea in such a way that we can easily cross over and trade more easily without all kinds of deterioration.' Mr Bruins had a very nice approach. He said, "I'd like to meet you and see where we can find each other." I have been looking for a connection with Mrs Thieme for years, with Mr Merkies and Mr Van Dijk and with Mr Grashoff, but they all run away every time because they want to stay against. They don't want that connection at all, but they just want to be against it. If we can talk about the content of the treaty, if we can talk about the details, the points of light, the points of improvement, the serious concerns that have been expressed, which have been listened to under political pressure, then we can all get a long way. I'm the one who would love to connect to this file. Only, the parties that are now on the interrupting microphone run away every time I come to them because they want to be against so badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u79	They've come to you again. Mr Merkies has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u80	I understand you're also aware that what I just described makes me really sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u81	I am about to hand out handkerchiefs, but I shall first give the floor to Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u82	We're almost gonna cry, yeah. Let me give a tip to Mr Verhoeven. He doesn't manage to find the connection with us, but he shouldn't quote us so often. I have never experienced in this Chamber that a spokesperson so often miscited his colleagues. First of all, I wanted to make that clear. Of course, it's not about whether you're for or against trade, nor about whether you're for or against the Middle Ages. To be perfectly honest, I find it almost laughable to bring that up. But let me try to connect. Mr Verhoeven said it must be a mixed treaty. We agree on that, but does he also make that a condition? If Malmström says it is going to be an EU treaty, does Mr Verhoeven also say that the Netherlands is not participating?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u83	If D66 in the House of Representatives says that it is for a mixed treaty and if it is determined to continue that this is not a mixed treaty, D66 will oppose it in this Chamber, otherwise it will be a hollow condition. I can therefore very easily reassure Mr Merkies on this point. To correct this, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Merkies, too, are constantly saying that this is a neoliberal treaty, which is only good for multinationals. These are, of course, tough one-liners with which they are trying to make it clear that this would supposedly be bad for SMEs. I have always said that I am in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is one of my most important reasons for me to be in the House of Representatives. So I think it is very important that this is good for small and medium-sized enterprises. I am almost laughed at, and I am even really laughed at by Mrs Thieme when I say that the Treaty could be good for small and medium-sized enterprises. There are even separate chapters devoted to small and medium-sized enterprises. There is absolutely no doubt that attention is being paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are themselves involved in this. When I say that this is good for small and medium-sized enterprises, I am laughed at, because of course that cannot be the case. "No, it's a neoliberal treaty that's only good for multinationals." I have heard that phrase so many times that I can quote it, but we have now found the connection: we are both in favour of a mixed treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u84	Mr Merkies hasn't run away yet. He's got an interruption in threes; he's going for the second time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u85	No, I'm not running away. Indeed, we have already won that: we are both in favour of a mixed treaty. Now Mr Verhoeven quoted us correctly: we say that this is a neoliberal treaty for multinationals. We also have a good basis for this. That's different than we'd be against all trade. So at least we're both in favour of a mixed treaty. If an EU-only treaty is still in place, does Mr Verhoeven agree with me that we should stick to the retention of treatment that has already been indicated in the Grashoff/Vos motion and that we should actually keep our feet firmly in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u86	Not "actually"; we just have to keep our feet stiff. We think that a mixed treaty is a good idea in this case. That is not what we are talking about; that must be very clear. D66 cannot determine by hammer stroke that it becomes a mixed treaty. All I can do is say in this Chamber what we would ideally like. We would ideally like the Dutch Parliament to have to agree to the treaty. If this is not the case in one way or another, we will use possible means to make it so, otherwise it would be strange for us to adopt that position. I can't do it any better than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u87	Mr Merkies, for a brief closing remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u88	At least we have found a little connection: Mr Verhoeven will do everything with me to ensure that this is not pushed through as EU only.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u89	Yes, and then Mr Merkies is going to do his best to ensure that his group also takes account of the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, of the improvements in democratic decision-making by countries and of the fact that a great many parts are indeed good for tackling climate degradation, so that we also dare to highlight the positive aspects of the Treaty which are, of course, simply'sustainable'. Then we can all make a balanced decision. Instead of just saying that this is bad and that this is a neo-liberal treaty, which is only good for multinationals, we then trade it in for: I have some concerns about these and these parts. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u90	This is a little entrapment. That is why I allow Mr Merkies to make a very brief comment on this, otherwise we will continue to ping-pong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u91	Firstly, as regards the democratic aspect, our concern is precisely that this undermines democracy. Nor have I heard any criticism of the treaty at all. Mr Verhoeven does exactly the opposite of what he blames us: he only mentions all the benefits. I wonder where his worries are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u92	They'll be here soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u93	They'll be here soon, but first Mrs Thieme from the Party for Animals will be here a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u94	I have not heard any benefit except the assumption that this would be very good for our prosperity, which is not even apparent from investigations. So I haven't heard any benefits. I'd like to have a word with this sad spokesperson. If we both want the world to be a little more beautiful in terms of food safety, animal welfare and human rights, why should we allow ourselves to be defeated by a free trade agreement as a barrier to trade? When we ask countries like the US to only export products to our country that meet our requirements and standards, we encourage more to be done there in terms of food safety and animal welfare. That is no longer possible if you give carte blanche to business by removing all barriers to trade. Trade between the United States and the European Union is already possible. Above all, let us inspire them to produce differently, according to our standards, and at the same time let us protect our farmers from products that do not meet them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u95	We're not giving carte blanche. We conclude treaties to have mutual rules that everyone has to abide by, so that there is a fair playing field. You should not say: everyone has to adapt completely, completely, 100% to us, because our production methods are sacred and the production methods of others are not sacred. You can see much better where we and where they have a good system and exchange it without very much lowering the total standards. The concern for the latter is indeed justified. We have always said that this should not happen. However, there are countless examples where you can simply say: the way in which something is produced in Canada or the way in which a product is tested in Canada is perhaps smarter than or as good as the way in which we do it in Europe. That's what a treaty is about. According to Mrs Thieme, such a treaty is only about the deterioration of the situation in Europe because we are overwhelmed by the way Canada does it. First of all, it's not. Secondly, they're doing a lot of things in Canada not so bad at all. Canada's not such a bad country. Canada does a lot of good, progressive things, in which the Netherlands and Canada often find each other. That is why you could have a little more confidence in their production methods instead of just saying: what they do is bad and what we do is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u96	Let me give you a very concrete example. We wanted to ban tar sand in Europe, but because it is being won in Canada and CETA is now there, the proposal to ban it has fallen into a drawer somewhere underneath. We didn't want to put the CETA negotiations at risk. That is exactly the effect of the trade agreement. So don't come up with the story that the free trade agreement is going to make things so much better and that we can learn from each other. No, the Free Trade Agreement ensures that we simply have to accept the entry of products that do not meet our standards. That's the deal. And D66 agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u97	That's another assumption. Mrs Thieme cites an example, and perhaps that is a good example. But let's turn it around. I call it "dieselgate." That was absolutely a situation in which Europe has tackled it in a much worse way than, for example, the United States. I never hear one about this kind of treaties very critical party that just admits that they've just gotten it better there than here. So it's not that everything here is better and bad. With such a treaty, you try to ensure that you can exchange products and services in such a way that you do not have to deal with twice the same test or twice the same way of checking and that sort of thing. In addition, you're just looking, and that's quite technically, for possibilities to match it on both sides. You do that by respecting each other's methods. As far as I am concerned, this should not be at the expense of democratic decisions taken by countries. This must not be the case in Canada either. Such a treaty is very much used to this end. If things go badly, then public opinion gets up and they say: we are worried about this and we are worried about that. And then they listen to it and, while the text is already ready, they also make a fucking adjustment to improve it! But all these parties, including, unfortunately, Mrs Thieme's, say: we still think it is very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u98	For a final comment, I would like to give Mrs Thieme...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u99	I don't think that's a good way to conduct politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u100	...the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u101	We do not need a free trade agreement to appeal to countries for environmentally harmful behaviour or to environmental rules that are not right. We also have bilateral opportunities for this. We even have trade barriers to defend and protect important vulnerable values. Free trade agreements put these fragile values at risk. It would be good if D66 were to make a little more effort, because now it seems as if trade is for fragile values.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u102	Now I am truly very surprised. Mrs Thieme said that bilateral treaties would be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u103	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u104	Yes, Mrs Thieme did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u105	I said not "bilateral treaties" but "bilateral agreements," for example about testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u106	Mr Verhoeven has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u107	"Bilateral agreements," as far as I'm concerned. It is therefore not good to conclude a treaty with a number of countries in which you agree on mutual trade, because then it is bad for animals, bad for the environment, bad for the climate and bad for small businesses. But if you're going to make bilateral agreements, then suddenly that's the Holy Grail of the Party for Animals. It's okay. It's okay. And what are you supposed to do with these bilateral agreements? Exactly the same! So Mrs Thieme says that she prefers not to have Europe and Canada doing it, but the Netherlands and Canada are allowed to make agreements. Like it matters. I think that's a really weird approach. Then Mrs Thieme must say: we do not want trade agreements at all, we want trade without rules. Unless you go even further, as far as I am concerned, that should also be done and say: we do not want any more trade at all. That's okay, too. But you cannot say: we are going to make bilateral agreements as an alternative to a trade agreement. That is, in fact, the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u108	If Mr Verhoeven wants to connect with me, he should not look so ugly. Really, that doesn't make us all so happy. Of course, we are dealing with agreements on the recognition of certain tests for technical matters, such as electrical outlets, but a free trade agreement leads to rules disappearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u109	Thank you. Your interruptions were already exhausted. I understand you were challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u110	Yes, but Mr Verhoeven is really turning the world upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u111	You may respond briefly to that and then we will close this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u112	I'm sorry I didn't look at Mrs Thieme a little more friendly, but she's also made it very difficult for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u113	With tearful eyes, that's hard too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u114	It was absolutely not a friendly contribution from Mrs Thieme. I'll look at her nice and friendly next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u115	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u116	Is there any interest in my speech in the rest of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u117	You have three and a half minutes left. So you can just get back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u118	I will need it to raise my concerns about this treaty. I have already said that it seems as if these parties have forgotten what immense progress, innovation and specialisation have brought us trade. As I said just now, without progress, we were still bent on the land for 16 hours every day looking for a potato. Trade, for example, has raised 1 billion people from poverty over the last 20 years. There is no better way to combat poverty worldwide. With the right rules, that is what we are talking about today: "Commerce can help to combat climate change." So my appeal to colleagues, who I have already done, is to turn all negative energy around trade agreements into positive energy, for example for that green goods initiative. I was just talking about that, but I should not be talking about the President. The negotiating partners recently published a statement on the completion of the green goods initiative in the G20. I ask the Minister if that is feasible. Let me repeat once again: D66 has a positive attitude towards trade and trade agreements, coupled with harsh conditions. First of all, social standards, labour standards and environmental standards must not be reduced, especially for Mrs Thieme. Secondly, a trade treaty must never undermine the rule of law and democracy. Thirdly, countries must remain free to make their own rules. Fourthly, special attention should be paid to SMEs. Contrary to parties today calling for or against them, I am therefore putting this treaty with Canada today along the D66 measuring bar. First of all, I have questions about the precautionary principle. This is not explicitly mentioned in the Treaty. Why not? Is it true that the principle still stands? I read the "right to regulate"... the right to regulate and continue to regulate as a country........................................................................................................................................................................................... According to the Secretary of State, is that correct? What are the main successes of the Treaty for Dutch small and medium-sized enterprises? How does trade with Canada become easier for them? We know from the treaty with the United States, which is far from being concluded, that it can generate up to 2% economic growth. It hasn't been said that it will, but it can. It can also be less; it can also be more. Is the Minister prepared to allow the CPB to pass on the economic consequences of the Canada Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u119	I couldn't resist responding to that last point. There is an impact assessment of the European Union itself, in which the economic advantage is set at 0.08% of GDP, which is around 12 billion across Europe. That's not very much, let's just say. Mr Verhoeven has just said quite clearly that environmental standards must not be brought down. That's exactly what we're worried about. Mrs Thieme mentioned the question of tar sand. I am very curious how Mr Verhoeven looks at that. In any case, we are getting signals that, in the context of CETA negotiations, it will ultimately mean that we cannot stop the parking of tar sand oil and that it does not risk being placed below a high rate. I am very curious to see what Mr Verhoeven is looking at. I see the Minister shaking no. I trust the Minister will take this up with us later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u120	Mr Grashoff says that we are getting signals that it would eventually be so. That is not very harsh, as a direct result of this treaty. Mrs Thieme mentioned it earlier. I have indeed heard this mention and I think it is absolutely a point of attention. So I absolutely agree with Mr Grashoff; I want to be very clear about that. If it were to follow directly from this agreement with Canada that the Netherlands would be forced to take over these kinds of productions, which would really surprise me, that would cause D66 a big lump of concern in the scale section. That's how honest I want to be. This could then possibly go a long way towards voting against it. Once again, however, we must be very clear about this first. Mr Grashoff is now saying, and that is often a bit of the problem: it can be so that it will eventually lead to it. So you have to look very closely at the text, which shows that the Netherlands is being forced directly by this treaty. I don't think it is, but if it is, I'm open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u121	In any case, this is the right way to talk about the essence and effects of a treaty. A general principle seems to be that you do make demands on the end quality of a product, but not on the way it was created. If that is a starting point, that means de facto that you really do come to the hollowing out of environmental standards. Mr Bruins has already reported this. Because they are a lot higher in Europe in a number of places, also in relation to Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u122	That is a very justified point by Mr Grashoff, which I simply agree with. If we insist that certain standards that we consider important in Europe should not be lowered, and this treaty will result in this being done, that will certainly be a factor for us. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's answer, but I am in the same position as Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u123	Please continue your speech, for which you have just over a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u124	Yes. I think I'll go into dispute resolution. The new ICS system is a major step forward in relation to the old system. There is more transparency, the right to regulate is secured and there will be no more bullshit claims. Is the Minister prepared to work to ensure that this model is incorporated into all the treaties that still have the old system? I think she already said that. President Juncker wants Member States to reiterate their support for the negotiating mandate. Can Member States add things, such as a specific chapter on green goods? We have already discussed my last point, but let me say it again. I think D66 is the only party with an open and attentive look at the negotiations. We have not yet adopted a definitive position on the free trade agreement with the United States. That's not always easy. I say to the other parties, just to be sure, that there is no treaty text that you can be for or against. So why all that certainty, so I ask those parties. D66 promises to take the concerns of organisations like FNV, VNO-NCW, ONL, Foodwatch and Greenpeace very seriously. We get all the pieces, read them and weigh them then. So I take it absolutely seriously, but I call on my colleagues to do the same and to let go of their concrete-cast opinion every now and then. Otherwise the debate will become so polarized that the content no longer counts. That can never lead to good results and decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u125	Mr. Chairman. I have to disappoint Mr Verhoeven, because we too are just looking openly at the treaties that are coming along, whether it is TTIP or CETA. Mr Verhoeven is right, because in the end everyone thinks a very good treaty that meets all the conditions is fine, of course. But I also hear him say that these conditions matter. I think it's time we listen to the minister. The Chamber has already said a great deal and there will be a few more speakers. I can agree with a number of speakers, which saves speaking time. I've got four points. The first has passed many times. Does it have to be a mixed treaty? We think it is, and so it has to come through here first. I can see from the Minister's mimicry that she feels the same way. I hope that she will be able to remove the doubts that appear to exist. How does the Minister ensure that the European Commission recognizes this formally quickly? What exactly did she bring to Brussels? I think there's a lot of discussion about that, too. I see her gestures again that it is not when it is brought, but I also have those doubts. I'm sure it's because of the news. Can she remove those doubts? The second point is the Grashoff/Vos motion. We supported them. It calls for a parliamentary reservation on provisional entry into force. Is that what the Minister's gonna do? What did she say about this in Brussels? On my third point, the SER conditions, Mr Bruins was quite clear. Are those conditions guiding the minister throughout the discussion? For us, they are essential to the substantive issues. As I said at the beginning of my speech, there must be a good treaty. My fourth point is the model of income in agriculture. I was talking about this with Mr Verhoeven at the time of interruption. I am a little surprised at the difference with the discussion that is taking place in the Committee on Agriculture. I am, to my luck, also a member of that committee. I also see Mr Grashoff on a regular basis, so he will recognize this point. Indeed, we have a lot of discussion about investing in animal welfare, nature and the environment, and the producers' return on these investments. Mrs Thieme is always there. We're having some very spicy discussions there. We do not always find each other in the short term, given our different positions, but for the long term, we all want farmers to be able to pay back the costs in full with a close earning model. We all want to work on more animal welfare, a better environment and more nature. However, if you enter into a treaty with TTIP or CETA and that treaty is specifically addressed in this debate, a treaty that makes Canadian producers less demanding than Dutch producers, then it will only become more difficult. It is already difficult within the European Union, because we often lead the way. If you get very large producers, who meet much less requirements, it becomes even more difficult. There are very strict rules in Europe. I just mentioned the neonicotinoids. I'm glad I'm getting that word out of my mouth soon. That is because we often have to say that in committee. I invite the Minister to do so a few times later. For example, insecticide Admire should not be used in European potato cultivation. It's okay in Canada. Here are strong discussions about banning or at least restricting Roundup and other forms of arthropods. In Canada, the drug is just allowed. Genetically modified crops are no problem in the US and Canada. It is not allowed in the EU. The same applies to plant protection products and animal welfare schemes. Let's end up with the pigs. In the Netherlands there is a lot of discussion about group accommodation. This is compulsory because it is better for pigs and because it allows them to be more pig than we do not allow them to be. That is not the case in Canada. These are very concrete things. They pass through this room over and over again. If we do not do this properly, we will either kill our farmers or our nature, the environment and animal welfare. We don't want either. Can the Minister guarantee that these very specific things will simply be arranged? Because general principles are beautiful.I would also like the precautionary principle to be included in the text.......................................................................................................................................................................................... I hope that the Minister will be able to remove the concerns, because at the moment our concerns about CETA are great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u126	You have made me a little happy with a dead sparrow, because you only have seven seconds left. So you've just been using your time. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u127	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it is good to recall at the outset that a referendum is about to take place in the United Kingdom on whether the UK should stay in the European Union or not. If the British decide to quit, they will be at a stroke of all those problems with CETA, TTIP and whatever other treaty is coming. In the Netherlands we have not yet reached this stage. The PVV would like to see a referendum on a new postit in the Netherlands as well. Let me outline this in order to give the background from which I am going to talk about this CETA Convention. We simply do not want the gentlemen in Brussels, on whom we actually have no influence at all and who do not have the Dutch interest either because they do not stand for it, to conclude all kinds of treaties for us which may have a major impact on the people of our country. We simply do not want it and will not agree to it. Now I'm going to CETA. We have read that, according to Minister Ploumen, CETA could provide an annual benefit of EUR 600 million to EUR 1.2 billion for the Netherlands. But there is also a lot of doubt about that treaty in the Netherlands, in all kinds of social sectors and also in municipalities. We receive emails from municipal bodies from The Hague to Tietjerksteradeel and Pekela. They also say: don't do that, be careful with the CETA Convention. As I said, there is a lot of criticism of that CETA agreement. The farmers' organisations have indicated that this agreement will have a negative impact on pig and beef exports. We should be curious about this, shouldn't we? I would also like to tell the Minister what these negative consequences are? Surely we should have a serious assessment of that? Before we decide anything about the CETA Convention, should we first talk about how, for example, we are going to compensate farmers' organisations, that sector, for the negative consequences? We should do that before we sign that CETA thing. In any case, the PVV will not agree to a treaty if there is no substantiated analysis of the impact on all kinds of social sectors in our country. In this respect, we can very well take an example from the United States. The United States is in the process of concluding a treaty with a number of countries on the other side of the Pacific. That treaty is called TPP. What did they meet in the United States? That is the following: before we vote on the TPP Treaty, we must first have a precise analysis of the impact on all sectors of our society. The report, which I have presented as an example, is then discussed. In the United States, that investigation was entrusted to the United States International Trade Commission, an independent government body. For all these sectors, this has investigated the impact of TPP. It is only after this report has arrived that it has recently appeared that TPP can be voted on in the United States. I think it is a good example that we should follow in the Netherlands when it comes to the CETA Convention. But wait, there's going to be another treaty that's also the title of an article today in nrc.next, and that's of course true. There will be another treaty, and that treaty is far greater than CETA in terms of its effects, and that treaty is called TTIP. For TTIP, too, you can of course ask what its impact is on the various social sectors in our country, how big these consequences are, and in particular the negative consequences and how we can cope with them. We can't see all that yet. And it gets even more complicated. We will soon be able to figure out that for sector A the CETA Convention is working negatively and that the TTIP Convention may be working negatively for sector B, but it could also be that both TTIP and CETA are negative for sector A. So you have a accumulation of negative consequences. In other words, you can no longer deal with CETA and TTIP separately. You just need to be able to oversee the overall package in order to determine what the negative consequences are and how they should be met. Then there has also been a lot of criticism of the mechanism to protect foreign investment. That disputed arbitration system ISDS has now been replaced by the Investment Court System, a new independent court to be set up. The PVV also says: we do not want that at all, we do not want any more independent international judges on whose appointment we have little or no influence whatsoever and who are about to make all kinds of decisions for us. The PVV believes that the Cabinet should work to ensure that CETA becomes a mixed agreement. Why hasn't the Netherlands done that yet? Do it anyway, I'll tell the Minister, just get on the brakes. In any case, we do not want to have provisional entry into force, nor do we want to have provisional entry into force. If necessary, go to the European Court, but make sure that these conventions can be fully discussed here in Parliament on the basis of an analysis of the impact of the TPP in the US. Then we can come to a ratification law here if we need to. We, as PVV, will also like to see that ratification law become referendable. By now, 150,000 signatures have been collected. That's the route the PVV says should be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u128	I know Mr De Roon as someone who always does his homework well, but he really lost something for a while. A little while ago, a motion was tabled by Mr Vos, co-signed by Mrs Mulder and me. That motion was only adopted with the vote against by the Party for Animals and GroenLinks. I just checked, the PVV voted in favour. In that motion, the Minister was asked to ensure that the old system, that ISDS contained in the CETA Convention, went out and entered the ICS. That's what the PVV voted for. The Minister then took up that motion and managed to do it. Now I hear Mr De Roon say: that ICS is a terrible system, first there was the ISDS and now there is that ICS and that doesn't work either, so that's what the PVV is against. What's the deal? Is the PVV against it or did she have some memory loss on that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u129	If such a motion, which Mr Teeven now refers to, sometimes you have to make a choice between two evils. One evil is ISDS. That's what we thought was the worst evil. So we didn't want that anyway. The other choice at that time was ICS. At least that was better than ISDS. So we voted in favour of that motion. I started my story tonight by explaining that we really do not want those gentlemen in Brussels to negotiate such treaties and make decisions for us. In the end, we do not want more international judges to be created than there already are, whose appointment we have little or no influence on and who are going to make decisions for us. The judges appointed under the ICS come from the European Union for only one third. So the influence of the Netherlands on this is already very limited. The other third is from Canada. We have no influence on that at all. Then there is a third that has to come from outside the EU and Canada. So they are also people on whom we have no control and whose appointments we cannot influence. So we just shouldn't want that. So that is not at odds with each other; it is all the result of the same starting point of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u130	I'm gonna try to find the connection. Everyone does that here tonight, so I'm gonna try that with Mr. De Roon. He's lost his memory after all. He supports a motion asking the government to go to work to get ICS in CETA. If you're all against that, you shouldn't support such a motion. Then you just have to say it doesn't matter to me, because I'm against everything. That is, after all, the story that Mr De Roon is holding tonight. Was it a phase of amnesia in which he sent the cabinet out with a motion signed by the PVV, or did he just not think about it tonight and he plays the card "anywhere against, it doesn't matter"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u131	Mr Teven pretends that he did not understand my statement just now. So I'll repeat it for him. It's just that we don't want the whole treaty the way it comes about. If the treaty does come, at least we don't want ISDS. The International Court System is in our opinion a degree better. That was the reason for voting in favour of the motion at the time. However, the starting point remains that we do not want it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u132	You challenge Mr Teeven to a very brief conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u133	So Mr De Roon of the PVV does not suffer from amnesia. He just chooses ICS if it's anything better. Mr Merkies of the SP leads to total amnesia. He also voted in favour of the motion, but he didn't remember tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u134	You're not working on the connection, Mr. Bitch! Mr De Roon passed his speaking time, so I will give the floor to someone who is not in the Chamber. So that's gonna be very difficult. I am talking about Mr Vos, who is now pulling a sprint to the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u135	Mr. Chairman. You sometimes read in the comments of the newspapers on the political topicality that there is a sharp polarisation of debate in these times. You can see that a little bit tonight, too. On one side of the room are the opponents of free trade, who do not miss an argument to break down the treaty under discussion today, CETA. On the other hand, you will hear jubilant hosanna stories from the liberals of this Chamber, including comparisons with the Middle Ages. I'm always interested in that historical perspective. If you take that into account, you must of course note that there have been periods of liberalism, free trade and mercantilism much earlier. I refer to Florence, a state in which there was a great deal of free trade. However, as I say to the liberal groups, there were also huge differences in income. The gini coefficient was 0.8 there. If you know that it is now 0.27 in the Netherlands and in the U.S. for a moment out of my mind... 0.34, then you realize that a lot of people were very rich but that there were many more people very poor. 40% of the population of Florence was pauper and had nothing at all, I say to the liberal parties. Another element to which you can see how to organize society in a historical perspective is the average length of an individual. That is a very nice archaeological way to see how prosperous the population was. According to the well-known literature, one can see that in the Middle Ages about the length of Mr Verhoeven, but that the length of man since then, until about the late nineteenth century, has declined. I see a surprised look from the Minister. From my head it was a decrease of 1.74 meters, 1.76 meters, so about the length of Mr Verhoeven, to 1.62 meters, 1.64 meters in the nineteenth century. What made the difference now? That was not free trade, but the way in which society was organized. What happened at the end of the nineteenth century? Then the corporations came up, then the unions came up. Then society was organized in a way that gave people in all sections of the population the chance to take advantage of the prosperity that the industrial revolution had brought. Parties such as the predecessors of the CDA have made an important contribution to this, as have parties such as the Labour Party. These parties are rooted in this tradition and have made an important contribution to it. Before I express the position of the Labour Party on the free trade agreement to be concluded, I would like to make the international comparison. There are two directions you can go. You can work with other countries together you stand strong, the Labour Party has always found you or you can only take a path. Then you come to Romania in 1989 or North Korea today, in the autarkian state. Between these two extremes we have to move, but I think it's always clear that you can work together better than just walking down the path. The nationalism I hear from some parties, as if we have everything better and know everything better, does not do justice to the historical and international-comperative knowledge that we have. We should not go down that path. However, we must set firm conditions for the trade agreement as it stands. The Labour Party has done the same in recent years. Many of the elements that we have brought into the debate have come back to the treaty that is now before us. Mr Teeven has already referred to one of the motions that we have tabled together, and I have tabled another motion with Mr Grashoff. However, there are two other points on which I am particularly concerned. My first point concerns labour rights. If there is a provisional application of part of CETA, it must be discussed here in the Chamber, in accordance with the motion I tabled together with my colleague from GroenLinks. I would like the Minister's firm commitment to ensure that labour rights are fully guaranteed in such a provisional application in accordance with the CETA text and that there is not a piece of detail. I would also like to be promised that the lively agreement that is CETA, which will continue to guarantee the labour rights that we have now described in it, will be fully 100%. My second point concerns an international tribunal such as the ICS. I am convinced that we also need such a public tribunal for our companies and our interests. However, I would also like trade unions, NGOs and civil society, which were so important in the distribution of our prosperity at the end of the nineteenth century and in the revival of human body length, to have access to that tribunal. I would ask the Minister to look again very carefully at how she can shape this in the future. The ICS is still new and we still have a very long way to go with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u136	We have the extremely sensible Grashoff/Jan Vos motion. In the happy case of CETA becoming a mixed treaty, I am very curious to know which parts of the treaty Mr Vos believes should be dealt with in this national parliament. For example, I call that court system, the ICS. Would that be one of the elements that Mr Vos believes is covered by the treaty and should therefore be dealt with here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u137	It is the Commission's competence to decide whether or not it is a mixed treaty. The Commission has requested an opinion from the Court. Depending on the Court's opinion, the Commission will submit a proposal for consideration to the Council of Trade Union Ministers, the Council of Minister Ploumen. I do not need to discuss here with each other what we want or do not want to agree on in this provisional application. But I want what's ahead here to be agreed and discussed. That's why I filed the motion. The extent to which the debate focuses on determining what is happening here, before anything has happened, is not in line with the constitutional view that I have of the Chamber. The Chamber controls and the government rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u138	We are here tonight in the happy event that the Minister is present, that she has a meeting on 20 June and that we can still give her messages. We could, for example, ask her to call for certain parts of the treaties to be mixed. So we do have a chance tonight. You can see that the Chamber often fish behind the net for this kind of free trade agreement. Then it is said: it has already happened; you are now too late. Now we're on time, Mr. Fox. What are you going to do to ensure that this Parliament can really have influence and send messages to the Minister before 20 June, when she represents the Netherlands in that Council, where she is going to talk about CETA on behalf of the Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u139	I find it very sad for the Christian Union that people feel that they are fishing behind the net. I don't have that impression at all. I have had extremely constructive discussions with the Minister over the last four years. Partly for this reason, the ISDS, that odious private tribunal, has been shot down and a beautiful ICS has replaced it. That is why labour rights are as well guaranteed as we now see in this treaty. That is why we have prevented a race to the bottom in the environmental field. So I don't feel like I'm fishing behind the net at all. If there's anything else you'd like to share with the Minister, you have your term. I have indicated that I do not need it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u140	I understand: the PvdA has no messages for this minister. Well, that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u141	Yeah, this is of a level that doesn't really do justice to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u142	Mr Vos always says that he thinks the ICS is a very nice system. At the same time, he indicates that he wants to have a few things taken care of that are not in there right now. I would then like to ask where the border is. What organisations should have access to this legal system? We have a legal system that all these groups, organisations and companies already have access to, to which international companies also have access, to which individual citizens, you and I, have access and to which small and medium-sized enterprises in the Netherlands also have access. Why does Mr Vos promote a parallel system and does he want to add a few more groups to it? Isn't that a legitimation to add them all? I think we should do better to incorporate that into our ordinary legal system than to take this wondrous intermediate route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u143	I will explain this to Mr Grashoff. I went to Colombia with the Minister and a fellow member of the Chamber. There have been terrible violations of human rights in Colombia. American mining companies, not the most friendly mining companies, have financed paramilitaries who have committed these crimes there. That's where trade unionists were killed. For decades, trade unions, non-governmental organisations and human rights organisations have been trying to achieve their right and their right. Where should they do that, Mr Grashoff? That's what they have to do in Texas, because that's where that company is based. I give it to you to go to an American judge in Texas. I don't know if you've ever been there. I just happened to look at a court of law once. That man in Texas has nothing to buy with those people in Colombia. He has not honored those human rights violations claims in any way. He has not helped those people there in any way, but has supported the interests of those American companies. A legal system in a well-functioning rule of law is not necessarily also suitable for resolving international disputes. That is why we have this system and that is why I support it. You'd do well to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u144	Now Mr Vos is really confusing a few things. I could imagine that if there were a proper legal system in Colombia, a Colombian judge, like a Dutch judge, would end these abuses, whether it was an international company or not. If these abuses were to occur in the Netherlands, the Dutch judge would simply draw a line through them and the police would insist that the company be closed if necessary. That is the legal system we know here. We're not Colombia. If you want to have such a legal system in Colombia, you have to make sure that that is indeed accessible to everyone there. That is the problem. A parallel legal system that is only partially accessible... you can broaden that accessibility a little bit... remains a parallel legal system that by its nature entails legal inequality between parties here in the Netherlands and later in Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u145	It's not that simple. Another parallel: The city of The Hague wonders at what level one is immediately liable, if a company in the geographical area of the municipality of The Hague is held liable. Can the municipality of The Hague be held liable, the Dutch State or that company and how is it regulated in such an international treaty? These are exactly the elements that differ from one country to another: the number of levels of government you have and the powers that a layer of government has. That goes for us as politicians, administratively, but in the legal system you have exactly the same story. In the Netherlands you have the district court, the Supreme Court and blah blah blah. The question is, where are you supposed to be? It's different in every country. What you are doing now with such an international treaty is saying: listen, because we work together at country level or if several countries work together, we have one system and we make precise agreements about how we deal with each other. That's very wise, because that means you can get your rights as a company. I think it would be very wise if you could work together economically. As has happened before in the Chamber today, these Canadians are not crazy either. On the United Nations Human Development Index, they're number nine and we're number five. It is one of the most developed countries in the world. I also liked Mr Verhoeven's argument: they liberated the Netherlands when the Germans were here. I think it is a very good country to cooperate, on the condition that I have stated: a strong civil society that, like at the end of the nineteenth century, ensures a good distribution of prosperity. It should not be a select group of liberals with money who will earn an extra penny. The point is that this prosperity is shared fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u146	A brief final remark, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u147	I believe that even the words of Mr Vos himself show that there is no reason for trade between Canada and Europe to come up with a parallel legal system, where both already have a good legal system. That can be removed without a single problem. That saves a lot of bureaucratic costs. The legal uncertainty in the Netherlands for parties in the Netherlands is decreasing and not increasing with a parallel legal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u148	Mr. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u149	It is not a question of whether the legal system is right. The point is that you organize it in such a way that people have proper access to that system. The way in which Mr Grashoff deals with the framette, I cannot call it otherwise, does not do justice to the fact that we settle disputes in very different ways in societies and between societies. In this case, after a great deal of pressure from his group's Chamber, from the SP and from all kinds of other political groups, a new system has been designed, with a great deal of commitment from this cabinet and colleagues from the minister in other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u150	With the PvdA Group, the CDA Group believes that an important step has been taken from ISDS to ICS. In the treaty we are currently negotiating with the United States, namely TTIP, that is something that is still going on, which could be further improved. Fortunately, we have now received an improved version in the CETA Convention. Suppose, however, that there will be further improvements. How are we going to get them in the CETA Convention in the end? That is why I ask Mr Vos of the PvdA Group if he sees a particular route for this. The CDA would like to hear from the Minister how we are going to do that and how many countries we will have to deal with later. Is one country, the Netherlands, sufficient to bring that up, do you need ten countries from Europe or perhaps more? Has the PvdA Group thought about that too? Such steps could, of course, still be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u151	What Mrs Mulder of the CDA says is, of course, quite right. That ICS we actually came up with for TTIP. This is the result of the debates on TTIP. We said to Minister at the time: listen, we still have that CETA and can't we ride that ICS in there, too? The Minister said: difficult, difficult, because we are at the stage of legal scrubbing, so we are actually done and we just have to make the legal points. Nevertheless, she said at the request of this Chamber, because all those groups wanted it so badly that it would bring in that ICS, that public legal system. Now it's brought in, and now there's still criticism everywhere. I don't think that's right. I understand Mrs Mulder's point. I also understand that she says it is only a first step. CETA is what is called a "living trade treaty," a living agreement. This means that we will continue to negotiate it in the coming years. It also means that the ICS, which we have actually only laid the foundations of, will have to be built further. That is precisely why I said that there should be access for NGOs and trade unions to ICS or a comparable public dispute resolution tribunal. I would like to discuss with Mrs Mulder how we can further improve this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u152	I'm glad to hear that. As far as I am aware, there is no escape option in the Treaty at present and no possibility of adapting it in the future. Even if it is a living treaty, it doesn't say how we do it now. I would like to know how we can do that, together with the PvdA Group. Maybe the Minister can make a commitment on this tonight. Maybe she can tell us how she's gonna handle that tonight. I can see her thinking and doing a lot of work right now. I appreciate that. However, this is a matter of concern to the CDA Group, and I note that it is also a matter of concern to the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u153	In this way, Mrs Mulder of the CDA adequately summarises our positions, which are in line. I look forward with interest to the Minister's reply. We can then perhaps come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u154	Mr Vos has concluded his speech. I call Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u155	Mr. Chairman. We are approaching the moment when Europe may wish to adopt the first of the two major trade agreements, CETA. The CDA has always said that free trade could provide a great deal for our country, but that this will require a level playing field. On 28 April we all tabled motions for resolutions on this subject, and we also said a few words about this. This was particularly true of our agricultural sector, where differences would be greatest. A very important prerequisite for the status of CETA is that it should be mixed agreements. The Dutch Parliament has already said that it wants mixed treaties. The CDA also wants CETA to be a mixed treaty. The Minister is committed to this. She confirmed this in her letter of 20 April. However, we are concerned about this, given the way in which this was done in the association agreement with Ukraine. This shows that provisional entry into force before the Treaty is fully ratified can lead to a stalemate. That's what the CDA is so annoying about. To what extent do we run the risk of going back into such a stalemate with CETA? In response to questions from my colleague Mr Omtzigt, the cabinet states that decisions on provisional entry into force in the Council must be taken unanimously. This means that the Netherlands can therefore block provisional entry into force. The Minister confirmed this last week in the answers to written questions on CETA. In the questions that have been answered today, the Minister states that the legal basis for provisional entry into force also depends on whether it is decided on the basis of unanimity or a qualified majority. To what extent does that correspond to the answers to Mr Omtzigt's questions? Is there air in there? The legal basis proposed by the European Commission defines what falls within the competence of the EU and what does not. It also determines what will enter into force for the time being and what will not. When are decisions to be taken on the basis of unanimity and when are decisions to be taken on the basis of qualified majority voting? Does the cabinet decide by qualified majority on the European Commission's proposal? Then how is the decision-making procedure before the entry into force of the mixed part? And what is it like for the EU part? We understand from the legal service of the European Parliament that the European Commission intends to send the final text to the Council and the European Parliament by 7 July. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. At what point is the approval of national parliaments requested? Could that mean we have to come back from recess in the middle of the summer? Don't you have to? Can the Minister stop things? I ask her to clarify this. We would also like it to undertake to do everything in its power to ensure that the Convention does not enter into force before the Court has given a ruling on the Singapore trade agreement. I have just spoken briefly with Mr Vos about ICS. Is that indeed a living, learning document? My group believes that this is very important. Can we talk to Canada about this later and can it be adapted in the future? And, if so, how does that work? My group is very keen to be clear about this from the Minister. Like other parties, the CDA would like to know what the cabinet president Juncker will tell us about the negotiating mandate for TTIP. What's the cabinet gonna bring in? That is essential at the moment. The CDA is proud of our European environmental and animal welfare standards. We have built them carefully together for a reason. Is the Minister going to make a big deal of effort so that we do not throw away the baby with the bath water at that point? We'd like a mixed treaty. We want to be able to speak openly about all the ins and outs and see if we can finally approve it. A level playing field is essential and very important for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u156	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the future of the Netherlands as a trading country, where many companies make money from the export of goods and services, and where the economy has recently been growing structurally again. This debate is also about a number of other issues, namely the concerns that many people live or seem to live on both conventions, CETA and TTIP. The concerns that seem to live are sometimes based not on facts but on images. Sometimes they are created images, but sometimes these images already exist among residents of the Netherlands. Both CETA and TTIP create concerns in the Netherlands. Those are legitimate concerns. People wonder if there's a chance of negative effects. Are the standards going down as we know them in the Netherlands? Mrs Mulder also spoke about this. Are food standards going backwards? That is what Mr Grashoff asked. Will working conditions deteriorate? That is what Mr Vos talked about when he talked about the guarantee of working conditions. Is the minimum wage going down? Will investors........ that is the other side of the coin... be no longer well protected by the ICS now that it has replaced ISDS? Even if you look at all these concerns, which you can't wave away, you will also have to pay attention as a VVD to them.We still shouldn't let the world decide which direction we should go as the Netherlands. It is up to us to decide which way we want to go. That's very important. I'd like to ask the Minister to reflect on that. It is very important that the cabinet makes that effort. The results of the thirteenth round of negotiations of TTIP are not yet clear. We do not yet know the results of this. The VVD wants the Netherlands to improve and that there are no negative consequences for local and regional democracy. Those concerns also live in the Netherlands. Our standards must remain or even improve our standards. But the VVD also sees that many of these issues already exist, without TTIP or CETA, without those treaties. The real question is how are we going to solve these issues? How are we going to reduce costs for companies? How are we going to develop standards that are accepted on both sides of the ocean? In other words, how do we improve the current situation? If it is up to the VVD, we do so by setting higher standards in trade agreements, so that a product only needs to be inspected once, a product does not need to be transported unnecessarily and storage costs are reduced. These standards should apply to Canada and the US on the one hand and Europe on the other. Those standards must be mixed and cost-saving. These standards should be beneficial to small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Verhoeven also drew attention to this today. These conventions, CETA and TTIP, are not for multinationals. They are precisely for small and medium-sized enterprises. The VVD supports the ESC opinion. In the opinion of the VVD, the European Commission can and should state more strongly that environmental, labour, health and safety standards will not be reduced. We are also confident that this will happen. If you're going to read regularly in that dark room, you know something about it. CETA and TTIP contribute to the implementation of high standards in world trade. Where our standards are lower than those in the US, our level of protection must be raised. In other areas, these levels will have to be brought together. New products entering the EU will not fall short of our standards, as products will have to comply with EU legislation at all times. In that sense, I see no difference between the statements made by the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and this Minister. I believe that there is a complete unity of government policy, but I ask the Minister to confirm this once again. Those who have taken the trouble to read all the documents see that the European Commission is committed to this. I will conclude with a few brief questions in the 40 seconds that remain to me. What is the prime role of the Minister in resolving disputes? What will be the stakes on? What is she going to do with TTIP? I commend her for what she has achieved with CETA. What is the position of the Netherlands on Juncker's question? What will the Minister say on 28 and 29 June? And is the authorisation granted by the Netherlands in 2013 changed by the Netherlands? Is the government committed to ICS in both treaties? That was stated in the motion by Mr Vos, Mr Teeven and Mr Mulder. And is the government also committed to the provisional entry into force of CETA? Unlike most political groups, the VVD has no objection to the provisional entry into force of CETA, especially if it becomes an "EU only" treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u157	Mr. Teeven wants a lot, but I'm getting warmed up by what he wants. Do I understand correctly that, since the VVD was the only party to vote against the Grashoff/Vos motion, the VVD really does not need to discuss CETA in this Parliament and that it should be dismissed as an "EU only" treaty in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u158	It is exactly as Mr Verhoeven of D66 said in his speech that we are not going to deal with it in this Chamber. It is the Commission that consults the European Parliament and takes a position on the legal basis. You can find anything in this parliament, but we're not going over it. If it is an "EU only" treaty, it does not make much sense to talk about provisional entry into force. But even if it is a mixed agreement, the provisional entry into force of the EU part of the agreement is likely to be possible, even if we, as a Member State, still have to talk about the national part. That is why the VVD also voted against the Vos/Grashoff motion, because we did not see why we should be happy with a dead sparrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u159	The answer is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u160	A decision on the European Union-S Singapore Treaty is currently awaited. This can lead to a change in the basis and we are going to opt for mixed agreements. Would Mr Teeven like to wait for that, or does he think we can go ahead? Does he say: if it turns out that it is mixed afterwards, then perhaps it is a bit annoying that the treaty has already entered into force for the time being, but well, are we just going to buy it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u161	Let us first see what the Commission says on 7 July or 20 June. Opinions are still somewhat divided as to what the legal basis of the CETA Convention is, namely whether it is an "EU only" treaty or a mixed agreement. Now that I hear Mrs Mulder's question, I am still curious to hear from the Minister what has become of the opinion requested by the European Court of Justice on CETA. If we know what the opinion of the European Court has been, we will not need the ruling on the Singapore agreement. If we know that, we'll take a stand. I am actually doing the same thing as Mr Verhoeven: I am not going to brainstorm about what it could be. First of all, we need to know what the Commission is dealing with, and then we need to know what the advice is. If Singapore is still important, we will hear about it, but that certainly does not prevent the provisional entry into force of an EU part. It is a good treaty, I say to Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u162	Does the VVD argue that the non-EU part should not enter into force, also in view of the experience we have with the Ukraine Treaty? It turns out that you can end up in very nasty situations afterwards. Does the VVD want to be in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u163	The CDA Group assumes that there is a non-EU part, but we do not know that at the moment at all. We will have to wait for the European Commission's position. The Minister can, of course, take a stand on this and say that he wants a mixed agreement, but let us wait and see what Commissioner Malmström says about it first. We in the VVD Group would like to know what the European Court has said about this. We will then notice what the European Council says about this. I think that is all a bit ahead of schedule. It's all a little "if, if, if" and then we get a certain result. I have to say that the Minister has made a huge effort to implement the Jan Vos/Bitches/Agnes Mulder motion. This has brought about a real improvement in the settlement of disputes in CETA. The Minister has played a leading role. I actually had to praise her for that, what I'm doing here. That's the profit. It is not always the case with our group, but it has great confidence in this minister, who is in the cabinet on behalf of the Labour Party. She really knows how to find the balance. I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u164	I share the compliments that the VVD spokesperson gives to the Minister on what she has achieved in relation to our joint motion. Still, I'm curious about the following. The Minister writes in her letter to the House of Representatives on 20 April that she is striving for the mixed treaty. Doesn't the VVD Group and the Minister seek that mixed agreement? I'm gonna keep thinking that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u165	I have just praised the Minister exuberantly, but she may be a bit ahead of the troops on this point. We have to wait and see what the outcome of the Commission's communication is and then of the European Council. Perhaps the Minister should return to her first initiative. Let's see what comes out of it. The VVD Group awaits that. Mr Verhoeven said it so nicely: we are not talking about it, so we can all sit here and brainstorm, but the Dutch Parliament really is not about the legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u166	I'm gonna go on at this point anyway. It is as if Mr Teeven has no opinion at all on this. I have the feeling that, certainly in his background, he would have an analysis of whether he would find an EU only agreement or a mixed agreement according to the nature of the law. In my view, the government's position so far is that there is, logically, a mixed agreement. Does Mr Teeven not share the government's view? If so, is he planning to do something with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u167	I do have opinions about things. When I look at TTIP, I am almost sure that the legal basis is a mixed agreement. I think that on the basis of the documents I read, on the basis of what the Commission tells us and on the basis of what I read about the negotiating rounds. At CETA, however, I am not so convinced of that. It's nice to brainstorm here. This also happened a bit in the Grashoff/Jan Vos motion. That is also one of the reasons why we voted against it, as the only group in this Parliament. Because we don't really feel like brainstorming about things that we're just not about. We just want to know the following. There's a certain result. The Commission sends a communication from the European Parliament to the Council, which I am trying to establish at the same time. The Commission then asks for an opinion from the European Court, as the government also wanted, and the European Council comes next. Let us look at the voting relationship in the European Council. Then we will be discussed. That's the order. That is something Mr Grashoff should appeal to as a supporter of the Treaty of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u168	I just understood that the Luxembourg Parliament has decided to wait until the Court's assessment as to whether ICS can and is in accordance with European law. That seems to me to be the first thing we should know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u169	I think Mr Grashoff is saying something else now. He's about ICS now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u170	Mr Teeven, Mr Grashoff has the floor. After that, you may.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u171	I would specifically like to ask about this approach to ICS and its assessment by the Court. That's right. That's my second question of interruption. This is indeed about another aspect; Mr Teeven is quite right. I'm still looking forward to his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u172	That's good. In any case, we have settled the legal basis. First let's talk to the people who are going to talk about it and then we'll look at it as a Lower House ourselves. That's the right order. ICS is a whole different story. Mr Grashoff is well aware that the VVD Group is extremely in favour of ICS..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For the people in the country it is better to see what is happening. So you can see what is decided in dispute resolution. The VVD Group was therefore strongly in favour of it. So I wouldn't know in advance why ICS couldn't. Yes, this is a long answer, because it was a legal question. Mr Grashoff referred to "parallel justice." I don't see that. There's nothing so uneven as comparing apples to pears. You shouldn't compare apples to pears, because then you get an uneven outcome. Companies in the Netherlands have to sue through the court and the administrative court and then have to go to the Council of State. Companies abroad are going to sue our companies if they go to the United States and Canada via ICS. There's nothing wrong with that. In a number of European countries, as well as in a number of states in the United States, courts of law are very often in favour of national companies. Dutch SMEs are the victims of this. Mr Grashoff should not speak to that. So I don't see why ICS couldn't. Of course, Luxembourg may decide that, but there are more countries. The Walloon Parliament has also said to the Belgian federal government: don't forget to vote for a moment; don't join us, because for the time being we think you shouldn't go through. Yes, there are countries that do, but that is not the position of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u173	Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u174	Mr Teeven needs a lot of words, but I have a feeling he's just turning around a little bit. If I have understood correctly, the VVD Group does not consider it desirable that there should be a clear ruling from the Court on the possibility of introducing ICS and the possible conflict with the European legal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u175	No, then Mr Grashoff did not understand my words correctly. We think that's pretty important. The European Court of Justice is perfectly entitled to rule on this, but we do not think that this is a reason why a red light should go in the direction of the government and why this minister, who is so well-guarded in this whole process, should step on the ho-iron. This Minister is very capable of finding that balance right. If there is a ruling from the European Court of Justice, she will know that it must be put in place as soon as that ruling is opposed to the Commission's position. So I have a great deal of confidence in that; Mr Grashoff does not have that. It's okay. GroenLinks is often a bit more suspicious; that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u176	Mr Teven has been asked a few times what he thinks of EU only. Actually, he keeps diving away a little bit from that question, because he keeps saying that we're not about that. However, you could give your own opinion on this, but let me ask you differently: is he a bit upset that we are not talking about this and that it is regulated in the Treaty of Lisbon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u177	A number of years ago, the VVD took a position on this with its full sense. If you think carefully, you know this could be the consequence. Let us be clear: I am not upset about that, but I have just said that I think TTIP is going to be a mixed agreement and that I could understand that CETA is going to be an "EU only" treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u178	The cabinet has indicated its commitment to this. Will Mr Teeven give his full support to this commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u179	This government, in particular in the person of this minister, has proved to our group by its actions that it is always looking for the balance. It's okay if the Minister thinks otherwise. That is what we think we can do in this government; that is why this group and this government have been around for a long time. We believe that she has the opportunity to take that position, but in the end the Commission is going to take a position on it, not this Minister. From the VVD Group, this minister has the room to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u180	Finally, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u181	Mr Teven keeps ducking away for my question. My question is specifically what he thinks. In any case, the cabinet wants to work for this; this is what the cabinet has indicated in a letter. I'm not asking if the cabinet has that opportunity and that space. I ask whether Mr Teeven supports this commitment and whether he agrees that a mixed treaty should be agreed and not for EU only.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u182	I have made it clear that the VVD Group thinks TTIP is a mixed agreement and CETA is an "EU only' agreement. We will have to wait for the outcome from the Commission. We'll see what the minister thinks should affect. She's going to write a nice letter about that and we're going to debate that with each other. However, the Minister also knows what the commitment is: if the EU is only, it will simply enter into force. There is nothing we can do about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u183	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister asked for a twenty-minute suspension for the preparation of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u184	Let me make a few brief comments in advance. Mrs Thieme has been excused, but her colleague is following the debate. I have also agreed with Members that we will restrict ourselves somewhat: we will do the interruptions in two, no longer in three. That's how we're trying to speed things up. We are keen to end the debate no later than 11.45 p.m. So that's what we're aiming for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u185	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their questions and comments. I would also like to thank them, if I may, for asking for this debate. There could not have been a better time to discuss the issues that have been discussed here today than today, tomorrow or yesterday, or at least sometime in these weeks. I am now indicating how to build up the response so that Members know where they stand. The first part concerns the procedure. Where are we now? What's gonna happen in the next few weeks? When will parliament hear from the minister again? When are we gonna talk? And how do we ensure that Parliament can give to the Minister what it should take with it? The second part deals with the substantive questions on CETA. I will also deal with some of the substantive questions on TTIP. This concerns, for example, the precautionary principle, but also pesticides. Finally, I want to talk about ICS. How's that going? And how do we proceed with that? Where are we now? I think this is the most important question. What's gonna happen? The Commission is expected to present a proposal for signing and provisional application by the EU at the beginning of July, not on 20 June. That is the Commission's proposal. Then nothing happens. No Council is convened, but the Commission sends it, to say the least, to all Member States. We will see from this proposal what kind of agreement the Commission will have to reach: an EU only agreement or a mixed agreement. Then we have an RBZ (the Foreign Affairs Council) in September. For that, as usual, I just assume that there is an AO. Nothing happens for the Council in September: there is no informal consultation and the ministers do not meet. Unless it's going to have to be different, but this is the expectation. I repeat today the government's position on a number of issues relating to CETA. Until I speak to the Chamber again, that view will not change, although it will also depend on the motions that the Chamber may table next. So nothing changes unless the Chamber wants it to. The Grashoff/Jan Vos motion is therefore fully operational. The European Commission is also aware of this motion. There's always an AO before we pronounce in an RBZ, and now too, so that motion is just being carried out. If the Commission submits a proposal in which it says it must be an "EU only" agreement, then the Council can, by unanimity, turn it into a mixed agreement. If the Commission is to come up with such a proposal, the September IAB is a good time to bring it up. The Netherlands, the cabinet has always said that this agreement, but also TTIP, must be a mixed agreement. The cabinet still has that position. All the other Member States had that position, the last time I spoke to them. It is therefore reasonable that, should the Commission come forward with a proposal for EU only, this issue should be discussed at the Council in September. Unless the Chamber decides otherwise by way of motion, I will continue to express the view that the Netherlands believes it should be a mixed agreement. I would also like to make it quite clear that this also means that the provisional application does not start until it has been decided with the Chamber. I would like to say, after this, that I am not going to say again that nothing will happen without talking to the Dutch Parliament. Let's just assume it's a... no, I'm gonna put it a little more neutral. In the case of a mixed agreement, which we would very much welcome, it is necessary to determine which parts will be subject to provisional application and which will not. Negotiations on this will take place in the Council. We expect the Commission to come forward with a proposal in the summer. We'll take note of that. That is what we are discussing with the Chamber again. The Council is therefore going to negotiate with the Commission the proposal that the Commission has made on what it considers to be provisional and what not. We can then discuss all kinds of issues before the IAZ, knowing what the Commission's proposal is. So there is nothing going on in the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u186	I took a look at the clerk's office. As far as we can see now, there is an AO scheduled for 14 September. The Chamber may therefore assume that the Council will take place in September after the 14th.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u187	Sure. As I know, the Council is on 23 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u188	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u189	What about the leaked minutes of the Trade Council which included the list of countries in favour of a mixed agreement? The Netherlands is not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u190	The Netherlands has always said at all times that it is in favour of a mixed agreement, as I said before that Council. It is true that we did not express ourselves explicitly in that Council. That has everything to do with us being President and our position being well known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u191	That makes it a bit difficult, because the Chamber has explicitly said, with a very large majority, that it is hard to do so. We have also had other debates here; for example, I have had many debates with the State Secretary on taxation. On occasion, despite the Dutch Presidency, he has put forward positions on behalf of the whole Chamber, which were not my views. That's what this Secretary of State can do, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u192	This Secretary of State is Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u193	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u194	But the same goes for the rest, Mr Merkies. I could have, but I didn't, because our position is well known. We were the first in the Council to look for the minutes or the report in a Council, but on the occasion of the vote. Our position was well known. To be honest, I have assumed that Mr Merkies also knows that position and understands that we are simply holding it. I have also heard no one questioning the position of the Netherlands in this regard. So let's get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u195	We've just agreed that we're doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u196	Oh, I thought we could make a closing remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u197	No, that's in threes. I told you to do it in two. That is why I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u198	We've heard that before, but you still have a chance to convince others. If you don't say anything, you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u199	We'll hold that position. All my colleagues know that position too. Once again, the Netherlands was the first to express itself explicitly in the Council. No one has doubted this in the contacts with colleagues in recent weeks. In the RBZ of 23 September, I am going to assume that, of course, we still think that is what we are doing with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u200	In itself, I get that. The Minister is also crystal clear about her position. Yet this has given some noise on the line, whatever you think of it. Is there therefore no elegant solution to ensure that the position of the Netherlands is crystal clear in the future? The Presidency will end, but let's say it still exists in the coming period. If it can't be through the meeting, then maybe by a letter that's coming anyway. It doesn't have to be an extra letter. Is that an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u201	I don't want any noise on the line, because it's complicated enough. I honestly think it's over now and that there's no new problem, but if I think there's a new problem, I'll get a solution right away, because I find this annoying. Once again, I understood the point correctly, but no one in Europe really doubts the commitment of the Netherlands in this matter. I am going to answer some of the questions on the content in a moment, but of course we can also discuss them in preparation for the Council in September. This is particularly true of everything relating to provisional application, I would like to make it quite clear. A number of members asked whether the Council should be unanimous in changing the nature of the agreement. Mr Grashoff just asked me again. For the sake of clarity, the Treaty of Lisbon lays down that the basic rule in commercial policy is qualified majority. There are a number of exceptions to this rule, which are contained in the Treaty. One of the exceptions is: if the character of the Treaty needs to be changed. Can parts of CETA be applied provisionally without the approval of the Member States? Provisional application by the EU also requires EU decision-making. That happens, again, all in the Council. Therefore, the provisional application of CETA cannot and will not start until the Council has agreed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u202	Is that a qualified majority or a unanimous majority? How does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u203	If you want to change the qualification of the chord, I think it's unanimous. As far as provisional application is concerned, I have to check it out. I will come back to that in second term. I think that happens by qualified majority, because everything actually happens by qualified majority, but I want to be sure. Mr Bruins asked if I was accidentally violating the Constitution. That's something I wouldn't want on my conscience. Fortunately, that is not the case. If it were an "EU only" agreement, the parliamentary procedure would take place in the European Parliament in Brussels. In that sense, it would not come here either. If it is a mixed agreement, there will be a legislative path along the lines we know, and it is right to follow the way in which we have regulated this in our Constitution. Mrs. Mulder asked what a living treaty means. I am going to give two answers: a formal and an informal answer. The formal answer is that CETA has a specific review clause in Article 30.2. Both parties can at any time state that they would like to amend the provisions of the Treaty, but that must of course go through the internal approval procedures. For example, within the EU, Finland cannot say that it does not like Article 18.3 and that it needs to be amended, because that has to be determined with each other. That's the formal route. As regards ICS and other provisions, I would remind you that I said at an OECD meeting last week that I think free trade needs a reset. I will explain what I mean by that and why I am putting this forward now. With CETA and TTIP, we have taken a number of major steps. The Chamber remembered that, too. I distinguish four different types. One: there must be transparent negotiation. Two: the concerns that live in societies, such as concerns about ICS, need to be addressed. Three: our standards should not be called into question. Four: sustainability, working conditions, labour law and the right to regulate must be explicitly considered. I believe that we have made good progress on these points. My Canadian colleague was there last week and I thanked her for recording ICS. However, I also told her what the ESC suggested and what is living in this Chamber about possible further improvements. In any case, we will talk bilaterally, but I also hope to speak further with a larger group of experts to see what further improvements we see, including on the basis of evaluations that are being carried out. I believe that free trade should benefit everyone. It's supposed to help spread the prosperity we're generating. Canada feels very at home at that point. There is therefore a formal route and a route that is further deepened in bilateral contacts. I will inform the Chamber further after the summer about how we see this exactly. This is, of course, also very much linked to the appreciation of the ESC opinion by the cabinet, which is coming soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u204	I thank the Minister for her formal and informal reply. However, I would like to make the informal answer a little more formal. I want to prevent us from looking at each other and saying that this was not exactly the intention, and that we are not learning enough from it. I want to avoid saying that Mr Trudeau is gone again, there is someone else who is very conservative and suddenly doesn't want to, and there goes our standards. So the CDA would like to know more about that. Does the Minister undertake to give that informal route a more formal status in a letter? Is that what I hear the Minister say? That could prevent a motion from my side. Or can I help the Minister with a motion so that she can do the good things for us in Europe? A motion could be supportive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u205	Let me give you an example. In CETA is now the ICS between Canada and the EU. We have agreed with the Canadians that we are going to try to make ICS a multilateral court, in which all countries can participate. I would like to point out that type of improvement points, which we simply cannot arrange one-on-one because others are also needed, in a letter, partly in response to the ESC opinion. I will go into the steps that are still possible, but which we cannot take bilaterally, and with whom we are going to talk about. In the meantime, of course, we will continue the formal route and nothing will happen to the standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u206	I'll let this answer settle down and see what I'll do with it in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u207	I'll come back to the procedure for a moment. The Minister made it clear that there is no doubt about the position of the Netherlands. However, there seems to be some doubts about the position of some other Member States. Is that what we're getting at, or is that serious information? I call it the United Kingdom and Finland. Can the Minister assess whether there is indeed unanimity in the Council to change the treaty from EU only to a mixed agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u208	We have not discussed this point very extensively in the last RBZ, in the sense that everyone has expressed their views on it. The fact is that the last time we did that, all Member States felt that it should be a mixed agreement. It may well be that some Member States have second thoughts about this, but they have not reached me, either formally or informally. I honestly assume that unanimity is within reach. And if that is not the case, I would like to say to the Chamber that I will talk to colleagues in order to convince them, if necessary, of the fact that it should be a mixed agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u209	Thank you for that answer. It's nice that that bet would at least be there. Of course, this has a political component that is linked to the conviction of what is sensible in this case. There is also a legal component to it, because the question of whether it is an EU only treaty or a mixed treaty is, of course, not just a political one. This depends on whether national competences and systems are actually being taken into account. Does the Minister agree with me that, by its very nature, this treaty should also be regarded as a mixed agreement on legal grounds? If there is no unanimity, is the Minister prepared to say: sorry, then I would like a ruling from the Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u210	The fact is that that question is already before the Court. This raises the question of the status of the EU-S Singapore agreement. It is generally assumed, politically but also legally, that the ruling on that agreement is a guiding principle for what CETA should be. That statement hasn't come up yet. It's not due for another six months. Of course there is a legal component, but so many lawyers, so many sentences; I do not know if Mr Grashoff agrees with me. This is a political treaty with which we want to give political direction to the way in which the Netherlands should position itself in the world. I say this to Mr Bitch. I hope I am not blaming anyone, because I want to study the legal advice very carefully and take it extremely seriously. But if the political belief is that this is also about the competence of the Member States, it cannot be that it would be legally overruled. I can't imagine. There were some questions about TTIP and the mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u211	I see that Mr Merkies still has an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u212	Yeah, I had another question about the mixed deal. Let us get on with this. The question arises as to what such a mixed agreement would look like. Then what is going to happen to the national parliaments and what is not? Because then you still run the risk that the crucial things will not get to the parliaments. Will the Minister make an effort to ensure that the power for the crucial things take ICS, which is highly critical, comes to the parliaments precisely so that they can express their opinion on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u213	As I understand it, the Commission is coming up with a proposal which we will then be discussing. Fortunately, we are free to have views on this. I will pay attention to this in the future. Investment protection and investment treaties are covered by EU competence, as all bilateral investment treaties must be transferred to the EU. It is therefore reasonable to expect that ICS is also EU competence. Perhaps the views of Mr Merkies and myself or the cabinet differ somewhat. In this sense, I have no problem with it, because we have had an enormous amount of input into that ICS and I think it is a good mechanism. Mr Merkies may think otherwise. But investment in itself is an EU competence. This is enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u214	We don't think so. A lot of people think differently about that. Apart from what we both think, you would want people to have something more to say about it. It would be very cruel if we had finally managed to ensure that it is not EU only, but that the very things that everyone has so much difficulty with remain with the EU. It's hard to sell, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u215	I fully agree with Mr Merkies. I understand that very well. We have had a lot of debate on this in the Chamber. With the support of civil society organisations, we have managed a lot, because the Chamber has also sent me messages. I will pay particular attention to this in the presentation of the Commission's proposal, if I may pledge to do so. This will undoubtedly come back to the next debate, but then we will also know what the Commission is going to propose, so that we have a little more guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u216	My question is about agriculture and not about its content, because that is what the Minister will come up with. Does the Minister expect it to be EU only as far as agriculture is concerned? I hope not, given the importance of the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u217	I'll come back to that. I don't think it's EU only, but I'm not entirely sure. I am also holding back a little bit of this because it is very much a matter of how the Commission is going to present it. This is in fact the same as what Mr Merkies said. It would not be good if we could not discuss these issues again. So let's hold that together. Then the next time we talk, we can see how that goes. Then we still have a debate or we are in total agreement. Juncker said he wanted to be a member of the European Council of the Member States to support the negotiations for TTIP. That's the question. The question is not whether this is a good mandate or whether the mandate needs to be changed. The question is whether, given the mandate that exists, the Member States support the ongoing negotiations with the Americans. As President of the EU, we have no specific input at that European Council, but the position of the Netherlands is also very clear. That is that we are in favour of a well-balanced complete agreement that remains within the red line that we have also discussed here and which ICS is part of. And that's what we'll say there. Then I would like to move on to the content, starting with the precautionary principle. The precautionary principle in environmental legislation remains fully applicable in CETA. It is not specifically named in CETA but it is protected in CETA, including in Article 24.8 in the environmental chapter on pages 194 and 195. In addition, this principle is also a guiding principle in many other EU agreements and guidelines, including the new overarching trade strategy Trade for all, the EU Act, Article 191 (2), the UN Climate Treaty and the WTO Treaties. So that goes without saying. Furthermore, it has been asked whether CETA complies with the principles of the ESC and what we do with the criticism expressed by the FNV. We received the advice of the ESC on 20 April. That's a really big book. I would also like to say to the people in the public gallery that there is a very handy four-page leaflet on which the seven points are mentioned, which the ESC says TTIP should comply with. I see now that the members themselves already have that leaflet. Very good! The official press release of this ESC opinion is still coming up, but I can say that the cabinet is very much in favour of almost everything in that ESC opinion. Transparency, policy space and public services all fit in with government policy. The ESC also makes a number of recommendations on ICS, which Mr Vos, among others, reiterated. Should we have that, and if you have that, shouldn't there be wider access? How does it relate to national legal systems? I would very much like to say to Mr Vos that I shall perhaps come back to this in a moment that the cabinet wants to investigate. I will say a little more about the way in which we intend to deal with this and the time in which we intend to deal with it. The opinion was written in response to the TTIP negotiations, but for me, the principles also apply to the outcome achieved with the CETA negotiations. The SER has literally given me a measuring bar, a kind of tree trunk, with those seven points. We're just gonna put CETA through there. That seems to me a nice way for the Chamber to appreciate this too, because then we know from each other what the starting points are. The FNV, which also contributed to the ESC opinion, is concerned because there would be insufficient protection for public authorities in CETA to keep public services effectively public. Among other things, FNV mentions the negative list principle and the ratchet principle. Luckily, that's not true. There is no list of public services in CETA that should or should not be opened to foreign providers. There is no negative list and no positive list. Governments, including CETA, retain the right to grant a public service to only one provider. That could be a public monopoly or a private company with exclusive rights. Governments also retain the right to exclude foreign providers from the market or, in the case of public services, to favour domestic providers to foreign providers. Normally none of that is allowed, but in public services it is. I think you should. Because public services are not on a positive or negative list, they are also not covered by the above-mentioned principle. This principle means that we cannot go back on previous liberalisations. If you have liberalised and if you do not think that is such a good idea, then that principle should not be allowed. However, within CETA, each country retains full policy freedom in the field of public services and may decide for itself which service is to be classified as a public service. So then all these appointments apply. For anyone who wants to check that, and I imagine you want to do that, I say this is on page 1294. It is the first reservation of Annex 2. This is not insignificant, I would like to say, so it is good that the Chamber has asked me about it. Do we even know what CETA is going to bring us? I can give you some anecdotal evidence. For flowers, the import rate goes from 12.5% to 0% and for pushers from 25% to 0%, or vice versa. There are, of course, a number of great advantages to tarifair. Before we started negotiating CETA, an extensive sustainability impact assessment was carried out in 2009. That is the practice: we do so for all major trade agreements. It makes the different consequences clear. Re-examining such an analysis will not lead to substantial new insights. There is such an analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u218	If I am not mistaken, this sustainability impact assessment is valid throughout the European Union. He is not specifically focused on the impact on the sectors of business in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u219	I believe that I must contradict Mr De Roon here, because there has been a sector-by-sector review. It's not a general overview. I would like to look up the analysis for Mr De Roon and I will send it to him. I am so committed to this because of the point Mr De Roon and others have raised: free trade must be good for everyone and help to share fairly the prosperity he generates. At the same time, we must not ignore the fact that certain sectors have less or no benefits or even a small disadvantage, while other sectors have a lot of advantages. That's the way it is. It is important that we have taken maximum care of the interests of the Netherlands. We want the sectors that are important to the Netherlands to be able to make the most of them. As I have already said in a number of previous debates, we believe that we should come up with accompanying policies for those sectors which would suffer disadvantages. That's why these investigations are so important. I think this is part of the overall appreciation that the Chamber deserves once again when we talk about CETA later. How does the Cabinet see this? What do we think we're gonna do? Who do we need for that? The employers, the employees? That seems to me to be an important subject. I'm gonna go back to CETA and get to the TTIP leaks. That seems to me to be the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u220	But first, I would like to note your commitment to Mr De Roon and the Chamber that that impact assessment will come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u221	I think that the Chamber has already had it once, but that was in 2009, seven years ago. I think it would be a good idea to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u222	One of the principles which the Minister has mentioned and which she repeats over and over again is that our standards are not under discussion. However, the fear is not so much that this treaty will suddenly bring down standards within the European Union or the Netherlands. Above all, we fear that there will simply be economic pressure to adjust those standards downwards or not to adjust them up when we want to. Indeed, the economic impact would be significant, because in this case products from Canada and TTIP from the United States are being marketed which are produced against other standards and therefore simply cheaper. We do not want these standards, which may be related, for example, to animal welfare or to the environment, but the products come on the market here. We can keep our standard up for a while, but in the end the beating here will become so big that we still believe in it. What is the Minister's view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u223	For example, CETA states that both the EU and Canada undertake not to reduce labour rights in order to obtain trade benefits. Corn on Mr Grashoff's mill, I would think! It also states that the right of governments to regulate in all areas, including climate, is established. CETA also includes an explicit provision anchoring the right of States to legislate in the public interest. This means that there is a policy space for both parties to include specific restrictions on public services for different sectors. In the environmental chapter, states explicitly confirm that they also want to implement the climate and environmental measures to which they have committed themselves. In the field of pesticides, we have and keep the policy space to decide for ourselves which pesticides we allow in the EU. We draw up our own rules for this. In the example of nucleotides..................................................................................................... We have concerns about that. The EU applies the precautionary principle. The scientific data and precautionary measures are therefore basic principles for regulation in this area. The Court has already said that products imported by the EU must comply with EU standards. During the RBZ on 13 May last. We have found that there are already good agreements within CETA on the quality achieved in the protection of national standards and standards and that of the EU. I went from general to specific pesticides and back to general. Because of these provisions, the Netherlands believes that it is a good treaty that remains within our red lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u224	I do feel that the Minister is ignoring the essence of my question. That's very difficult. It is also very difficult to find the good examples to illustrate that, but I'm going to try anyway. Let me mention the neonicotinoids. If we do not want that stuff to be used here in greenhouse horticulture, then production costs in the Netherlands will rise. Then we import stuff from Canada, where that stuff can be used without any problem and the production costs are lower. This is an important competitive disadvantage, and sooner or later we will change the standards, because we cannot keep it up like this. This is the essence of the economic impact that is expected. Eventually it will be a race to the bottom, when it comes to animal welfare and the environment. It is precisely these fragile effects, not those of the market, but those of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u225	It is a good thing that Mr Grashoff is repeating animal welfare. Quotas shall be used in CETA. This is also what we want for TTIP; this is also part of the recommendations of the ESC. If you notice that there is a big difference between animal welfare standards between the EU and Canada in this case, you can use quotas. Then you say: the difference is too big for us, that is not fair to our farmers, so we set a quota, a maximum number of kilos or pieces that we are allowed to import. That quota will be low. A quota is quite different from free trade; it is a restriction. Meanwhile, we negotiate with each other and ensure that the standards are aligned. So at the points where the standards are not the same or where we are wondering whether they are right, there is always the possibility of using quotas to ensure that there is time to adjust the standards upwards, so that there are no disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u226	I think we have reached a very crucial point. Let's keep it simple and go to the pigs. We have regulations here in the Netherlands and also in the European Union to ensure that these animals live well, but the price goes up. Now the Minister says: if the requirements in Canada are lower, a quota is possible. Those requirements are indeed lower and that quota can be applied. At present, prices in pig farming and in other sectors have been very low for a long time. There will be additional supply on the market, the price will go down even further and the sector will go down even further. Why don't we say that if you import, you have to meet EU requirements, which means that you meet the same environmental and animal welfare requirements as here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u227	The quotas are used as a kind of transitional arrangement. Suppose we did get the maximum for sector X, but a compromise was reached for sector Y. That compromise could be such a transitional arrangement. I do not want to run away from the fact that this agreement does not work out as well for some sectors. The question is, therefore, what is the cabinet going to propose other than these transitional arrangements for mitigating measures? The Cabinet would like to answer that question, and if we are further on in the CETA procedure, we will do the same. So there are two routes that we want to take to deal with this problem, if it arises. The first is the quotas from the transitional arrangements and the second is the mitigating measures, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u228	If you look wide in agriculture, you can see the problems coming towards you in the field. The prices are already low. You can see it in pig farming and dairy farming. You can see it in all these sectors. If you didn't do it by the rules, you'd say there should be extra funding. I don't see that happening and I'm not waiting for it. Those subsidies go down rather than up. Then all you can do is make sure those demands are the same. If you conclude such a treaty, such a very important treaty that will apply in the coming years, why not just demand: if it is a single market, should the same conditions also apply to Canadian pigmeat, dairy products and arable crops? Then you've got a fair market where you're not competing on unequal terms, but just on quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u229	Of course, that's the stakes. It's clear. You're negotiating a treaty like this. We are on point A and Canada is on point A1 and sometimes it is the other way around. If you make agreements with each other, you also want to give each other the opportunity to grow towards those agreements or their implementation. That's what the transitional arrangements are for. That is how CETA works, I say to Mr Dijkgraaf. If we were to restrict our imports to products produced with exactly the same production standards, which the WTO may not allow, almost all of our imports from developing countries would have to be stopped. We don't want to. So there is always a search for a way to make it a race to the top. There's no misunderstanding about that. Where necessary, we shall agree transitional measures. If that offers no or insufficient solace, we are looking at mitigating measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u230	I have a question about those mitigating or accompanying measures for individuals and sectors that are about to suffer the consequences of CETA. Can the Minister promise that the Chamber will receive the package with which the cabinet will come and that it can be discussed in the Chamber before the point of no return for the creation and realization of CETA is reached? Can we talk about this before we get there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u231	The question is, when is the time? There are some moments when we will speak. Let me start by saying that CETA is a good treaty for the Netherlands, for most sectors. Otherwise, we wouldn't have closed it. We have to note that it does not work out or does not work out well for some sectors. I am happy to include the mitigating measures in the appreciation of the Cabinet Treaty in the explanatory memorandum to the law. How specific that can be, I need to take a look. I think it is very fair that the Chamber should ask the cabinet what it thinks it can do about it if there are groups that do not benefit from it. Then we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u232	That is very important. On 28 April my group tabled another motion, which was adopted by the House of Representatives. It was about TTIP, about that level playing field and EU standards and standards. The Minister now states that it is as it is and that there will be a transitional arrangement. Then it is very important to know exactly what that means. We should be able to learn from that for TTIP, because that way we do not want it with TTIP. Exclusion must also be an option there. The negotiations are still going on. I would now like to hear from the Minister how she is going to carry out our adopted motion, the Agnes Mulder/Geurts motion. It's about this point at TTIP. Essentially, the same thing is happening with CETA now, and that is, of course, worthless for our agricultural entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u233	If you get hit, of course, it's no use talking. Then it is no good that it is a good treaty for the rest of the Netherlands. I come from a farming family myself. We had a mixed business, and we've been hit by every plague ever. I understand that very well. In these negotiations, however, it is of course important to draw the maximum out. Sometimes you do come up with transitional arrangements. For example, agreement is made on a seven-year period during which the quota goes to zero. There are all kinds of possibilities that are discussed in the negotiations and eventually set out. That is the way we did this in CETA and the way we want to defend Dutch interests in the negotiations on TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u234	Can the Minister still tell us exactly what she's going to do with that motion that was passed? She can also let us know in a letter, because I really do not expect her to give a comprehensive reply today. However, I would like to hear this from her for the next debate we will have on this subject on 14 September. Then I can consider how I will proceed with this. We want it to be a learning treaty, including with regard to ICS. However, we must prevent all kinds of sectors from going down here, even in the run-up to a possible TTIP agreement. If that happens, the support for TTIP will of course disappear completely anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u235	Of course, I'd like to say so. More generally, in that annotated agenda for the RBZ, I will indicate a few of the issues that are on the agenda a little bit more than is customary in such an agenda. That way we can have an informed debate about it. I think that's important. However, I would say again, also to Mrs Mulder, that if CETA were not a good treaty for the Netherlands, I would be in a very different position here. However, this treaty is really good for the Netherlands. At the same time, we also want to take into account the sectors for which the Treaty is not good or less good. We will also indicate how we do that. I would certainly like to come back to that. Mr Verhoeven asked how CETA helps SMEs. There are two major benefits for SMEs associated with CETA. First of all, tariffs are dropping. I call the flowers and the pushers, but that's what I call a whole series of things. Secondly, there is harmonisation and mutual recognition of standards, which means that there is no need for double product testing. A multinational finds such a double product test annoying, but it really doesn't go under. However, such a double product test is a major obstacle for an SME. We have seen examples of this. Mr Teeven once mentioned the VanMoof bicycles. This is precisely where the benefits lie for SMEs. Does CETA force the EU to import tar sand oil? That's an important question. I think we have talked about this before, but I would be happy to tell you again. Look, here's the thing. As long as EU regulations are complied with, tar sand oil can be legally imported into the EU. This applies regardless of CETA, TTIP or any other treaty. Tar sand oil complies with current EU regulations and can therefore now, as we speak, come to the EU and the Netherlands. CETA and/or TTIP shall not affect any import or prohibition of the shipment of tar sand oil to the European Union. I can easily imagine that, in the margins of this debate, a total ban on the import of tar sand oil is being advocated. Such a ban is not legally possible. The WTO rules should ensure that equal products are treated equally regardless of how a product has been produced. It follows that if you wanted to stop tar sand oil, you would have to stop all the oil. But this has been discussed with my former colleague, Secretary of State Mansveld. The Netherlands considers it important to be in and out of this conversation with Canada. We propose to go and continue to discuss the subject with Canada under the CETA sustainability chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u236	There's one big difference. Now you can import it, but if you want, you can basically regulate it through your charging system. We cannot do that anymore, because the essence of the free trade agreement is precisely that these levies will be abolished. So I think it does change. This means that there may be an increase in imports of products that we simply think are bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u237	I think that is not true in this case, but I would like to come back to it, because it is good to clarify that. It is not the case that with one large swipe all tariffs have been abolished. That's not how negotiations were conducted. Of course, product groups have been looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u238	The essence of a free trade agreement is that you throw out those tariffs, otherwise it's not about anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u239	As I said: the flowers go from 25 to 0, the pushers go from 12.5 to 0, for product X we have quotas and transition periods... So it's not one generic, big swipe, but again, I'd like to point out later what's going on. We can have a view on tar sand oil, but it complies with EU rules and therefore has access now. CETA or TTIP will not change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u240	Will you come back to that in the second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u241	That's my endeavor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u242	...or in the letter that comes before September?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u243	It's possible. That is perhaps good because we address some of the other major issues. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u244	That's what you're charging for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u245	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u246	Fine. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u247	Is the green goods agreement or the Environmental Goods Agreement feasible? I would say yes to Mr Verhoeven. The boxes are there. With some political will, we expect a breakthrough in the autumn. The US, China and the EU are the ambitious triggers in this. China still needs to step up its efforts, but we expect that in the autumn the Environmental Goods Agreement, as Mr Verhoeven so desired, can be achieved. That's very good news. Then I come to the final point about content. Then I'm going to ICS. Mr Merkies said that the TTIP leaks confirmed the concerns. If the Minister does not agree with that, where does it state that the standards remain protected and that the precautionary principle continues to exist, he asked. First the formal part: I cannot confirm the correctness of the TTIP leaks. I can't formally say: it's true; this is them! But, of course, I've looked into it. As far as I am concerned, these leaks show precisely that the EU is negotiating hard with the Americans to ensure that the TTIP Treaty remains within our red lines. That is why these negotiations are not easy, but you have all been given the opportunity to do so. That is evident from the TTIP leaks, because they contain the different positions and you can see that we are not getting closer. Nor is the precautionary principle in question. In the context of TTIP, I say it again quite comprehensively. The principle is part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of agreements within the WTO. For example, the chapter on sanitary and phytosanitary measures in the EU text proposal for TTIP states that "Facilitate trade between the Parties to the greatest possible while preserving each Party's right to protect human, animal or plant life and health in its territory and respecting each Party's regulatory systems, risk assessment, risk management and policy development processes'. This is reflected in a number of points in the EU text proposals. So both within CETA and within TTIP, that precautionary principle is at issue. That's right, because that's the way we want it. Then there are a few questions about ICS. We have often discussed it in Parliamentary questions and letters. So I'm not going through everything again, but I'm going to limit myself to the pressing points. One of the pressing points concerns the climate "carve out." I believe that is what Mr Bruins asked for. The motion adopted calls on the government to work for a carve-out clause on investment arbitrage in trade and investment agreements, so that sustainable climate agreements and measures resulting from the Paris climate agreement are protected from damages claims through arbitration tribunals. This is government policy, because in all the new trade treaties, the cabinet is committed to protecting all public policies, not just climate and environment. We are doing so in the way I indicated at the beginning of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u248	If I recall correctly, the Minister has indicated that the government is protecting itself by retaining a right to regulate. This means that, as a country, we still have the right to decide what rules we lay down, but that does not mean that we are being protected from the claims that companies can then make, because we are taking these policies. So, yeah, we're free to make rules, but the claims will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u249	This, of course, is a very important point, and I have just explained it in a letter to the House. I refer to that letter, but I would like to explain it again because it is very important. There are different ideas about ICS, but it's a big improvement. ICS is not there to give foreign investors an advantage over domestic investors, but to protect them from discrimination against domestic investors. It happens quite often, even in countries in the European Union, that the foreign investor is being swindled because there is a domestic company. This is done, for example, by improper expropriation. A government can always expropriate; so can the Netherlands. All of our laws and regulations state how to do that. If we do so according to these agreements, we can make as many claims as we want, and there are limits to that because we have said that we do not want all these frivolous claims, but then they are simply not granted. I therefore understand Mr Bruins' question, but the fact is that these claims are not dealt with by the way in which ICS has been set up and by the way in which the Netherlands and some other countries implement their own laws and rules neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u250	It's a good thing that companies can get somewhere when rules just change. It is also a good thing that compensation can be paid. We need to treat companies fairly. However, the Dik-Faber/Klaver motion states that if the Netherlands takes action under the signed climate treaty, no claims can be made because we are bound by the climate treaty. That is the carve-out clause set out in the motion adopted. However, from the government's replies, I do not think that this is being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u251	That carve-out clause is not necessary because all public services are treated and protected as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. It concerns climate and environment, but also other public services. So that's already a certainty. I should like to clarify this by referring, in anonymized form, to the example Mr Teeven mentioned. What if a country doesn't want nuclear power anymore? A number of investors, domestic and foreign companies, have made substantial investments. If the State subsequently claims to cease doing so, that State shall follow its own rules to compensate those domestic and foreign investors whether or not they are dependent on the rules.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's okay; there's room for that. Objections may be made to the following. If twenty nuclear power plants have to be shut down over a period of ten years and the government decides, without motivating it properly, to shut down the power stations owned by a foreign company first, then the foreign company can say that it is disadvantaged in relation to the domestic investor. That claim, if the company were to file it, is not about the government not being allowed to make that decision. Because that would really be crazy. The claim is that domestic and foreign investors should be treated equally in the implementation of that decision. I'm not going to repeat it, but in ICS there are no frivolous claims, there is no U-turn and there is no fork in the road. We've all taken care of that. I hope I have reassured Mr Bruins once again. On this point, too, I have no problem with again pointing out the ICS principles in the run-up to the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u252	I'd love to. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u253	Mr President, I would just like to say that I am not quite reassured yet, but I await the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u254	I have a question on a point that has just been raised in the debate. I have read somewhere in the documents that an opinion has been requested from the European Court, either by the Commission or by the Legal Service or by the European Council. It is a so-called pre-legal opinion on whether the ICS now being proposed in CETA, but perhaps also in TTIP, is acceptable in itself on all points, mainly on the point that Mr Grashoff made in the debate, namely that it should not be parallel to a national system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u255	This has occurred before in the Chamber. Of course, everyone wants trade agreements and all their elements to be in line with EU law. That seems to me to be self-evident. In this context, the European Commission and its legal service have carefully examined whether ICS, as stated in CETA and the Vietnam Convention, is compatible with EU law. The Commission has convincingly argued that this is the case. This has led the cabinet to decide that there is no need at present to seek advice from the EU Court on this matter. The Commission and its legal service have looked into this and found that it is secured. For the time being, the cabinet finds that very convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u256	I have another question about the example that was just mentioned in the debate with Mr Bruins. If an international party feels disadvantaged, I can imagine that it will turn to the courts. That is why we have a legal system, which also excludes such a system. I think the Dutch judge is perfectly capable of making a harsh judgment on this. The opposite may also be the case: a Dutch company may feel disadvantaged in relation to an international company. However, that Dutch company does not have access to ICS. At this point the shoe is really starting to wring, because this may lead to different case law being built.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u257	ICS includes a number of safeguards that were not in ISDS. In ISDS the arbitrators were not appointed transparently and could have dual interests. We got all that out. In ICS, we said that you can't go shopping legally, in the sense that you go first to national law and then, if you don't get your way, to ICS. You have to make a choice. This whole interplay in ICS makes it possible for everyone to have equal treatment. We are also going to see if there can be access for other parties. So I do not see Mr Grashoff's objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u258	It simply means that if company A stays established in the Netherlands and goes to court, ultimately, in the highest instance, reaches the Court of Justice of the Council of State, while another international company is ultimately called law through the ICS arbritage. This means that the unity of justice for these parties no longer exists, for these are two independent judicial bodies which come to their own judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u259	There are a lot of international courts that have jurisdiction. We have here in The Hague the Permanent Court of Arbitration. I insist that we have dealt with these concerns with the new ICS. Perhaps I should ask another question: what interest would it serve to favour one over the other? Why would I want to put Dutch companies at a disadvantage compared to companies from....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We have no reason to do so. Mr Grashoff asked another question about ICS: if public debt is restructured, can there be a claim under ICS? We've been thinking about that, too. In an annex on indirect expropriation, including on page 332 in CETA, it is explicitly stated that measures taken by a government to restructure public debt cannot be seen as expropriation or indirect expropriation. Fortunately, therefore, that possible objection is overcome. Mr Grashoff also asked a question about the Energy Charter Treaty. As I said during the budget debate, I believe that the new form of investment protection should ultimately apply to all investment agreements, including that Energy Charter. We're committed to that, too. It is a multilateral treaty. So we cannot unilaterally say that we want to do so. All the countries that are party to this must agree on this. So we're gonna talk to all these parties. Am I willing to take over ICS in other treaties? Yes, I think that should be the standard for bilateral investment treaties of the Netherlands, but certainly also for bilateral agreements between the EU and other countries, such as the US, China and Japan. We also want to do this with Mexico, Indonesia and the Philippines. This is already in the treaty with Vietnam. It just needs to be the standard. Do unions and NGOs have access to ICS? That was a question from Mr Vos. In the investment chapter, this is still in TTIP, but we need to see how we can work out that stakeholders have access through the proposed and already existing amicus curiae letters and third party interventions. Then you must have an interest. You can submit comments in writing to help the court reach judgment. At a third party intervention, a third party can join the process if it has a direct and demonstrable interest. However, I have already promised Mr Vos that I would like to look into this matter in greater detail. I thought I answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u260	In all honesty, I thought so, too, because I wrote everything down. But I'm still looking at the room to see if I've forgotten anything. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Vos of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u261	I have another question on the last point. With all due respect, the Minister uses a lot of jargon. To make things easy, let me give you an example. There's a Canadian company with a chain of suppliers. Somewhere in China something is done with children's hands. Then there is a Dutch NGO that says: listen, you can't, because that's what we agreed. Can this NGO then go to an arbitration court to bring a case against the Canadian company?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u262	This is exactly what I want to investigate. Indeed, I used all legal terms: "amicus curiae letters" on the one hand, "third party intervention" on the other. Those are things that run, in which a party can interfere. I would like to examine, partly at the request of Mr Vos, whether other parties can also start something and what it should look like. I'd be happy to admit that's what I'm gonna do. Frankly, I can't see how complicated that is right now, but I'll try to get a look at how long I need to do that as soon as possible. I don't know about that right now, but I'd love to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u263	I thank the Minister for this commitment. Do I understand correctly that it is not just about labour, but also about the environment? You can compete very well by producing dirtier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u264	I'm gonna figure it out for all the subjects. I think it's good to do that. Even then, I cannot see whether it is feasible for one thing or not. In any case, I would like to take the broadest possible approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u265	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u266	We would do it in two, so I give Mrs Mulder the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u267	I thought, "I haven't said anything yet, I can say it now."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u268	Still, we'll do it in half. I call Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u269	I would like to know from the Minister whether she will do everything in her power to prevent the whole treaty from coming into force before the Court has ruled on the Singapore agreement. Can she promise us that? I imagine she says she wants to indicate in the letter whether or not she can do it. Of course, the European Commission has yet to come forward with a proposal at the beginning of July, and it may or may not become relevant. In that case, however, I would like to have the assurance that she will return to it in the letter before 14 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u270	I would, of course, like to do so on the basis of the proposal, but I would like to say to Mrs Mulder that the process at the Court is a legal one. I have enormous respect for matters such as the rule of law and all those things. However, there is also a political reality which I hear here in the Chamber and which I hear when I talk to NGOs and trade unions. I find it, frankly, a bit difficult. Let's just go through with it. Suppose the Court says it's EU only. And then I have to say: I promised Mrs Mulder on 7 June that I will always do what the Court says. Then Mrs. Mulder and I regret that. That's the context I'm sketching.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u271	I do not think that the Minister and I disagree that it should be a mixed treaty. I am concerned that, when the Court comes to the conclusion that it must be a mixed treaty, I do not have to repair everything afterwards. That's actually what I'm talking about. If you are already putting things into effect, when it is not quite clear what the EU is and what the country is, then you may be faced with problems like those we now have with Ukraine. I want to avoid that at all costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u272	I propose, also in view of the time and the technical aspects thereof, that I do so in the appreciation of the Commission's proposal. Then I might as well study it and we might also know a little bit more about how much longer the Court thinks it will take to reach a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u273	Mr. Fox is going to try anyway. Well, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u274	The Minister spoke with Mr Grashoff about the levy and tar sand oil. I have one more question. I know that there are opportunities in the WTO to make 'environmental causes', i.e. for environmental reasons, an exception. I think it's Article XX. The US Gasoline case is often cited as an example. However, it is still unclear to me how this relates to tar sand. When can we make an exception and when can we not? Will the Minister take that with him in the letter? Does it want to explain the difference between GATT and CETA? Whether it's a ship with heavy Arctic oil that we can't stop or tar sand oil, there's always something and it's always not legal. It is surprisingly common for fellow Minister Kamp in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u275	I do not think it is up to me to indicate whether it is strange that Mr Kamp should come forward with this, but I am very happy to say so. It seems very important to me to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u276	Thank you. I look at the members to see if they need a second term. That's the case. Then we're gonna start with that soon. The first speaker to whom I give the floor is Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. He has just over a minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u277	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. I was told that she wasn't talking about this until September in the IAZ. So summer looks good for us. I'd like to make three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Chamber adopted the Grashoff/Jan Vos motion (2151-02, No. 1615) adopted a parliamentary reservation if the European Commission makes a proposal for the provisional application of CETA;]] [[considers that it is desirable that the CETA Convention should be a mixed agreement and that important parts of CETA should be submitted to the Dutch Parliament;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose the provisional application of the Investment Court System Chapter and to endeavour to consider this chapter as "non-EU-only', so that the Court may rule on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, precisely in the manner of production, issues such as sustainability, the environment, workers' rights and animal welfare are relevant;]] [[noting that standards on finished products are included in CETA, but not on how products are produced;]] [[noting that the Government regards CETA as a "living treaty";]] [[calls on the Government, in the ISD Trade Council, to raise the issue of the EU and Canada's commitment, within the CETA framework, to setting standards on how products are created,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-28]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u278	I'm getting to my final motion. The Chamber, heard the debate,... Mr President, I have just given the messenger the wrong motion. Can I have the first motion back? Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u279	It's already under the copier, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u280	Then I don't have to read it anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u281	Yeah, we're gonna do that for the Acts anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u282	I know. Sorry for the delay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Chamber adopted the Grashoff/Jan Vos motion (2151-02, No. 1615) adopted a parliamentary reservation if the European Commission makes a proposal for the provisional application of CETA;]] [[Whereas CETA contains comprehensive lists of sector-by-sector exemptions (reservations) that allow national Member States to protect sectors or public services;]] [[considers that it is desirable that the CETA Convention should be a mixed agreement and that important parts of CETA should be submitted to the Dutch Parliament;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to identify the lists of exceptions by sector as "non-EU-only" so that the Court can give a ruling on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u283	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. It is clear what our reservations about the treaty are. In any case, it is important that we should be able to talk about it in the Chamber and that we should be able to talk about everything and not start anything for the time being. That's why I'm filing the next three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is in favour of including CETA under the exclusive competence of the EU;]] [[whereas both the Dutch Government and the House of Representatives have expressed the wish to make CETA a mixed treaty;]] [[whereas the European Court of Justice has not yet ruled on the mixed nature of the EU-Singapore Convention;]] [[calls on the Government, under no circumstances, to agree to the provisional entry into force of CETA before the judgment of the European Court of Justice is known, and in the meantime to make immediate efforts for a mixed convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ICS in CETA is a controversial dispute mechanism;]] [[considers that the Lower House should be able to express its views on ICS;]] [[calls on the Government to work with the European Commission to ensure that national parliaments can express their views on ICS in CETA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Merkies, Jasper van Dijk, Thieme and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-31]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Merkies and Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u284	I have a question about the motion, otherwise I can't judge her. I heard Mr Merkies say in the recital that ICS is a controversial mechanism. However, the SP groups were one of the groups that supported the Vos/Bitches/Agnes Mulder motion a while ago. This sent the Minister out to get ICS in CETA. That's a little inconsistent with that recital in the motion. Doesn't Mr Merkies think it's advisable to take that out of the motion? On the one hand, he supports a motion to send the Minister to ICS, but on the other hand he is tabling a motion to say that it is controversial. I can't rhyme with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u285	I do not understand why Mr Teven is saying this. I think we agree that it is controversial, because we disagree. That is the whole idea: there is a great difference of opinion on this. Then it's up to the Chamber to discuss it here. It would be very strange for us to say that the European Commission should decide on this. I would think that Mr Teven does not want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u286	That's a nice try, but what does the SP think? Is ICS supposed to be there or not? Otherwise, I do not understand Mr Merkies' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u287	That's not the point of the motion. It doesn't say whether or not ICS should be there. I think I made my position very clear on ICS: we are against it. I'm coming to my final motion. It's about TTIP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a great deal of social resistance to TTIP and that the benefits do not outweigh the disadvantages of the Convention;]] [[calls on the Government not to reconfirm the Commission's mandate for TTIP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Merkies, Jasper van Dijk and Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u288	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her clear answers, at least on the procedure, which is now crystal clear. I note that the Grashoff/Jan Vos motion is fully implemented. I'm very happy about that. That also gives some reassurance about our holiday. That's kind of fun. You don't always go through that around here. We still have some serious concerns about the content. There has only been a part of the debate, because of course there will be much more. I'm still filing a few motions, perhaps as a shot in the bow here and there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the President of the European Commission is asking for a new mandate for negotiations with TTIP;]] [[noting that many policy makers within the European Union and the United States have expressed concerns about TTIP;]] [[whereas a far-reaching treaty such as TTIP should be widely supported;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the European Commission to take place only in the TTIP negotiations until after the full conclusion of CETA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government takes the view that CETA is a mixed treaty and TTIP is therefore likely to be;]] [[noting that there is uncertainty about the boundary between Union competence and Member State competence in trade agreements and that this has an impact on the decision-making process and provisional entry into force;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to refrain from provisional entry into force by means of mixed conventions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-34]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u289	Finally, a very brief motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Investment Court System (ICS) contained in the CETA text has significant implications within the Member States;]] [[noting that the ICS will remain operational for three years if the Convention is not ratified;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the Council not to apply the ICS provisionally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u290	Mr. Chairman. I'll read my motion first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas trade in green goods can contribute to the transition to a green economy and the prevention of climate change;]] [[Considering that the EU is currently negotiating a trade agreement for green products such as solar panels, windmills and water filters and that the EU aims to conclude trade agreements with a large number of countries such as the US, Japan, Tunisia, China and Mercosur;]] [[calls on the Government, including in ongoing negotiations and already concluded treaties, to strengthen trade in green, innovative products and technologies that can contribute to the transition to a green economy and the prevention of climate change;]] [[calls on the Government to seek to broaden the green goods initiative to include more WTO members and a wider list of green products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u291	Finally, I would like to thank the Minister. She has answered many complex questions, which have often been asked before. I tried to connect with a nuanced input today. I will evaluate later whether I have succeeded, but hopefully I have been clear about the fact that we have a positive basic position, but certainly also look critically at the concerns. We do, however, make a distinction between serious concerns about matters that are actually, factually and demonstrable and all kinds of hypothetical concerns and concerns that smart lawyers or other people have invented to raise concerns about this treaty. I am not in favour of this because the debate is too late about the negative. Then all people have is an eye for the blind. I hope that is not the way we are going to have this debate over the next few years. For my part, I will make every effort not to let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u292	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive, sharp and to the point response which was certainly not woolly. We have to admit that. That is a good thing, by the way, because the CETA Convention is not just a 13-in-a-dozen treaty. Canada is the world's eleventh economy, a giant on a global scale. It therefore deserves all the attention we can give to it. I thank the Minister for that. But that does not mean that I agree with everything the Minister has said. For example, the Minister said that this treaty is good for the Netherlands. That is no reason for the PVV to agree. We believe that, if we were to be able to negotiate this treaty ourselves, the Dutch interest would have become more acute in the negotiations than when the European Commission negotiates that treaty for European interests. The Minister has promised that, if there is a ratification law on this treaty, it will come up with an appreciation of the impact on the sectors of the Dutch economy and proposals for a way in which it should be taken into account. I note that I like this commitment in itself. But this obviously depends on whether this is indeed a mixed treaty or not, because if it is not, then we will not get a ratification law either. My question to the Minister is what we will do if it is not a mixed treaty. I believe that the Minister should at least do everything in his power to ensure that it becomes a mixed treaty and, where possible, should lie down in order to prevent it from becoming one. I also believe, on behalf of my group, that if it is a mixed treaty, there should be a ratification law. We will therefore do everything in our power to ensure that it becomes a referendable law, so that there will be a referendum, a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u293	I have also noted that the Minister has already made your points in September and not at the time of possible ratification. On the impact and so on, the Minister said that in September, for the general consultation on 14 September, she would send a letter to the Chamber. That's how I wrote it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u294	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answer to the questions and, above all, for her commitment to making this a treaty which properly guarantees the rights of Dutch citizens, which is very important for the future of our economy and social cohesion in our country. I've got two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that European labour rights and environmental standards should be protected as far as possible in a globalising economy;]] [[Considering that Trade Convention CETA will become a living Convention, allowing signatories to initiate adjustments during the term of the Convention;]] [[calls on the Government, during the duration of CETA, not to agree to any adjustments affecting the labour and environmental requirements already laid down in the Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that labour and environmental standards should be protected in trade agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards a European binding dispute resolution mechanism including sanctions, with direct access for social partners and NGOs to ensure compliance with sustainability chapters in trade agreements and core labour standards and environmental standards;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Teeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-38]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u295	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to examine the way in which ICS or any other dispute settlement mechanism is designed in such a way that trade unions, social partners and NGOs have access to it. I believe that this will work very well and will be able to improve systems between countries in terms of how products are produced and marketed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u296	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her clear answer. I would also like to thank her for her commitments. I have noted that we are going to hear from the Minister before the AO RBZ on 14 September how she is going to proceed with the Mulder/Geurts motion and that this is reflected in the letter. It has also promised to provide more information on its approach to the ICS mechanism, how it will work formally or informally, and what direction it will take in order to make adjustments in the future. We'll wait and see. If we still want to make motions before the AO, we can do so, but I would like to have the letter first. The CDA shares with the Cabinet that it should be a mixed treaty. That is why I have also co-signed my colleague's motion for a resolution from the Group of the Party of European Socialists. We attach particular importance to the transitional arrangements, because we do not want to see situations as we have seen them with Ukraine. We are waiting for what the European Commission is going to come up with, and so is the appreciation of its cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u297	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her adequate and thorough reply. She knew very well what she was talking about and that was quite noticeable today. I also welcome the clear statement made by the D66 Group this evening, although I do not see Mr Verhoeven now. For the first time in a long time, it has become really clear that D66 stands for free trade. That's refreshing in this room. Then you'll recognize your old liberal friends. It took a while, but after a year we got that sharp. So I would also like to thank Mr Verhoeven, whom I do not see now. I am sure he will hear it again through you, Mr President, when he returns to this Chamber. It is good that the government listens carefully to residents of the Netherlands who have concerns. The VVD group also likes to have a listening ear. You can't take all the objections seriously, but that doesn't help. You will sometimes have to convince those who are convinced, including lobbyists, of the counter-arguments. Sometimes people even get convinced. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the CETA Convention contributes to fairer world trade;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that CETA is approved as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Bitch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31985-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u298	The government should see this as an incentive move. After everything she has heard here this evening, the Minister is so concerned with all the guarantees for the Chamber that it is also good if the momentum remains a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u299	I'll take 13 motions. I will give the Minister until 11.45 p.m., one minute per motion, time to prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u300	Mr. Chairman. I will first answer the outstanding question about tar sand oil. It didn't bother me that we didn't have that on the retina. In the current situation, the tar sand oil tariff is zero. CETA doesn't change anything. It's still zero, so nothing's gonna change the situation. On the motion in part No. I think that 28 of Mr Bruins's opinions can be left to the Chamber. I see this as a motion that is actually superfluous. The Court will be able to decide on all parts of the agreement, whether it is an "EU only" part or a mixed part. Either way, it's on the table. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 29, also from Mr Bruins, I should like to advise against. Achieving effective and high standards without unnecessary barriers was the starting point under CETA. Under WTO rules, it is not possible to discriminate on the basis of how they have been created. The motion is therefore contrary to WTO rules. That's why I have to dissuade her. In the motion in part No. 30 the government is invited to make efforts to classify the lists as non-EU only, with the exception of sector-by-sector, so that the Court can rule on them. The same applies to this matter as to the motion in part No. 28: Judgment Chamber, for it is possible. We are going to talk about this. The motion in part No. 31 by Mr Merkies I must advise against. The current procedure for the agreement with Singapore concerns the division of competences between the EU and its Member States. As I said earlier, I do not rule out the possibility that this decision will take place only after the Court has given its ruling. I would like to separate the legal process from the political question for now. I would like to wait for the Commission to come forward with its proposal. I do not agree with the observation made in the motion on item No. 32 that ICS in CETA is a controversial dispute mechanism. The Chamber has asked me to bet on this. I did that with a lot of conviction and love, because I thought that was very important. I really can't agree with the wording here. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u301	The most important question, of course, is whether the Minister agrees with the operative part. Then I can still think about the consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u302	I would appreciate that very much, because, as I said to Mr Bruins, we are probably going to talk about this. Then I can also leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. That always sounds nicer than "unneeded." I do so with the agreement that Mr Merkies will then refrain from the qualification in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u303	So that's about the word "controversial," I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u304	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u305	Okay. I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u306	Very good. In the motion in part No. 33 the Government is invited not to reconfirm the Commission's mandate for TTIP. I'd advise against it. I have indicated the conditions under which the Netherlands could agree. The motion in part No. 34 is also about TTIP and asks us to finish CETA first and then continue with TTIP. I don't see the ratio of that motion, so I advise her not to. In the motion in part No. 35 the Government is invited to urge the European Commission to refrain from provisional entry into force in the case of mixed agreements. I would advise against that motion. CETA is, in our opinion, a good treaty. Provisional application offers our entrepreneurs the opportunity to quickly take advantage of the benefits of the Convention. We'd be failing ourselves otherwise, which I wouldn't want. I would like to ask Mr Grashoff if he has his motion on item No. Thirty-six want to stop, because we're still gonna talk about it. I can also say "judge Chamber," but say: hold the motion, because the conversation will get a sequel. In the motion in part No. 37 The government is also invited to seek a broadening of the green goods initiative to include more WTO members and a wider list of green products. I see the motion as a support for policy and as a great encouragement. In the motion in part No. 38 The Government is invited, during the duration of CETA, not to agree to any adjustments affecting the labour and environmental requirements already laid down in the Convention. I would also like to see this motion as support for policy and encouragement, because it must remain a race to the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u307	About the motions in part No. 37 and 38 you have said'support policy'. May I conclude from that that it is "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u308	Sure. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u309	I would like to point out that motions can be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u310	That's true with the new qualifications. So all support policy is, of course, take over. Now I'm making it very complicated. The motion in part No. 38 I want to take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u311	Unless someone has a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u312	I object to taking over the motion in part No. 37 of D66. I want to vote on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u313	Fine. In any case, we are going to vote on the motion on item No. 37, who's got "judge chamber." The Minister suggests that the motion in part No. Thirty-eight to be taken over. I'll take a look around and see if there's any objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u314	I would like to put that motion to the vote. I have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 36. The Minister advises you to hold it. Do I understand correctly that if it is not apprehended, then it is "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u315	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u316	The Minister is not about detention; that is what the Chamber is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u317	Exactly. I had that conclusion on my list. Mr Vos rightly points that out. I just wanted to make sure that if the motion is not changed, it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u318	It is a bit of the same dilemma as with Mr Bruins' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u319	I'm interrupting. Mr Grashoff, the request was for you to hold the motion. If you say you're gonna keep it, we don't have to think about what we're doing anymore. If you don't say that, the Minister's gonna think about her reaction. I'm taking it very pragmatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u320	I'm just so curious about the Minister's opinion. I just wanted to think about whether it would be wise to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u321	We're going to discuss everything on the table in conjunction and on parts. I therefore find it a little complicated to make a judgement on a number of points. It will fit in with the whole appreciation of what the Commission has come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u322	Then you must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u323	There is nothing else to do, unless Mr Grashoff is still trying to connect with the government and still wants to hold the motion. I want the motion in part no. 39 to support policy. Mr Vos asks the government to work for such a mechanism. I would like to read that I should first be allowed to investigate exactly how that could take shape. Maybe there are all kinds of huge legal objections and it seems like a good idea, but it doesn't turn out to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u324	Mr Vos might say he wants to arrest her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u325	That is exactly the interpretation I had in mind when drafting the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u326	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u327	So the minister can interpret her like that. I'm assuming her advice would be "Room of Justice."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u328	Sure. I interpret her as research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u329	Fine. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u330	The judgment on the motion in part No. I'll leave 40 to the room, too. I would like to say to Mr Teeven that, of course, he knows that it is good to do things soon, but that we are following all the procedures we have discussed here this evening. Carefulness, of course, comes first, because you can only say yes once. At least, in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u331	I note that no motion has been taken over. All motions will be put to the vote. I see Mrs Mulder has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u332	In my first term, I had asked the Minister about the provisional application and how that would be done in the Council, whether it would be done by a qualified majority or not. It may also be included in the letter, but I would like to have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u333	I like to put it in the letter. I'd like to do it exactly, with article numbers and everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u334	Fine. Are you done with your answer? I see that's the case. I am not going to repeat all the commitments as a non-commercial spokesman. I'm afraid I'll forget something or say something wrong. It is all noted and can be found in the stenographic report. I can only conclude that there will be a rather comprehensive letter for the general consultation on 14 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u335	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-36.u336	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
