ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-4.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. On 23 August 2011, Ria Vedder-Wubben, Senator for the Christian Democrat Appèl, died from 10 June 2003 to 7 June 2011. Hendrika Cornelia Maria Wubben was born on May 20, 1951 in The Hague as the descendant of a family of gardeners. After completing the HBS, she became an accountant at insurance company ENNIA. In the evening she studied for actuaries. After three years, Vedder switched to Equity & Law. She also worked for several years for a pension adviser. In the early 1990s, Ria Wubben became actuaries on his own. In 1998 she became a partner, and later managing partner, at Deloitte & Touche. This position combined Ms Vedder-Wubben with the membership of the Upper House from 2003. She had come into politics through the CDA-Women in The Hague. In an interview shortly after her appointment, she indicated that she hoped to be able to counter the high "student room content" of the Upper Chamber with her practical experience. She certainly did. In this house, her name would be inextricably linked to the pension file. When the cabinet in 2005 called for the abolition of the tax incentive of the VRS and the pre-pension, it indicated that it knew from experience that it would take more than a year to adjust pension schemes. However, Ria Vedder-Wubben not only took into account the position of pension administrators, but also, above all, the interests of pension members and beneficiaries. For example, in her maiden speech, she criticised the rigidity of the pension system and supported the intended introduction of a life cycle scheme, because these people gave more space to combine their work and private life in any form. Mrs Vedder-Wubben found that the scheme would be very unfavourable for the self-employed when considering an initiative proposal on banking savings. By holding firm, she was given a commitment from the cabinet to look for a way in which bank savings could be paid without limiting the pensionable salary. In the plans for a surcharge discount for 65-plussers with a younger partner in 2010, Ms Vedder-Wubben introduced a major policy change. When the debate revealed broad criticism of this proposal, Ria Vedder submitted an alternative plan to the Minister, which he gratefully accepted. It led to a commitment entitled "Adjustment Bill to Wishes Chamber." I think that is something that many MEPs would be jealous of. In addition to her competent contribution to the pension file, Mrs Vedder-Wubben has always actively engaged in chamber activities. Presidents of the First Chamber never called in vain on her when it came to revenue from domestic or foreign delegations. She was also chairman of the Committee on Petitions for eight years. Ria Vedder-Wubben was known in this house as a warm, accessible and sober person for whom family life with husband, children and grandchildren always came first. The last position she held was on the board of Pension Fund Zorg en Welzijn. Ms Vedder-Wubben was the first directly elected director of this pension fund in August 2014. In that capacity, too, she worked with great devotion for a decent retirement provision. It is deeply regrettable that she has not been able to enjoy it herself because of her unexpected illness and death. Today we commemorate her with respect for her person and her merits for our parliamentary democracy. May this be of support to her family and friends. I would ask you all to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-4.u2	I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes in anticipation of Mr Van Weyenberg, Mrs Keijzer and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. You may wonder why I am not suspending to greet the family, but the family has preferred not to be present at the memorial, because this is too heavy for them at the moment.
