ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the government's first term. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance and give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Not only the preparatory debates, but also the plenary debate, the tax plan is always about a huge amount of detail, but it is also about what politics really ought to be about every year. In this Chamber we are talking about the heart of political considerations, and that is what it should be about. Think of all the questions about justice. Think of all questions about sincere and legitimate concerns in the Chamber about tax differences between groups with an equal income or within groups with a different income. I want to start with the whole story about purchasing power and tax burden. Let me begin with the way in which we engage in this discussion every year. If you were interviewing a first-year student tax on the day of arrival, he is still confused with instrumentalism and politically still very green, I think he will say in the reception week at the university that two things are certain for him anyway. First of all, anyone who works more and therefore earns more must also have more; it is fair that you will have more if you do more. Secondly, if two people make the same amount of money, they also pay the same amount of tax; that is also fair. It is, of course, remarkable that we do not see this to that extent in the system as we evaluate it every year and discuss it here. Those are two discussions that I do not think we should confuse, because then things will go wrong. You have the discussion about marginal pressure, about the differences within a group with a different income. But you also have the discussion about differences between groups with the same income. Let me start with the marginal pressure. Mr Omtzigt asked a question about this. He did so on the basis of an example of a breadwinner with an income of €30,000. I believe that Mr Van Dijck introduced this example into the debate. Mrs Schouten also expressed her concern about this. How does this marginal pressure, which is high here and there, relate to the principle of carrying capacity? That is actually the starting point of Mr Omtzigt's speech. Is the marginal pressure we see in some groups now in line with the principle of carrying capacity? My argument is that this is also the direct consequence of the principle of carrying capacity. If we were to completely abandon the principle of carrying on and if we were to charge everyone the same amount of tax, the marginal pressure would be zero. Let us face it: in the desire to apply the principle of capacity, we collectively are guilty of marginal pressure. Then there is the question of how to divide it and where to drop it, but we have introduced the marginal pressure here; that is inherent in our policy objectives. In the example of Mr Van Dijck and Mr Omtzigt, we see the marginal pressure on households with an income between €21,000 and €32,000 including the surcharges at a very high percentage. This is specifically about the example of a earner with two children and a rental house. Is that contrary to the principle of carrying capacity? Well, the average pressure for this household isn't 90% of the population. That's the marginal pressure. That's only 17%, even if you're climbing to that income of $32,000. That's after losing the rent allowance. The tax burden is, of course, relatively low in absolute terms, but it does not remove it, and that is why there is a high marginal pressure. What's it got to do with? The average tax burden for that group is still low. The high marginal pressure has to do with the fact that a earner in that income path is therefore the only earner in the household to receive a supplement more often than on average. It therefore has relatively high income support at the bottom and, as a result, is logically experiencing a high marginal pressure. You can say they even go hand in hand. It is precisely the desire to achieve a low average pressure that has led to a high marginal pressure. I'll give you that, too. Several members have asked what you can do about it. The marginal pressure on the income path as a whole is valid for each group that you can lower or increase at the bottom. The cabinet didn't choose that. Then it's the choice where you drop that marginal pressure. Somewhere there's this pressure; we can't get rid of it. You can put the pressure at the beginning or at the end. It has been chosen to explicitly reduce it at the bottom when it comes to getting out of a benefit. The marginal pressure has significantly improved in the gap between assistance and minimum legal wage. This is also due to the fact that the social view was "because that was even more likely to improve your income if you go from a benefit to work." We had in the past the situation where not even the word "sanding" was used, as I do now, but the word "unrighteous." It was sometimes the case that people who went to work declined in income. That is the poverty trap in its purest form. This is the result of choices to make it attractive for as many people as possible to get to work. Logically, the marginal pressure decreases at the bottom and then it automatically increases at the top. That's a mathematical fact. Fortunately, Mr Van Dijck's example is based on that route, but 10% of thoseone-earners, but it continues to sand. No one can keep the story that this is good for those people or good for the country. Therefore, it is important that SZW's research is carried out seriously. The first tendency is always to fix this kind of thing, but it is precisely in the accumulation of benefits and income support tools. This does not allow you to focus on specific households or specific repairs. Then you have to do it at system level. I once got a lot of parties very willing to put in place a broader system review. I almost got enough parties, but not at all. It's clear we need to look at this again. SZW is really gonna take a serious look at that. That will not be ready for the SZW budget. Then there would be too light research. We have to do this seriously, because they are serious questions and some groups also have serious problems. These are my comments on the marginal pressure. Questions have also been asked about differences between groups. We have a very striking table that everyone knows about, and questions have been asked by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Omtzigt. They asked whether equal groups paid the same amount. They don't; that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u3	I believe that these are two different points. It was just about the research that SZW is going to do, partly on the basis of the Schalk motion in the Upper House, which was widely supported in that Chamber. I even hear parties that did not support the motion say that this is a problem. I hear the Secretary of State say "seriously" a few times, thank you for that. It really has to be done and it is complex. It is not possible to do it for the examination of the SZW budget. That's too bad, because that's actually a good time to share this with each other, but that's really fast. When could it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u4	When would that be possible? I'm a little stirred up in the pots of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u5	That's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u6	Let me look at the employees: is the first quarter feasible? I'm not asking the cook of SZW right now, I'm asking the cooks who are watching in the recipe book of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u7	Maybe something for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u8	I'll come back later. It's got to be serious. It's not about things. It is a more fundamental view of how you treat groups, even in the marginal pressure. The groups that have this marginal pressure are very small, but they exist, they exist. This is also about differences between groups. I'm gonna walk right through it. This is all the result of things that were in themselves sensible and that were once decided here, but you may question the effect of its accumulation. It's not for nothing that we have these kinds of bubbles on the table. Those bubbles speak for themselves. Some groups are tiny, but they exist, and we all have to be able to account for these differences. We should not make a small thing out of it with some light remarks about it and again. These differences, of course, attract the attention of everyone who is still in the mode in which he sympathizes with the freshman student who says that people who earn the same amount of money have to pay the same tax. If there's such an anomaly, you can ask questions about it. The causes are, of course, in all kinds of secondary objectives that play a role in this. The Cabinet and the Chamber have the firm desire to spare the elderly. We have an old-age discount for that and we know lower rates in discs. However, there is also a desire to support workers. After all, we see incentives for workers, including those with small children, working. That means more people are going to work. Overall, this will increase prosperity by increasing labour force participation, but also by promoting the economic independence of groups. This is therefore a secondary objective which the student had not yet taken into account in his reflections during his reception week. Finally, of course, we agreed once that we would undertake and support entrepreneurs. For this there are the self-employed deduction, the SME profit exemption and the start-up deduction. Mr Omtzigt is doing a little too easy when he says that this is model fetishism. Yes, some things are clearly motivated by the desire to promote participation in the labour market. It also looks at the model calculations of the CPB. That's the independent watchdog who watches over the numbers. Otherwise, we are all going to be opportunist about ourselves. It's a good thing we don't do that. The CPB is an example at European level. However, there are also all kinds of things that have nothing to do with these models. The old-age discount doesn't provide jobs. It wasn't created from that angle. The self-employed deduction does not come from a model either. So we are a little short-sighted when we say that all these differences stem from model fetishism. Yes, some support measures or measures aimed at certain groups have clearly thought about participation in employment, but others, including political-legitimate ones, have a role to play in other measures. This means that solving this is not so easy. Let us take for a moment two groups which pay relatively little tax on this same income. One of them is thezzp'er. He pays the least. However, the purpose of entrepreneurship and the promotion of entrepreneurship are very widely shared in this Chamber in itself. In fact, in another context, which is not directly related to tariffs, there is even a firm fight for entrepreneurial space to be able to undertake. That's what this Chamber and the government stand for. The second group, which pays the second least, are the elderly. I do not think that there are any proposals in this Chamber for the reduction of the old-age discount. That does not live here; it is widely shared here as a legitimate political goal. The trade-offs have thus become more complex than for the first-year fiscalist who entered his reception week. But they're all legitimate political goals. Mr Krol said he was concerned about the purchasing power development of older people. I think that this purchasing power package clearly shows that the cabinet has shared those concerns. Without intervention, the elderly would have stood at -1%, now they are at +0.7%. Almost two thirds of the amount of 1.1 billion goes to the elderly, of whom almost 80% will see the income position improved as a result of this package. Does that mean that the income gap is severe? Yes, compared to the image that existed, but compared to some other groups it is less. But it is a fact that, in the list just now, the group of older people among the various groups pays relatively little tax, at least less than some groups of workers. This can also be looked at, and all this can also be taken into account in the recitals. I believe that this year there is a very strong purchasing power repair package, which is aimed at the elderly for almost two thirds, i.e. more than half. So much for purchasing power, marginal pressure and groups. There are always subjects that you hadn't seen coming in advance, whatever makes them a surprise. I honestly admit that crop protection was one of them. But I see Mr Dijkgraaf standing by the interrupting microphone. I believe that his question will not be about plant protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u9	No, because I don't have any predictive powers for the Secretary of State's answers. I wasn't informed in advance either. Luckily, that's never happened either. My question is about the one-earners. They, of course, also have to do with this gap. I take it the Secretary of State finished that block?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u11	I asked the Secretary of State in my speech yesterday if he could elaborate again on the one-earners. I always get the answer that this is an individualistic system. But look at the sum: a earner pays €8,000 to €10,000 more tax. That's not an automatic outcome of an individualistic system, is it? Then you're also dealing with a stack of cabinet measures, aren't you? So that really is a choice of the cabinet itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u12	I think that's related to the way you look at it. The discussion on this subject can also become very lively in this Chamber without the intervention of the cabinet, which we saw last year, and I think it was also seen in the previous year. It is very much connected with that. Individualistically, because the progressivity is individual, a single-modal earner's house becomes a single-modal household, i.e. a single-modal household, compared to a double-modal household, i.e. twice-modal, because it is the same progression. The total tax burden of the single earner appears to be lower and not higher. So it's connected to your vision. That does not disqualify Mr Dijkgraaf's vision. There are all kinds of groups of people who do not look at this individually, but at each household, and who have a good reason for doing so. This may therefore be part of the discussion. I don't disqualify that. I am just saying that if this is viewed with individualistic glasses, there are other things compared to the equations made by Mr Dijkgraaf. The total tax burden, including the surcharges, is slightly lower with the single earner. That was part of the letter that was sent earlier this year or last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u13	That was a rather special letter, because the table was suddenly no longer based on equal parts. The main breadwinner in the two-earner family worked full-time, while the other part-time worked. I thought that was a rather special comparison, but as far as I'm concerned we're gonna give this a rest, because those are details. My main question is this. There's a motion Schalk passed by the First Chamber. We were just talking about a motion for a resolution, but that was number two, number one is still there. In that motion, the cabinet is asked to take measures to reduce that gap. I understand that the Secretary of State says: I am very sorry, but that is not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u14	This Tax Plan contains what's in it. Mr Dijkgraaf has gone through all that. At the same time, SZW has been asked to pay attention to these aspects and to come up with more than a blank. This is about marginal pressure for certain groups, but also about differences between groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u15	That's nice to hear. I didn't understand it that way, because the Secretary of State just spoke mainly about marginal pressure. I understand that the research of SZW also really addresses the differences between the different groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u16	Differences between groups and marginal pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u17	Please continue. Moreover, I am curious to see how your input has been allocated and how much time you think you need to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u18	This is a good point. I'll talk about crop protection...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr Dijkgraaf's favourite subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u20	...the time clamp, backpay payments, the BOR and tax avoidance. Then there's a category of "gender" left. In addition, a question has been asked by Mr Omtzigt about the Tax Administration. Furthermore, a number of amendments have already been tabled, which I could comment on in the first period if the President thinks that this is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u21	That seems to me to be a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u22	A lot of questions have been asked about monuments and education. The Minister is absent, but the questions were quite pertinent, especially as written answers show that the investigation showed an analysis and that this analysis was only carried out after the political decision had been taken. I hope there will be some clarification on that. I would also like to have a strong explanation of own-account pensions. The Secretary of State gave a very detailed answer to this in the written reply, for which I am grateful to him, but there are still some loose ends to be found. Finally, some attention should also be paid to cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u23	The cars are on the loose questions. I'll handle the OCW block after the separate questions. I will address the questions on own-account pensions after answering the questions on tax avoidance. I thought I had taken all the questions off in writing, but if we disagree, I would be happy to hear them and we will look into them. I'll start with the crop protection. Mr Omtzigt, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Van Weyenberg put forward a very logical idea. They argue that there is now a green variant of innovation that is supported by the innovation box, but that the green variant itself is currently excluded. They wonder whether it is not wise to include the green variant itself. That is not only a very logical thought, but also a very sympathetic one. The green variant is not in it now, because natural plant protection is not included in the list of OECD legal tickets. We are convinced that the Netherlands wants to comply with the OECD conditions in this area, and that is what this whole exercise has begun. We have also received the OECD approval mark for the innovation box as it now stands. That is why I must reject Mr Omtzigt, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Van Weyenberg's suggestion. However, I think the question is so logical that I think we should move forward with it. The one that deals with the list is the OECD Forum on Harmful Tax Practices. I would like to refer this point to that forum. Depending on his reaction, we can continue with that. An amendment on this subject will be discussed later. My proposal is not to adopt the amendment in this way, because then we are suddenly no longer OECD compliant, and that could be the case. Perhaps the amendment can include entry into force by Royal Decree; then we can allow it to enter into force as soon as the consent is received. It is so logical that I do not want to deal with this too carelessly, but the cabinet has a very clear desire to abide by the rules of the OECD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u24	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u26	I'm a little dominant at the beginning of the debate, but I promise I'll calm down soon. As a matter of fact, my points are mostly at the beginning. I'd be fine with that. We have experienced this once before in the waste tax. We checked with OECD lawyers. It all seems to be okay, but I imagine the Secretary of State would like to hear it directly from the OECD. We will amend the amendment in such a way that a Royal Decree can be adopted on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u27	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u28	The second the OECD gives the green light, the Secretary of State will take care of it. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u30	Can the Secretary of State say how long such a procedure is going to run at OECD? Does that take weeks or months?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u31	I have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u32	Can the Secretary of State undertake to set it in motion immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u33	Yeah, I'm gonna get that started right away. Mr Groot has expressed his concern about a camelnose, but I do not think we have a camel nose here. This is the whole camel, but it's very small. It's a very small camel. Mr Van Weyenberg even tried to make him budget neutral. We can't, so we have to do something with the cover, but this isn't the beginning of something bigger or anything. It is a sympathetic goal, which perhaps would have been in it already if we had all had the right to decide it ourselves. I come to the time clamp at old savings mortgages, which are no longer being closed. It's about the possibility of early buy-back. The CDA even proposes to remove all clamps. Taxation is not so much an objection to this, but there are other private parties that may be affected by an interim change, such as insurers and market players, which have based themselves on legislation. That's what they watched at the time. There was a bit of a tendency in the discussion to think: four years ago we started to talk about this and then the government did nothing. That's not true. Four years ago, it was looked at by DNB. That's when he found out he was at risk. It is now four years later and that situation must have changed. No products have been added and it is a shrinking population. So there is every reason to look at this again. The first assessment of DNB..... that is not yet official and final.... is that it might not be too bad, but we are not going to make it to do this immediately in 2017. I can imagine, then, that I have already reached the point of the amendment that this request should be tabled in a motion or at some point as an amendment to the 2018 Tax Plan, or that the government should be called upon to settle it. Well, that depends on the risk assessment. Let's get this over with. There's no unwillingness, but we have to do it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u34	I was just asking questions about that risk assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u35	Oh, yeah. I'm not done. The order that seemed logical to me is that I answered Mrs De Vries' question first and then Mr Van Weyenberg's questions. Mrs De Vries asked: what do consumers benefit from this? Consumers would be given greater flexibility to use the accumulated capital prematurely for the repayment of the home, without encountering a tax penalty. That means they can shorten their personal balance. They can then consider themselves instead of taxing them. Mr Van Weyenberg, if I understand correctly, highlights the other side of freedom of choice. He says: poohpuh poohpuh, if people do all that, how can we ensure in this room that people are not left with residual debts? I'd almost make it a one-two of liberals to one another. I'd say this isn't a matter for the Empire. If people want to realize this compulsion, knowing that they have to pay off a residual debt afterwards, it is up to them. The tax clamp has never been designed to ensure that banks have collateral. He has never intended to protect the owner of the house from unwise decisions, apart from the fact that it may be a very sensible decision to sit down with a residual debt, if you have repaid part of the debt and sacrificed the savings. I do not think we should even pretend here in this Chamber that we should save every Dutchman from a residual debt, regardless of whether that would be wise at all. I think people should think about that for themselves. Those property owners have once mortgaged and will also have to consider how to get rid of their debt. That'll get me to the end of this block. I can't wait to see Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u36	We're not gonna have a round of questions behind every sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u37	They're just small subjects. I can just go on, but if Mr Van Weyenberg burns of desire, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u38	If you're doing this with something like mortgages, given people's big financial interests, you should also rule out the risk that you're making chunks. The reason for my question was that this was the only possible lump I saw. However, I am reassured by the answer given by the Secretary of State. So my enthusiasm for Mr Omtzigt's idea has only grown further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u39	It is good that you share that with us, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u40	I fully agree with the Secretary of State that we are not in favour of determining all kinds of things for consumers through taxation. On the other hand, we do not do this through taxation for insurance companies. I wonder what the consequences would be for that angle. I do not think that is what taxation is meant for. If you go through that line, it would be logical that what is in the amendment should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u41	It's a little bit different. In any case, I hear Mrs De Vries' party say that it gives uncertainty when the playing field keeps changing and that at some point it must also be avoided. Here, insurers are going to offer a product in the knowledge that there is a certain clamp. They have been able to take this into account in their investment policy. They've been able to plan long-term decisions. That doesn't mean it has to be cast into concrete. It is not the case that there should never be any change in this country, but it is reasonable to take into account the interests of private parties who at that time assumed for good reasons that they formed their policies against the background of certain government regulations. DNB can assess the damage it can cause. In all honesty, I say that DNB's first assessment is that the risks are not that bad, but that is not yet a final assessment. My proposal is to do it nicely and give that consideration some time. It does not mean that we leave the decision-making process with the industry or anything like that. Moreover, we have Mr Groot to warn against this. It takes a little time to do this in a proper way. Perhaps we should come back to this later on when we consider the amendments. Not a word about it being undesirable, but let us wait for the final investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u42	I think it's a very nice argument from the state secretary. I will also remember them before proposals are made to change all kinds of rules unilaterally, for example to one-sidedly increase the leverage ratio for banks in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u43	I am counting on Mrs De Vries in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u44	The State Secretary talks about the Netherlands Bank's investigation to see if there are definitely no risks. When could such an investigation be completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u45	That's a good question. Not in time for this Tax Plan. The aim is soon, but I have not been able to get a clear date up. For that, the estimates were a little too global.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u46	Perhaps you could share the overall assessment somewhat with this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u47	Let me try to produce a "best guess" in the second term. I'm not going to do that out of my head right now, but introduction by 2018 is a possibility, as I said. It could also be introduced per KB. I am not saying that the amendment should be withdrawn; there are all kinds of intermediate solutions to be found. Let me come back to this once and for all in the discussion of the amendments. The date I try to produce, but that is a bit of a target date. We're not DNB, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you for that. I would like to know that before the amendments are dealt with, because if it turns out that it is 1 February, we can just put it in the law, with a KB that will stop it if major problems are found. I would like to put forward such a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u49	That's what I like to philosophize about. I'm just looking at the people who are helping me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u50	I had the same question, namely whether it could be done by KB and whether we could simply set a date, because my patience is a bit exhausted. Can the Secretary of State indicate a date in the second term, for example 1 February? In my view, the investigation does not have to be that thorough. If Mr Omtzigt amends his amendment to that effect, we can just settle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u51	I will try, at the request of the Chamber and several Members, to facilitate me. We'll see what we can do. Mr Van Weyenberg is now completely confused, it seems. Now I'm gonna come up with the backpay payments. That came unexpectedly for a while, but sometimes one letter apparently lands at the right time. The letter I also received from the elderly unions suggests that there is a difference with the injuries. I don't think that's true. The letter gives the impression that the writer thinks that this particular asset counts in the so-called asset income addition, which would put you at a disadvantage. Well, disadvantaged; other people with wealth have that, too. You're supposed to use some of your income, in this case 8%. In this case, this influences the own contribution for the Wlz and the Wmo. That's not true. I feel like this letter is based on a misunderstanding. In that sense, there is no difference between this group and the injuries. So I have the feeling that there is a lack of communication here. Since this is in the domain of VWS, I will see how we can improve communication in cooperation between our two departments. There is plenty of time for that, because it is a t-2 measure. The t hasn't arrived yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u52	That's good news, I think. The Secretary of State thus clarifies that this capital does not count as special assets for the calculation of the own contribution for e.g. the Wlz. Can this information also be published on the website of the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u53	I'll take a look. The Tax Administration can play a role in this, but also other organisations. Let's see how best we can get to that group. I suspect this is a misunderstanding and we can take it away. I'm going to think with my colleague at VWS about how we can make this communication work. Then we get the company follow-up, the BOR. An amendment has been tabled on this subject by Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Schouten. On their amended amendment, I shall return to the discussion of the amendments, I propose. Mrs De Vries asks whether it is true, she says that she would like to hear this once again clearly: that the direct and indirect interests of less than 5% were not already covered by the BOR and that this is no different with the repair. Since 2010, the BOR has been implemented in exactly the same way as it will be after the legislative proposal I have proposed. So material doesn't change anything. The way the IRS ran her, he's gonna run her again. That means there's no profit and no loss. Mrs De Vries also asks whether we are sure that it is not necessary for the continuity of businesses. The Tax Administration has had experience with this since 2010. No cases of obstruction have been identified. I don't think it makes any sense that it is an obstacle either, but I'm willing to say that we're going to keep up. If we come across cases in which that is involved, it is new information and we can get it going. My proposal is to keep an eye on it, so that we know when the BOR comes up again. However, the clear impression is that this does not constitute an obstacle to the continuity of companies. It's been the same since 2010. Mr Omtzigt has asked a question which I interpret as follows: why is my second amendment cheaper than my first? He's asking how that's possible. Happy maybe, but where did the five come from? Is that his question? I can see him confirming that. That's the result of his change. He changed the amendment. The temporary surplus funds held in shares no longer qualify. That means it's getting a smaller batter. There, by the way, we are treating indirect interests in the same way as direct interests. I think that's why. That is what this estimate has been made of. I have already said that the uncertainties surrounding this estimate can still be considerable. These were the remaining things about the BOR. I now come to tax avoidance. Mr Bashir asked for the list. I do not know which list he means by that, but he may mean all kinds of lists and perhaps also the blacklist that is under construction. He's asking how we're gonna prevent that list from being empty soon, if we're not all gonna put countries on it. It is actually his proposal to put countries with a low tax on profits on it. The Netherlands has fundamentally embraced the OECD. That OECD proposal is the best piece of work on tax avoidance that has been done over the last 100 years. I'm willing to take care of that. There are a few things in this, namely anti-abuse measures, transparency and combating all kinds of harmful constructions. This does not include harmonising generic tariffs. The Netherlands does not benefit from a race to the bottom. Yet we really think that countries themselves are about their rates. However, you must be careful with countries with low rates. After all, we do not want our tax revenues, i.e. the tax on the values created here in the Netherlands, and profits that should be taxed here, to leak out to that other country. We do not want that to happen to a country that taxes 0%, but we do not want that to happen to a country that taxes 20%. We just want the profits that belong here to benefit the state treasury in the Netherlands. That's what we want. This is independent of the question of what rate is being applied in another country. The Netherlands therefore wants this to be the way in which the profits to be taxed in the Netherlands are actually taxed in the Netherlands. So that is separate from the question of tariffs. So we're gonna base those blacklists on that sort of thing. Do they have the right anti-abuse measures? Are they participating in all the transparency things and are they being properly implemented? So it could be that the blacklist will be running all the time. That would be fantastic! Then we have achieved a great deal. Because then suddenly a lot of countries are participating in international transparency. And I think it's gonna happen. That's exactly what we need to go for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u54	I am concerned that there will soon be countries with zero rates of tax on profits. Even that's not a criterion for getting on that list. When I read that, I fell off my chair anyway. When will it be a criterion to get on that list? Of course, you have to be involved in transparency. But the profits that should be taxed in the Netherlands depend on the purchase price. If the wholesale trade is in a country where the rate of the profit tax is zero, then companies can, of course, artificially transfer profits to such a country. Then you could pretend that profits are taxed in the Netherlands, whereas those profits are actually taxed in another country at 0%. That seems to me to be tax avoidance. You could even say that's tax evasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u55	Here Mr Bashir and I are getting very close together, because that is simply not the intention. It doesn't matter whether that other country has a profit tax of 0%, or 10%, or -10%. I don't care. The starting point is that our profits are taxed in the Netherlands. For this there are tools, information exchange and anti-abuse measures. So that is independent of the rate, whatever the rate a country has. The profits to be taxed here must be taxed here. A country may or may not suddenly deal with rules on transfer pricing differently if the rate x applies or rate y. That is not the case. We must ensure that our profits are taxed in the Netherlands, because that benefits the Dutch state treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u56	A country does not introduce a 0% profit tax without reason. Such a tariff has been introduced to mislead other countries. A country like that doesn't say, "We don't have a profit tax." No, a country like that says, "We do have a profit tax." However, they do not mention that the rate for this is 0%. If there is such a possibility, it will be used and abused. It seems to me that it is not surprising to say that countries that apply a 0% tax rate are tax havens, and that they will be included on that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u57	On this point, Mr Bashir and I do have differences of opinion. I really want to stay close to the OECD. That's very good work. If we introduce that worldwide, we are very, very, very farther. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked a very good question in this context. It has noted that the exchange of the ruling is sometimes very difficult. He asks the only relevant question you can ask, namely: when then? That's actually his question. Mr Omtzigt also asked that question. The dilemma is, of course, that the Tax Administration is now in the process of detecting the existing rulings. This must be done in all individual files, with the exception of a few cases where it is centrally stored. That's a big deal. All inspectors in the country must go through their own files. So you never know when you'll know until it's finished. I have therefore proposed that, if we have enough samples and if we know which part of the population had an international ruling, we should, at some point, extrapolate in a sensible way. But then we really need to know a little bit more about it. If we've done that, we have an estimate. If we have a substantiated estimate, we can also say when it's finished. Then perhaps we have already invented ways, in consultation with the OECD, to speed up the process. We already have more experience. Then there's a reliable estimate to give. But I can't say much about it right now. It's not good. It's not good. My proposal is to have a substantiated extrapolation in the next half-year report, with a date on which it was exchanged and an indication of how we discussed this with the OECD and what kind of arrangement we have concluded. By then, it's just gonna have to be possible. But now we're guessing a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u58	The deadline for the OECD exchange is 31 December and the next half-yearly report will be in April/May.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u59	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u60	I expect that we will simply receive a letter by 31 December which states the state of play. It's pretty embarrassing that the Netherlands is missing the deadline. If we missed the deadline by three days, we wouldn't have had this discussion. That may be clear. However, we are months behind when we say internationally that we want to do something about it. That is why I want to know the state of play on 31 December. So I want a letter by December 31 with an update of the estimate of the number of rulings. Previously, we assumed that there would be 2,000-3,000 OECD and 6,000-8,000 EU-wide. Has that suddenly become a lot more, as far as we can tell?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u61	My impression is: maybe a little less. But that would also mean that we're already on a bigger part than we think. That's not quite clear yet. People are working very hard on that. It is true that we are behind schedule, but in absolute numbers we are way ahead of schedule. We are one of the countries that has exchanged the most and by far the most in absolute numbers. There are also countries that have not exchanged anything with us. The Netherlands is obviously going very fast. This is also seen in the OECD. About the exact date we're gonna make it, I'm afraid to say so much. I am quite prepared to say on 31 December what numbers we are on. That's just a fact, I don't want to be difficult about it. An updated estimate is a little guesswork and I don't like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u62	Then I hope that, around the last week of December, the first week of January, we will get an update on how we are in that process, both towards the OECD and towards the EU, with some expectation when we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u63	I'd like to give you my word, because we don't have to be secretive about anything. But that's the best guess of that moment. I will have to make all the wandering comments that fit in with that. I found the questions about the self-employed pension very technical. I thought I answered them all on paper. Mr Omtzigt made it clear that he did not yet agree, but I do not have any answers to the questions. A letter was sent about it, which for two pages was about self-retirement. I don't see him right now either. Shall I move on to the mixed questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u64	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u65	Mr Van Weyenberg has also asked an excellent question. He said that the monument deduction would save €800,000 in execution expenses from the Tax Administration and asked how this would be met. These are things that need to be taken into account within the organisation, in the same way that this should have been taken into account if the legislative proposal had not been put forward at all. Somehow capacity will have to be found within the total formation for a certain period of time. I would add that this should have been done if there had not been OCW's initiative to do so. However, we thought we'd find relief. I'm afraid that's not gonna happen for a while. Mr Bashir raised something that Mrs Schouten also raised in a rather colourful way, and that is simplification. Mrs Schouten reiterated the need for simplification. Mr Bashir is actually doing the same thing. I support that word for word, including the quotes that Mrs Schouten swerved into the air from letters from me. I agree with that word for word. This is also a battle. In this respect, Mr Bashir was right. He said: there are all kinds of people ready to take complicating measures in the tax system; if we do nothing, it will only become more complex. Sometimes Europe has a good idea. Every now and then, the cabinet still sees a budgetary difficulty that requires something complicated. In all honesty, the Chamber sometimes comes up with things that don't simplify it directly; let me be careful. It happens a few times, you know. They don't simplify it big, at least not phenomenal. It's all happening. That's why it's a fight. We know that if we do nothing, it will only become more complicated, and if it becomes more complicated, it will go wrong. I'm a little fanatic about that. A large number of election programmes recognise the need for simplification. Besides, it's not just about implementation. It is also a question of aspects that Mr Dijkgraaf has just referred to. He said: we have taken so many income-related measures for specific groups that the accumulation of them also sometimes leads to outcomes that we no longer want. Those things really need to be looked at. The tax system needs to be improved in a number of areas. Because I didn't get enough seats at the table for a broad system review, I've tried it in all kinds of areas with smaller things, more than we'd done for years. But is it enough? No, of course it's not enough. That is my answer to both Mrs Schouten's input and Mr Bashir's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u66	I specifically asked about the monument deduction. We were through that in two lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u67	No, no, no, no. The monument deduction I've now positioned after er... the chairman remembers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u68	Oh, because the Secretary of State devoted three rules to it, I thought it was over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u69	No, no, no, no, that would be a little faint.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u71	The APVs (issued private assets). Mr Bashir is concerned about the allocation stop. He says that if an enterprise is driven into an APV, the allocation stop will continue to apply. He asks whether this could circumvent income tax. With the exception of the so-called close foundations, Finance is not aware of a situation in which a company is driven into an APV. So, for the time being, this is a very theoretical thing. The concern about tax avoidance is not evident here. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Omtzigt both asked about the results of the consultation with SZW on the abolition of the pre-pension requirement. Following consultation with SZW's colleagues, I can report that they are expected in the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u72	I have a very technical question on the previous point. I didn't think of that myself. It was whispered to me by a large, renowned tax office. That said this is possible in his eyes. Thanks to the allocation stop, the APV will soon be able to save a lot of tax. Here's what I'm gonna tell you. I would ask the Secretary of State to look at this even more seriously, because if an office says it is possible and that it is just going to do so because it is already legally regulated, it seems to me that it is just possible. Although it is theoretical and not yet done; it can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u73	One of the lessons I learned most quickly in this job is that MPs sometimes hear things that the ruler doesn't hear at all. There could be some very useful things to do with that. There are more members of this Chamber that I occasionally ask to send me an email or to give me the contact details of someone who knows more about it. We are not going to do this in plenary, but this kind of thing can help enormously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u74	That is what Mr Bashir is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u75	I would like to return to Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Omtzigt's question: these results can be expected in the first quarter of next year. That answer just fell into the water a little bit, so let me say it again. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg also asked about the loading posts. Mr Omtzig asked why? Mr Bashir asked that question earlier. I feel obliged to make a motion from the Chamber, and I am not ashamed of it at all. I'll take that as my job. There is no greater honour than to grant a request from the Chamber. Mr Van Weyenberg asked what is technically necessary to allow a reduced energy tax rate to be applied also for home loading. I do not see, apart from a guaranteed clean character of everyone and free separate meters, any technical means of reducing the risk of fraud. You can never objectively determine what the electricity went into. So I'm on that point a little bit without any suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u76	I was merely suggesting to the Secretary of State that we should have a conversation with the energy companies. I hear from them that there are technological options that should make that possible, for example in combination with the electric car. That may not work today, but in the future I will make that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u77	I would ask Mr Van Weyenberg to mention man and horse, otherwise I will have to interview all the energy companies to find out how they feel about this. I think Mr Van Weyenberg has some more concrete suggestions. They could help us all. Mr Dijkgraaf asked about the export levies. Is there a risk of a road leak? The government's expectations, as well as those of the waste industry, are that the current pricing, combined with current market conditions and tariffs at the gate, will not lead to significant changes in waste flows. But my knowledge of the industry is such that, should that happen, I will be told that too. We are now in a working group with the industry, in which, in cooperation with the waste industry, we are examining the possibility of an export tax that is enforceable not only within the Dutch waste tax but also European law. So this working group is in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u78	It is always nice when working groups not only exist, but are also busy. Otherwise, it won't do you much good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u79	Working groups work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u80	"Sit groups," I hear they say behind me. It's fine that it gets picked up that way. Should that working group reveal that there is a real problem, does the Secretary of State think it would be a good idea to inform the Chamber about this? And if so, what solutions are included? I'd appreciate that, given the preliminaries. We need to keep an eye out for a road leak after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u81	I think that with Mr Dijkgraaf I have one of the spiritual fathers of this levy before me. I certainly feel obliged to keep him informed of all the changes at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u82	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u83	I'm getting on the CO-shuttle cars. In response to a question from Mr Omtzigt, I have denied that this happened. It seemed to happen once, but it didn't happen in the Netherlands afterwards. But exactly on the Sunday evening before that debate, a new message appeared about it. So Mr Omtzigt was absolutely right. I didn't follow the news that night. We have to wait and see if this materializes, whether this relates to the Netherlands and whether we can trace it back to very specific types of cars. But I do feel like I'm gonna go after it after that. In previous cases where CO fraud threatened, we even received letters from the importer, in which he wrote that he felt responsible for these fiscal aspects. That clearly gives us a right to come back. If something is really going on, then we will get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr Omtzigt, there is also a second deadline to be sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u85	I do not hope that setting up a working group is meant by "making work." I specifically asked for two things. First of all, if this is going on, I understand that it's only a few weeks before we know it.....to recover the damage that happened to the car manufacturers who cheated and sold something for which the buyers paid less tax than usual, while those buyers didn't know it, because they thought Audi's cars were very economical. Secondly, I have asked to ensure that the types are re-approved as soon as possible. From now on, for the rest of their lives, the types will keep the CO values they would receive at the time of the inspection or the first authorisation. It is therefore all cars of the same type that will be sold in the coming years. Is the government prepared to consider these two actions and to inform us before 1 March of what cars this applies to and how the government can take these two actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u86	That will not be March 1st, but as soon as we know. As soon as we know, I'll let the Room know, too. By "making work," I mean, in combination with the letter we received earlier, that tax losses should indeed be reimbursed by the manufacturer. That was the position of the cabinet at the time, and we have received positive signals from another car manufacturer; we will do so again. So the answer is yes. We'll have to see if it's necessary to re-evaluate. It may also be that there is no point after the tax losses have been compensated, and that it only makes sense for the new types, but I need to think about that. I don't know yet what's going on or if there's anything going on. I'll get back to you on that as soon as it's known. I don't necessarily wait until March 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u87	Okay, I hope to receive that letter in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u88	As soon as we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u89	This re-examination is indeed necessary, not only because of taxation but also because of the average ceiling on CO limits in Europe. That has to be determined by car. If a car manufacturer has messed around in one country, it can still sell the cars elsewhere. So even if it is not a tax loss, I think it is necessary, also because of a fair field of competition, to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u90	The latter is certainly true, but it is of course the responsibility of the Commission. That is a European fact. That is a very different aspect, but let me take this as a question and include it in the letter that the Chamber receives as soon as we know what is going on. I do this together with the Secretary of State of I and M, who is extremely experienced in the field of scavenging cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u91	How far have you come with your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u92	I'm a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u93	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u94	I am with Mr Groot's question on housing corporations. I'm halfway through with my separate questions and then I come to the questions about OCW. Finally, I have an RVU thing and an amendment. I think we're in the middle of something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u95	Attaboy, move on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mr Groot asked for a letter with options to remove the undesirable taxation of housing corporations. I'd like to admit that for the first quarter of 2017. Mr Van Weyenberg asked when we could expect proposals on the VAT exemption for examinations in vocational education. That has already been mentioned in the legislative consultation. There was the answer: in the first half of 2017. I can't change that answer. Mr Dijkgraaf asked whether the abolition of the VAT agricultural regime should be discussed at EZ or whether we should do so in this Tax Plan. It is true that this is an EZ policy idea and is included in the EZ budget. That's not part of the Tax Plan. Mr Omtzigt welcomed the solution for the group of taxpayers whose loan assistance was converted into a gift. This will be resolved through the final levy. That's what he said. For all cases where the loan assistance has already been granted for 2017 but has not yet been converted into a gift, the final charge also provides a solution. So these are new cases in that sense. However, we do not see a chance to carry out retroactively the old cases, the transposition of which has already taken place before 2017. Implementingly, that's going to be a disaster. Of course, it is possible to provide for payment arrangements for these cases. Those payment arrangements run for up to 24 months. That is a possibility, but in its implementation this is considered an impossible issue. That is disappointing, but we have already had to study very hard to make the forward solution possible, which, by the way, is a great annoyance for Mr Groot, who has stressed this very strongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u97	Mr Groot and a number of spokesmen from other parties have done so. This clearly shows the price of waiting with a solution by this Secretary of State, and also by his predecessor. People get loan assistance. At that time they have no income. That income is set at zero. A year later, for example, they earn €20,000. They then received €15,000 loan assistance. It's converted into a gift. They'll technically earn $35,000. Get rid of all charges. And they have to repay supplements: care allowance, rent allowance, sometimes a piece of child benefit, sometimes an amount of more than €6,000, or even €7,000 or €8,000. These people are only just above the welfare level, because that's what you get when you earn around €20,000, they don't get that assistance for nothing and they don't have those reserves. They have been pushed into debt relief, the Law on debt restructuring of natural persons, just because there has been a wait here with a solution. My compelling appeal to the government is to establish policies that will exempt this group from the reimbursement arrangements. I don't do that much, but I do it now. This is technically impossible, but it is allowed on the basis of a demand system. I can imagine it's hard for the tax authorities to figure out what happened, but hotlines can be set up these days. With a single telephone number, it is possible to consider in a reasonable manner how to prevent these people from suffering from the fact that a solution has been reached too late for years to come. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr Omtzigt says: this is the price of waiting. I think he actually knows that this is not the price of waiting but that these are the costs of complexity and customization. These are the costs of complexity. If I have been given the firm conviction that something is not possible, then I do not often choose to look at it again. But if Mr Omtzigt announces doing something he doesn't often do, I will do it too. I'm gonna look at it one more time, but I'm gonna say I'm selling no if I can't reasonably. But I do agree to have another look at this at my table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u99	I thank the Secretary of State for the commitment and I am waiting for that feedback, because I assume that this will be done in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u100	Proceed, Mr Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr Krol would like to test his hypothesis that the tax administration is missing billions. The tax authorities' control capacity is not the subject of this debate. This point has been discussed in the various AO's on the Tax Administration. I fully understand that Mr Krol, in a group whose size is not always the same, cannot always give the impression, but I think that he should simply find the answers to this question and similar questions in the legal history. It's all been discussed in AO's. We shouldn't all do that again. I understand that he cannot always be in ten places at once, but there are a lot of spokesmen here who have been there and they may not need to have that debate about it. This question and many others can be answered in the various Acts. The same goes for his question about box 3. He asked me to go into detail on all the experts' proposals regarding box 3. That's what I did. We have had several AOs on this proposal, which was already in last year's Tax Plan and not in this year's. So it's not up ahead. It's not on the agenda. The various spokesmen have also spoken very extensively about it. On this point too, therefore, I refer to the history of law. Mr Krol found all the answers to his questions there. I'm coming to the OCW section now. I think there were questions about what's going to happen next. In all honesty, I thought that the answer to those questions was either satisfactory or unsatisfactory, but the letter from my colleague was different from one spokesperson to another. So what are the questions? Look, the spokesmen are coming to the microphones. So there are questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u102	I don't know if it's me, but the Secretary of State hasn't said anything yet. Oh, it was the Secretary of State himself who asked a question. The Secretary of State himself is not allowed to interfere either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u103	I asked two specific questions. The first was: how come we were told in the legislative consultation that investigations were first carried out and that a choice was made as a result of these investigations, but now the documents show that a choice was made first and that no research was then carried out but an analysis was made in search of a basis? We were already confronted with the fact that the Minister was just joking about what was in the 2009 investigation. It said that, with a few comments, it was simply efficient and efficient. But the minister said exactly the opposite. Now we are faced with that again. I really want to have an explanation from the Secretary of State and the Minister together on how the Chamber has been informed about the justification of a few hundred million in grants and how they are accounted for. You may or may not be in favour of this, but you cannot inform the Chamber in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u104	For that, I am not sufficiently involved in the matter. There was a plan in the spring. It was then analysed in the summer on the basis of data provided by the Tax Administration. My knowledge of the process doesn't go beyond that. I propose that I pass this question on to my colleague and that I look at how we answer this question in consultation with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u105	I expect that answer tomorrow before the votes. I can be very clear about this. On several points we have not been told what has happened and a false argument has been tried to push us through a bill. Mr Grashoff, for example, is very much in favour of moving from a tax system to a subsidy scheme. There may be reasons for that. But it should not be said that there is a secret investigation, which is not an investigation but an analysis, an analysis that was only carried out after the bill was written. Nor can it be that the scope of the investigation is not faithfully communicated to the Chamber and that it is then said to be secret. Really, in military missions, I can imagine all kinds of secrets, but with the deduction of monuments, I can only imagine very few, to be honest. I think I have done it now, because it is indeed more for the Minister, who can really take this seriously. The second question had to do with the fact that the Minister made a huge point of the fact that kitchens and floors were deductible. I said that here in the Chamber: I do not think that floors are deductible in the scheme. Mr Dijkgraaf proved to have a little more knowledge of this than I do. Yeah, that was right. I said: if kitchens, boilers and geysers are deductible, it can be adjusted fiscally in the scheme if that is seen as a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u106	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u107	I say this because the Minister explicitly writes: if you allow it to go through a year longer and if everyone knows that he can replace a boiler with about half a subsidy for a year, then we know what is happening in this country. We understand that, too. So if we see that problem, is there any reason to adapt the scheme in such a way that not all monuments will be provided with a new kitchen next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u108	I forgot this question. I apologize for that, but now that I remember him, I remember him differently. I thought Mr Omtzigt asked: would it have been possible, without a conversion into a subsidy scheme, to get rid of it as a tax system by getting things out of it? The answer to that is obvious: yes, of course it can. Whether this is possible in this period and in anticipation of a legislative proposal, I cannot judge now. I can't see that soon if the Tax Administration can apply a change of course in the execution he's working on right now. The answer to that question is therefore not ready, but the answer to that other question is of course: yes, of course it could have been, only there was a desire on the part of the Minister of Education to defiscalise the scheme and to shape it as a subsidy scheme. Those two things were taken together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u109	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u110	I understand that they were taken together, but I would like to put the following question here. The Minister of OCW has said here with great emphasis that she feels that this is undesirable. There is also the point that the new kitchen and the new heating installation in a building of monuments do not have to be paid half by the rest of the population. That is really different from the maintenance of a monument, because it is ordinary costs that an owner of an ordinary house also carries. That is why I am asking whether the Secretary of State can return to the question of whether an adjustment is possible and whether the risk is that high. If the risk is high and if it turns out that this has occurred next year, then I do not want to say here: well, we could have spent that money better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u111	This is a different question than what I understood him first. This is about the anticipation risk with regard to the boilers and the kitchens. This raises the question of whether it is desirable and technically feasible to anticipate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u113	That's a clear question. I do not know if the answer is material for the votes, but I am going to proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u114	This is striking again. First, it had to be because that would be demonstrated by the 2009 investigation. That did not appear to be the case. Then it had to be because it was a secret investigation. That turned out to be not an investigation, but rather a justification afterwards. Moreover, in the documents, the Minister of OCW writes that she does not see any limitation in taxation, but the Secretary of State is now saying: if you want it, you can. That is also what I think is relevant new information from today. My question is just another one. I really don't understand. We had a five-hour debate in the legislative consultation with the Minister of OCW in which she was able to clearly see that there was no parliamentary support. We will then receive a letter from the cabinet asking the Chamber to hold the debate: we will suspend it for the time being and the cuts for next year on monuments will at least be off the table. Then we will have a new letter the day before we take part in plenary sitting in which the Minister writes very nicely: we are going to adopt the new regulation in January, because the Committee on Education is going to agree and I am simply going to 'right as it goes'. What's the government's opinion? Did it listen to the Chamber and say: there is no support? Or have we been given a note about delay, when the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the light of the
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u115	I'll go into the non-asked question at first. I did not say here that I would be in favour of keeping the scheme fiscal and limiting its categories. I find the scheme difficult to implement for the Tax Administration. All kinds of limitations in the matter of such forms are difficult to handle in a service such as the Tax Administration. At the same time, the Minister indicated that the regulation was difficult to control at the same time. So I didn't make a plea here to do this. I have responded to the question as to whether it would have been possible to impose limits on taxation. There are limits, but you can change them. That would have been possible; not that I consider it desirable, but it is possible. The question that Mr Van Weyenberg is asking is what the intention is. The bill's ahead. It's still a bill, too. The intention is to continue with this, but it has been said from various quarters, among others by Mr Van Weyenberg, that we should not leave a tax regime until we have a complete view of a new regime. He also said that his balance depends not only on what disappears, but also on what comes. From this point of view, the Minister of OCW will have decided to further underpin this. In the spring, the Minister of OCW will send that replacement expenditure scheme to the Chamber to enable the Chamber at that time to make the complete balance. I understand that Mr Van Weyenberg says he can't decide on it now because he doesn't have the information. But that also means that the judgment now cannot be that it would be undesirable. So from that point of view, the Minister of OCW will have thought that we will proceed with this bill when the replacement expenditure regime is clear and in the Chamber, so that the Chamber can make an overall assessment. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u116	The criticism was also different, namely that the possible adjustment of the scheme to which I always want to look openly was now entrusted with more than half the budget. That's where the shoe is. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the number of people able to benefit from the training scheme goes back from 200,000 to 40,000? I read in the letter from the Minister of OCW at the same time that she wants to cut the scheme as early as January. In my opinion, there was a broad feeling in the Chamber that this austerity cannot be achieved and that a solution must be found to this problem in the spring paper. Then that's still the wrong order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u117	I am not able to make predictions here about the consequences, including the behavioural effects, of an OCW scheme that is not yet final. I do not think this is the place to go over the budget of OCW either. There are really other places for that. There's a little bit of the boundaries of my involvement here. I simply do not have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u118	I understand the somewhat complicated position of the Secretary of State, but I have the impression that we have been talking to deaf ears in that legislative consultation. That would have been five hours lost. But it's clear. The cabinet has apparently received the signal that the majority of the Chamber simply does not see anything in these cuts, because the coalition parties were very critical just like the entire opposition except Mr Van Vliet. But it is clear: the signal clearly needs to be delivered even more powerfully. Fortunately, we have a second deadline for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u119	I'm gonna get into this after all. During the debate, we stated in substance that it was the wrong order. First, a burden increase was entered and then we started to think about how we should all shape it. That's highly unusual. The Chamber has made a gesture, but last week's letter from the minister of OCW shows that we are continuing on the same track again. That's the impression the letter leaves. The Chamber has agreed to keep the bill. Should we send out the most far-reaching signal and say that the law should be repealed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u120	The intention of the Minister of OCW is to deal with this law as soon as the arrangements have been further developed. If the Chamber has any other thoughts or wishes on this matter, the Chamber must make them known. It is clear that, if it is up to her, the law will be discussed and dealt with at the time when there is clarity about the expenditure regime. In that sense, this was in line with the wish of the Chamber to do away with the old shoes only when there is a view of the new ones and to assess the content. That's how she wrote the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u121	We are going to establish the arrangements in January, while there is still a gap in the spring note. The Minister of Finance said that in 2018 about €21 million will be saved on the educational mistakes, including to close the gap for 2017. Everything that we have said in the consultation 'don't do it this way' continues. Does the Secretary of State understand that this calls for some alienation at the committee about a discussion which we want to conduct very carefully and have tried to conduct?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u122	No offense about the care of the Chamber, but I am not here as Minister of Finance or Minister of OCW. I know that the cabinet speaks with one voice and I understand exactly why Mrs Schouten is speaking to me now. Not a bad word about that either. But I do not have the immediate answer to all these questions and considerations. I'm not exactly the right person for that. It's all legitimate. I'm standing here now and it's originally part of the Tax Plan package. I'm not saying anything, but I don't have the answer to all the questions. I will ensure that the questions are forwarded to my colleague, who does have an answer to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u123	We're talking a lot about clamping today, but this is going to be a time clamp. We only have the Secretary of State here who can give answers. We understand that it is something that is outside the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Education. The point is that we have tried to agree on a careful procedure for this. The cabinet itself goes through that, which leads to questions coming to this Secretary of State. We will consider how we can most clearly convey to the cabinet how to deal with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u124	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u125	I think you were with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u126	No, there was one more RVU question, Mr Omtzigt's question. That question too is actually about another debate. He talks about December and January e-mails containing the term "RVU." In drawing up the facts, I have found that all kinds of crucial elements of decision-making are lacking and are not traceable in a reasonable time. I have therefore asked the committee to further map that white stain. I think it's important. If there are warnings and uncertainties in the decision-making process and if they are not reflected in the formal documents, we must also look at the informal side. I asked that committee of wise men. It looks at culture, at all kinds of informal decision-making processes and takes this with it. I do not want to ride through it and not have all kinds of half, missing or even wrong information. That needs to be integral and clear. My proposal is to take it into account and ask the Committee of Wise Men to take it with them and report on it at the time it reports. That's January. I will ensure that no information is lost prematurely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u127	Thank you. I have good reason to believe that the RVU tax was extensively warned within the Ministry and within the Tax Administration last December. I would like to ask that, at the beginning of January, when that investigation has been carried out, the list of e-mails requested should also be available. That is simply a question that I raised with reference to Article 68 of the Constitution. I understand the Secretary of State needs a little more time for that, but I do want those e-mails, so I know exactly who knew this. It concerns a fine of between €150 million and €200 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u128	Premeditated: the hunger for understanding about what happened, I completely understand. I have heard Mr Omtzigt's question very well. Since I can't see why it's going on, I just have to think about the way I'm sending the information to the Chamber. The Chamber has a very clear wish. I need to think about how I can communicate in an appropriate way, in the openness that fits in with this. Because I do not know at all why this could be done and how the committee works, I do not want to get in the way of the committee either. That's the battle I'm holding on to, because I don't even know what it's about yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u129	My information request was there before it was moved to committee. I asked for those e-mails and the Secretary of State moved it to the committee, perhaps because something interesting has been found. That's his right, but that doesn't mean my original question is gone. I strongly ask for a written overview of all the emails of the Tax Administration from December 2015 and January 2016 which contain the word "RVU." I have no difficulty in submitting this question in writing. I can even submit WOB requests; I can do everything, you know. That's how we get an insight into what happened. The reason I am so persevering is that the Secretary of State said in the debate that was going on about this: I checked it in the document system and there was nothing to be found in it. It could be that it's all in the e-mail system. That's why I just want that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u130	The request is clear. Before I make commitments about something to do with a research by professionals, I should understand myself with the researchers. But the question is crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u131	Finally. Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u132	I didn't ask about the research by professionals. The Secretary of State initiated that investigation. I think this is wise. That's why I'm giving him until Christmas to send that whole list of e-mails to the Chamber. That list can just come up in five to six weeks; it's probably one search query. It shows exactly what happened there; I just want to be able to judge those e-mails. It's not a majority request. It is a request under Article 68 of the Constitution for information which exists and which was previously unknown. I'm assuming I'm just getting that information. Otherwise, I will press very hard and remind the Secretary of State every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u133	The request is crystal clear, but it is only a question of a net household to have a say with those involved in the investigation. The request is perfectly clear. The Chamber, supported by the Constitution, requests information. It is perfectly clear to me what information that is and what it serves for, but the cabinet determines how it deals with that article. I understand Mr Omtzigt's request very well. Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendments. A number of unchanged amendments are in writing...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u134	The following may be discussed. I have a few questions about auxiliary boilers, cover and EIA. Perhaps they will be dealt with systematically in any case in the discussion of the amendments by the Secretary of State, but I do not know whether he is going to go through all the amendments or just those that have not yet been responded to in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u135	Only those that didn't respond in writing were my plan. But Mr Grashoff is free to ask all the questions he has.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u136	Do you want me to do it now or later? I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u137	I think it's wise to do it at the end. We can then look at which amendments have been dealt with and which have not been dealt with in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u138	I should like to comment on the amendment to item No. 31 by Mr Bashir on the increase in the VAT rate and the reduction in the landlord's levy. An increase in the Vpb tariff has a negative impact on the locational environment. A reduction in the landlord's tax has not been necessary, as the Minister for Housing and the National Service's letters have shown. I therefore advise against this amendment. Mr Grashoff has taken part in the debate. 29 tabled an amendment on the abolition of the exemption for extraterritorial costs, including the 30% scheme. I think the scheme is useful, but it is being evaluated at the moment. I do not think it is desirable to anticipate the results. I don't recommend the amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 30 members Bashir and Gesthuizen. There is a tariff measure in the Vpb. The first disc in the Vpb is not extended, but the rate is reduced to about 18,75%. I have already said that this will increase the distorting effect, because differentiation is increasing. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. In part No. 32 Mr Bashir tabled an amendment aimed at indexing excise duties on cigarettes and tobacco. We expressly did not choose to do so. It's another indexing more. But if you're asking me if there's a serious downside to it, then... I just want to leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 34 by Mr Grashoff is about not extending the first disc in the Vpb. We have discussed this in detail before. I do not think that Mr Grashoff is surprised that I am dissuading the amendment, precisely because of the reasons I have put forward for extending it. Mr Grashoff argues in the amendment to item No. 33 for an increase in energy taxation and the reduction in labour costs. That's a bigger tax increase than last year's letter said. It leads to a unilateral burden increase for companies, but because a large part of it is covered by the ETS regime, it does not lead to a significant reduction in CO. That is why I reject the amendment. In part No. 36 Mr Van Vliet has tabled an amendment to set the flat-rate rate of return in box 3 at 5%, while at the same time increasing tax-free capital. I do not think we make large groups of people happy with 5%. The solution must be in something else. I don't recommend this variant. In the amendment to item No. 39 deletes Mr Van Vliet's reduction of the working discount. The amendment is not covered, while it concerns billions. That is why I must advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u139	That amendment on box 3 is not about that 5%. That 5% is only available to cover within box 3 from raising the threshold exemption to €45,000. That's the central point. It is much simpler than what is now a transitional model. Moreover, it does respond to the concerns of people in the country, namely savers. It is very faint about the amendment to item No. 39 to say it's not covered. Because it's covered. That cover will be dealt with in my second term on a point of order. Why a motion? Because the people of the department have said: we do not have the manpower to turn all your proposals for cover into amendments. Everyone here uses the department to implement amendments; we do not have to lie to each other about them. It was said that what you are proposing is the biggest simplification operation we can apply. Cover will be in motion shortly. The amendment is indeed covered for the full amount of EUR 2.7 billion, calculated by the Central Planning Office, which states that the coverage is worth that amount. I really want to have noticed that here. I'm not doing anything without cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u140	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u141	As a value statement, I like this very much. I know Mr Van Vliet as well, but I have never seen an amendment covered by a motion before. When it comes to this kind of large sums, there is some caution. I'll do some puzzles about it in the second term. I honestly do not expect the cabinet to be enthusiastic about funding 2.7 billion by way of a motion, but at the same time I want to do justice to Mr Van Vliet. So I'm just gonna put this on the thought pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u142	I would suggest to the honourable Member that this be included in the explanatory statement. In the explanatory statement you can simply say: this is covered in this way. Then, at least for everyone in the vote, it is clear where the cover is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u143	Yeah, but then it's gonna have to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u144	This is a good point from Mr Dijkgraaf. I've been put a little on the wrong foot myself. I will mention in the explanatory statement that coverage, including numbers, has been incorporated fully into the motion that will be coming shortly. I'm tying them up. That's how everyone knows. I thank Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u145	Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u146	I think that the amendment is part of item No. Mr Grashoff (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It is a question of increasing the first instalment of the tax on natural gas. I think the proceeds will go to district heating. Am I right? With regard to the brother, the amendment on the other hand, I said that it should be discouraged at the moment, but that research has now been started to see whether this would come up against objections or whether it would be reasonable in the future. This amendment is in itself, but is therefore linked to something that is currently not recommended. Does that also have to discourage it? I think so. I see them in conjunction and I have shown myself to be benevolent by taking a serious look at them. But Mr Grashoff looks difficult and ponders for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u147	In that sense, of course, I am not surprised by the answer given by the Secretary of State. I have the feeling that we can just settle this and that I would like the Secretary of State to focus his research on a much wider range of heat supplies, as he himself said. Remains the question of coverage and the extent of coverage. It does matter, and it would also be possible to find the support that my colleagues in the Chamber have for my amendment. I must have the cover in that amendment. The word 'coverage' is strange, because there is a situation in which, in any case, there is only a loss of 3 million in direct terms; so I have read the letter from the Secretary of State. In addition, the Secretary of State stated in his letter: if more installations were to change, there would be a greater loss of tax revenue. Does he agree with me that that reasoning is not correct? In fact, when another plant would change, there was not a loss but an increase in the tax revenue that could not be recovered. I cannot imagine that this increase would already be in the estimates of the Tax Administration. That would be a very uncertain estimate of additional tax revenues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u148	I can't completely oversee this. I shall come back at a later stage to do justice to this. Then we look at this in conjunction. In this way we can see what the estimate is and what the content of the action is. Let me mark this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u149	For the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u150	Then perhaps we have just had a moment to take care of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u151	It depends!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u152	Well, then a little delay doesn't make much sense. A small consultation would help to clarify and better serve the members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u153	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u154	With the amendment in part No. 7 (34545) by Mrs De Vries, the reduced rate for the loading posts will be covered in an alternative way. I see no objection to that. I therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. With his amendment to item No. 42 Mr Krol expressed his interest in a more gradual reduction of the elderly discount. Now it's going more abruptly. I get his wish. This wish could also emerge in the examination of the marginal printing plates. But this just goes money from working people to the elderly. Since we have just seen that many workers pay more tax on the same income than the elderly, I do not know whether this makes any sense. So I'm not supporting this operation right now. I have to discourage the amendment. Moreover, technically this can no longer be taken into account for 2017, as this simply requires a system change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u155	The Secretary of State says that he has no objection to the amendment in which the EIA is put forward as cover, but there is a miraculous misunderstanding to me so far. On the one hand, I hear that there is under-utilisation at the EIA and that it can therefore be used fairly easily as a source of cover, while on the other hand I read in the amendment that the rates of payout of the EIA are being adjusted. That means a slimming of the EIA scheme. Can the Secretary of State tell me exactly what's going on? For me, it's a whole different thing from the other. I wouldn't want to undress that EIA scheme at all, even for a small part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u156	Are we giving everyone less or isn't it already underutilized? That's a good question. I do not have the EIA budgets at hand here, but there will also be an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u157	I would just like to point out that there has been a great deal on top of the employment discount in recent years. A very small fraction, 1.25%, would go from that. I think that's very reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u158	Not everything small is to be applauded. At the moment, the government does not choose to transfer money from workers to the elderly on top of the purchasing power package, which already covers almost two thirds of the population. I come to the Dijkgraaf/Omtzigt amendment on part No. 43 on legal tickets and plant protection products. I said earlier that this amendment, in its present form, with the current timing, should be discouraged. We could do it through an entry into force at KB. I would therefore suggest to the proposers that they shape it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u159	The Secretary of State has not yet been able to see this, but the amended amendment to item No. 50's in by now. That's what it's gonna do. It states that it will enter into force at a time to be determined by Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u160	I see that amendment here. It goes a little far to figure it out in one minute, but I'm gonna have to take a look at it. It would be nice if it could be arranged like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u161	You'll come back to it later? That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u162	The slightly amended amendment by Mr Omtzitzt/Schouten in part No. 12 on the succession scheme (BOR) also in this form leads to a distinction between direct and indirect interests that was not there at first. In addition, it increases the implementation costs. That's not the choice of the cabinet. That is why I reject this amendment. The Omtzitt/Schouten amendment in part No. 13 wants to reverse the simplification of wine excise duty. This simplification was already implemented in 2013. I attach great importance to simplification. That is why I would advise against the amendment. The fact that this simplification has already been launched may also shed new light on the issue. Perhaps, therefore, the proposers may have different thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u163	No, we're not making any other thoughts about that, but thank you for the invitation. Does this mean that the tax on champagne will fall by more than 50% next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u164	I do not have the exact figures for this particular product in mind anymore, but if Mr Omtzigt really thinks that something should be done about that, I would like to suggest to him not to reverse the simplification but to think of a tariff measure. That is not what the cabinet stands for, but it at least leaves the simplification intact. That's a different button. Mr Omtzigt is the one who will have to vote on this later. If he thinks that tariffs are out of balance in this respect, I would like to give him that option under consideration. That is not what the cabinet recommends, but it certainly makes it easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u165	The tax on champagne will fall by more than 50% next year. Under the guise of simplification, I can sell a lot. However, I told the Secretary of State something else. The tax on tap water has been increased, the income tax has been increased, the VAT has been increased and the landlord levy has been increased. If I list it all, the debate will run out. Can the Secretary of State call me one other tax, one of the last five years, which has been reduced by 50%?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u166	No, I certainly can't put that out of my head right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u167	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u168	So this cabinet's top priority this year was to lower the champagne tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u169	No, no, no. If Mr Omtzigt disagrees with the rates, I would suggest that he table an amendment to that effect. There is little opposition to simplification and the organisation of the different product categories. It's complicated, and it can be simpler. The tariff question is another question. Mrs Schouten has tabled an amendment, on item No. 44, on reducing the landlord's tax. The excise duty on smoking tobacco must go to the zero-on-the-meter houses. It has not been demonstrated, even according to the person responsible, that additional incentives for zero-on-the-meter housing are necessary. There is also already a subsidy, namely the STEP (Stimulation scheme energy performance rental sector). It seems useful to focus first on STEP. Moreover, the increase in excise duty on tobacco products cannot be regulated as of 1-1-2017. That can only be done by a slightly later date. That would nibble the cover too. All in all, I would like to discourage this amendment. I should like to thank Mrs Schouten for her excellent report. 45. This deserves more attention. It is about phasing out the payout of the non-cashable part of the work discount and also of the IACK (income-dependent combination discount). This amendment simply fits in with the development of a tax system that is increasingly aimed at the individual. Actually, Mrs Schouten is pulling out a non-individual piece. This even has a positive effect on employment on balance. It strengthens the incentive to work and has a negative impact on the choice not to work. The marginal pressure decreases a little for anyone with an income in the second disc. It also has a positive impact on the economic independence of the least-earning partners. I must say that I am very positive about this, but it is furious. We're shifting a quarter billion here in one sweep. Nor can SZW's colleagues see whether this is fully thought out and whether it would contain unmanageable income effects. It is very fierce and it is not feasible in 2017. It couldn't happen until 2018. Frankly, the word "dissuade" hardly fits in with something so positive. I think this is a very good amendment, but, I'm sorry, it's going very ferocious. We're shifting a quarter of a billion, don't exactly see it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u170	That combination "destroyed" and Mrs. Schouten...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u171	... and it can't be as of 1-1-2017. But there you go. What we have to do, however, is a little short-sighted, I do realize that this point is involved in the SZW research and see if this is actually as positive in all its effects as it says here. That's what I'm offering. I have not been able to make such a thorough analysis of it and have it made by colleagues who are talking about purchasing power, that I can say: we embrace it and it is now law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u172	In my opinion, I have never seen an amendment get so many positive words from a ruler, but in the end he says, "Don't do it."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u173	Neither do I, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u174	That's why I'm gonna try. The Secretary of State says, "Let's do an investigation." Let me get him out of the dream: we didn't come up with all this ourselves. We have this from the reports of the Secretary of State's own officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u175	Sure, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u176	They've already investigated all this, including the income effects. To be precise, page 117 of the annex to the report gives a detailed breakdown of all the income effects of this measure. The Secretary of State will be there, and I will come straight to see Mr Van Weyenberg, because he said: it is not possible for 82% of the two-earners to improve on this. We had a little debate on that yesterday. In 4% of the two-earners, there is no effect. The rest has a small negative effect. I see the point of feasibility. So I'm going to make a proposal to the Secretary of State. If we cannot introduce it right away, I would like to see whether we can introduce this amendment by 2018. I know it is not so common to table amendments in a year's time, but in this type of amendment, the point is very often that the provisional attack has already been established and we cannot table amendments anymore. If I turn "2017" into "2018" and see if, as far as the Secretary of State is concerned, there are really some very ferocious things in there that can still be adjusted a little bit on parts, can I table the amendment in that way and get the opinion of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u177	I am not going to intervene on my own in the government's purchasing power policy. That clearly requires a back-speech. I now find the amendment very furious. Mrs Schouten says: I understand the point of that date, but there are also other dates possible. This also seems to me to be something to go back with and ask about. I am not going here on my own, while there are also ministers responsible for purchasing power, deciding to do so anyway. I clearly admire the proposal. But this is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u178	In my view, I am giving room to really look again at the purchasing power effects. My thesis is that they have already been viewed, because that very nice table on page 117 already exists. I also understand why the Secretary of State says he wants to take a good look at it. But I can record it in 2018. Once again, if we cannot do so now, we will come to exactly the same point next year, namely that it cannot be introduced because the preliminary attack is already ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u179	I understand the dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u180	So I'm in some kind of circle that I can't get out of if the Secretary of State doesn't take the hand I'm putting out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u181	The hand I put out was that I would make another phone call to my colleagues about Mrs Schouten's new date. I have to say, it's experienced as very ferocious. There are people who know a lot about this and who've been through a lot of these surgeries. They say that there may be unforeseen aspects to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u182	Will you come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u183	I'll come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u184	I think that's a good gesture, but then I really want to know what that rage is. Your own officials say there are hardly any purchasing power effects. Again, I didn't think of it, it's all been investigated. I would like to know what this rage is about, if there are only positive elements in it for the rest, and I am trying to think with the Secretary of State about how he can achieve it technically. I really hope he can give us an insight into that in the second term. Now it's an open cry, and I don't know what to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u185	Clear. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u186	I'm gonna back Mrs. Schouten up. Maybe that'll surprise her. This amendment was tabled following a speech by Mrs Schouten on both marginal pressure and effect and on the imbalance between one and two earners she experienced. If I understand the amendment correctly, it focuses on the marginal pressure, which I am also concerned about, and does not aim to distinguish between one and two earners. Mrs Schouten and I have different views. Does the Secretary of State wish to give his own appreciation in the second term even more explicit? I read the amendment. I have the impression that there is a group of two-earners who may have a disadvantage, but I do want that to be more precise and sharper. After my interruption to Mrs Schouten, I think it is fair to say the following honestly here. On the basis of the piece I have now, it was not intended to go from two- to one-earners. But I think it is important for the Secretary of State to address that point explicitly in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u187	That makes a little break by now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u188	Yeah, I promised you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u189	I have already spoken in favour of Mr Omtzigt's emergency braking procedure. I would like to leave the amendment to the Chamber's opinion, but I would say that the changes that come out of such an emergency braking procedure would not be mid-year, but would take effect on 1-1-2018. As you wait longer, that date of course also shifts. But I remain positive about this idea. I shall therefore leave the amendment to the Chamber's judgement, but the date of intervention will then be postponed. I come to the amendment to item No. 47. Mr Omtzigt had already threatened to do so. I have previously, in a free moment, been sympathetic to this idea, as Mr Omtzigt knows. But we have what we have now. I really think this is a crossing station. The decision-making process has been over. The considerations have been very broad, including about 4%. I'm really going to discourage this amendment. I am therefore through the new amendments as they were at the beginning of the debate. A small pile has grown in the meantime. A little work needs to be done on that. I have also made a number of commitments and heard further considerations which also involve some work. It's gonna take a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u190	I understand. Thank you for your answers. We are now going to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u191	Mr. Chairman. We have already raised the first point in the WHO. I asked the Secretary of State twice to bring forward the evaluation of the cost of work. He hasn't agreed to that yet, which is why I put it in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the working costs regime introduced on 1 January 2015 should make it simpler and easier for both public authorities and employers;]] [[noting that there are signs that it has only become more complex and that the scheme is in any case difficult to work for SMEs;]] [[having noted that an evaluation of the working costs scheme is planned for 2018;]] [[Calls on the Government to bring forward the review of the working costs scheme one year and to implement it in 2017 instead of in 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u192	I have a number of points that have already been raised in my first term. First of all, the proposal of the Time Clamps. I indicated in the first term that we consider this an interesting point, also because it increases people's freedom of choice. We await the CDA's amended amendment. However, we ask that we at least include what the Financial Markets Authority has to note on that point. We believe that it is important to take account of the issue of consumers. We think that Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP's amendment on plant protection is a good amendment. We will support it. Then I come to the company follow-up scheme (BOR). Thank you to the Secretary of State for his commitment to see how this arrangement is working out. For the VVD, the most important thing is that the continuity of family businesses is not at stake. We understand that there is no material change compared to the time before the judgment. We ask the Secretary of State to return to the House of Representatives after one and two years of experience, whether there have been problems and whether there have been cases where the regulation has really caused problems. I hope the Secretary of State can confirm that. I'm coming to the memorial and education allowance. A number of points have already been exchanged by a number of parties. In the first term, I have already indicated that the VVD considers it important that we look at the proposal again in its entirety. Are we gonna do it tax or non-tax? What kind of arrangement is there going to be? How are you supposed to deal with the austerity? Is it possible to cut costs without affecting, for example, the preservation of monuments? We believe that this calls for a new fundamental debate next year. I was not very positive about the letter in which the impression was given that we are simply continuing along this path. As far as we are concerned, there will be a fundamental and comprehensive discussion about the overall package that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u193	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering again many questions. There are a number of legislative proposals on the agenda for tomorrow's vote. The first is the Act temporarily reduced rate of charging poles with independent connection. I will advise my group to vote against it. I've never seen such a ridiculous bill with so little effect. In addition, two legislative proposals on State Monuments and Training measures were on the agenda. They've been canceled. I did not participate very much in the debate on this today, but I must say that I thought it was a ridiculous debate in the legislative consultation. We wasted five hours of our time. The Minister of OCW had not prepared for the debate. She hadn't read the pieces. I would like to inform the Cabinet that this is not the quality we expect of the directors. I will advise my group to vote in favour of the Tax Simplification Bill. I will also advise my group to vote in favour of the other fiscal measures. My plea for self-employed retirement remains valid. I would have preferred us to make it possible for the pension to be divided into two parts: one part for the partner, which is externally housed, and a part of dga, so that it can be bought off and cut off. That has still not been made possible. That remains a loss, but I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill, because it will help you unpress a lot of money. That's good for the economy. That money can then be invested again, also outside the framework of the e.g.. One more point remains: box 3. The rates of box 3 will be increased as of 1 January for high power. At the same time, little is being done against avoidance, which means that large assets will be able to flee to box 2 and that ordinary people will pay a lot of tax and people with a lot of wealth will avoid tax. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the tax burden can be significantly reduced by moving large assets from box 3 to box 2;]] [[Considering that this may become even more frequent as the difference in tax burden between box 3 and box 2 for large assets increases from 1 January 2017;]] [[calls on the government to monitor capital flights to Box 2 intensively and, if necessary, to put forward rapid measures to stop capital flights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. file/34552]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u194	Then my question about BASF remains. I have just looked at exactly what is happening in relation to Mrs De Vries' question. BASF does have employees herself, but she has 20 or 21 daughters here. There are no employees there. Those daughters are used to avoid tax in other countries. If that's not the case, I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. I come to my final point: the 2017 Tax Plan. There's a question mark there. I will have a moment to consider whether I recommend to my group that we vote in favour or against, but that also depends a little on what happens to our amendments and our motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u195	I now give the floor to Mr Van Vliet. I understand that all colleagues agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u196	I'm not lying to you, Madam President. I had arranged that, also on behalf of Mr Grashoff. Mr. Chairman. I sincerely and sincerely thank the Secretary of State for the answers given to my previous questions. It may also be said: I thought that was just good answers. The issues I raised in the first legislative consultation were my points this time. They have been answered satisfactorily, so here's to it. It's possible. It seems, by the way, that this has, for the time being at least, been my last tax plan. I have always found it an honor to have this debate. It is one of the most important debates of the year. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for the insights they have gained and sometimes shared. I have incorporated some of the key points in my counter-budget into two amendments: one on a simpler transition model for box 3, which is going in the direction of the real rate of return later, and one on removing the reduction of the working cut. Its coverage consists of a wide range of simplifications through broad-based broadening. In consultation with the department I have decided to include the necessary cover in a motion; that may be a bit different. In the meantime, if it is correct, an amended amendment has been circulated. There's a link to the motion in the explanatory statement. That is a pragmatic gesture, also to the officials of the Treasury, which did not have the manpower to knit it around in two or three weeks. Here comes the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Mr Van Vliet (S). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Van Vliet for his excellent report. 39) submitted;]] [[Whereas this requires a €2.7 billion cover, resulting from the counter-budget of the Van Vliet Group calculated by the CPB and consisting of abolishing a combination of deductions, which also entails a very robust simplification of the tax system;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish:]] [[the deduction due to no or low household debt (at EUR 0.7 billion);]] [[the reduction in the amount of donations (at €0.4 billion);]] [[the anbi-facilities in the Succession Act (at EUR 0.2 billion);]] [[the reduced VAT rate on various leisure activities (at EUR 0.9 billion);]] [[VAT exemption for various social clubs (at EUR 0.3 billion);]] [[the current form of the 30% scheme by means of capping (at EUR 0.2 billion);]] [[In total, this will amount to EUR 2.7 billion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u197	I hear Mr Omtzig say something, but we will talk about it again with a glass of wine. Together with Mr Groot, I am tabling a motion on tax simplification in social housing by abolishing corporate taxation for housing corporations in the so-called SGEI document (services of general economic interest). This is very easy to implement, because there is already a division between social rental on the one hand and other activities on the other. This motion will follow in Mr Groot's speech. Mr Omtzigt, on my behalf, has distributed an amendment to increase the addition of electric cars to 11%, as part of the reduction in the environmental reduction. I'm rounding up. As I said before, I do not have a senate group. So I don't have the illusion that I can easily change the Tax Plan 2017 package in the sense I want. It was already a great relief that the tax debate on the 2017 Tax Plan was much less about the Senate. I thought that was a terrible disaster last year. Nevertheless, my intentions have always been sincere. I will support the core of the tax package, as proposed by the government, apart from that ridiculous loading pile story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u198	Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of changes. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if we could really solve the problem with those time clamps. If that could be done on 1 February and the amendment could be amended to that effect, I think that is a very good thing. It is also good to hear that the Secretary of State is firm with regard to the BOR, the company succession scheme. I cannot see why the continuity of the financing of family businesses would be compromised by this repair. I can see that there are opportunities for new forms of avoidance of the Succession Act. I disagreed with the Secretary of State on one point, and I support Mr Bashir. According to the Secretary of State, a zero rate would have nothing to do with a tax haven. But a zero rate was one of the criteria used by the OECD. It is also implicitly the rational behind a switch-over clause, as the European Union sees fit for the participation exemption. Its aim is also to encourage good tax governance in other countries. I fully endorse Mrs De Vries' comments on monuments and education. We were also very unhappy with the letter sent by the Minister on this issue. As far as we are concerned, the system of training and monuments is once again under discussion. It needs to be looked at in its entirety. We are going to have that discussion next year, and we are taking ample time to do so. I'd like to file three motions. The first concerns an undertaking already made by the Secretary of State, but I would like it to be made more precise. That motion may then be called superfluous, but I want it recorded in the Acts. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas transfer tax on the sale of social housing below the liberalisation limit between housing corporations is undesirable and ineffective, as previously stated in the Van Vliet motion;]] [[whereas the separation between SGEI and non-DAEB activities should also be reflected in the corporate tax obligation;]] [[Calls on the Government to develop and report to the Chamber options to exempt housing corporations from transfer tax and corporate tax for their SGEI activities by March 2017 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groot and Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u199	This motion was indeed co-signed by Mr Van Vliet, former chairman of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into housing corporations. I also announced a motion on combating tax avoidance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Anti-Tax Prevention Directive (ATAD) contains rules on controlled foreign companies (the so-called CFCs);]] [[Whereas these rules are intended to prevent the erosion and relocation of profits to tax havens;]] [[Whereas these rules should be transposed into national law;]] [[Whereas the Directive provides Member States with two options for determining which income from a CFC should be included in the taxable person's base in the European Member State;]] [[Whereas Model A (Article 7 (2) (a) ATAD) is highly effective in combating base erosion and artificial profit displacement;]] [[Whereas Model B (Article 7 (2) (b) ATAD) does not add much to existing transfer pricing rules;]] [[calls on the Government to include a variant of model A in the Dutch legislation when implementing the CFC rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u200	This is a very complicated motion, but it is a very important one. The last motion is also very important. I will present her with Mr Omtzigt. We have raised the issue of so-called loan assistance for many years. It is important that we look at how we can compensate people affected by this problem and have been in the cold for years. The Secretary of State has already shown some willingness, but we want to strengthen this by means of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that people whose loan assistance has been converted into a gift before 1 January 2017 have been unduly affected by having to repay surcharges;]] [[noting that some of them have fallen into debt as a result of this, while they have regained sufficient income;]] [[calls on the Government to find a tailor-made solution for this group whereby debts that are not due to them are waived at the request of those concerned;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the matter before 31 December,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Groot and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u201	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. There is an amendment from my hand not to reduce the working discount and to finance it through greening. That amendment has been dissuaded. I was not surprised, but not less disappointed. We're gonna see it at the votes. I also took part in Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment on plant protection and the innovation box. I thank him for that. I must confess that there will be another D66 amendment and the SP amendment. That amendment is not yet in place; it is not due to support but only to myself. That amendment will not bring about the reduction of wine excise duties, but the change in the system which the Secretary of State wants, but not the reduction in the rate that goes with it. We want to use the expected EUR 10 million that this should bring to bear to dampen this cabinet's cultural cuts. Discussions on culture will take place in the Chamber next Monday. For us, this is one of the sources of coverage to stop the balding in culture. We want to use the money released to give parties in the performing arts, film and media, the visual arts and talent development, such as the Metropolitan Orchestra, the Literature Museum, the Maastheater and so on, a little support. We believe that this can be done by reducing the rates on champagne. I can reassure Mr Groot by saying that this will also apply to prosecco. Before I table my four motions, I would like to make a comment on the need for further work. A letter from the SZW Secretary of State will be sent in the first quarter. I regret that a question I have been asking since the first day of the legislative consultation is not yet the beginning of an answer. That deprives me of the opportunity to take action on this by means of a motion or amendment. I think that's unfortunate. I'm waiting for that letter, and I'm assuming that doesn't take forever. Mr Grashoff will be tabling another motion on the home loaders shortly. We know that this is a very complex dossier, but we want to prevent it from stopping here, and this motion is perhaps a concrete and an incentive to the Secretary of State's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u202	Let's move on to the motions, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u203	I'm filing four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effective tax on profits for companies is showing a declining trend in the European Union;]] [[Whereas the pressure on corporate tax rates may be increased by the European arrangements on the tax base;]] [[Whereas Member States have a shared interest in preventing a race to the bottom at corporate tax rates;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to investigate the possible design and political feasibility of a European minimum corporate tax rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u204	I think we really need to do something about the office premises, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the transformation of office premises is one of the objectives of the Cabinet;]] [[noting that the history of a property now determines the tax treatment of a property and its sale;]] [[considers that there should be a level playing field for buildings delivered in the same status;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how obstacles to the transformation of office premises in taxation can be removed and to inform the Court of Justice of this by 1 February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u205	I would like to make two further motions on monuments and education. The cabinet seems to continue with what it's doing. The Minister's letter was really shot in the wrong throat there. For us, thinking is fine, but without the pressure of time and without the knife on the throat of austerity. We do not allow ourselves to be blackmailed by the argument that there should be savings on education or other monuments. Let me say this: we expressly do not want that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Law on Tax Measures has been retained by the government, although the government intends to continue along the path taken;]] [[Whereas consideration of an alternative system for national monuments and training should not be entrusted with a mission or a decision already taken by the Cabinet to convert the scheme into an expenditure scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the Tax Measures Act on State Monuments and Training,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Schouten, Mr Krol and Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u206	I hope, of course, that this motion will succeed, but at least we would like to ensure that this austerity is a real goal in itself. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Law on Tax Measures has been adopted on State Monuments and Training;]] [[noting that a reduction in the provision of monuments endangers the maintenance and preservation of Dutch cultural heritage;]] [[noting that a reduction in education does not fit in with the aim of providing lifelong learning for all;]] [[Whereas support for the training and maintenance of national monuments may be more effective;]] [[calls on the government to engage with field parties in order to improve the design of financial support for the maintenance of state monuments and for training where possible, without taking a cut as a starting point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Schouten, Mr Bashir, Mr Krol and Mr Grashoff.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u207	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers and for all the hard work that has been done in recent days. A lot of things are clear, and yet I have a number of outstanding points in this second term. I am somewhat shocked by the Secretary of State's reply on whether or not a notarial act is needed. We are talking about the self-employed pension. I can go a long way with his arguments. The text I spoke yesterday saw the deviation from the standard distribution. That is the buy-back or conversion of the pension into its own management. The Secretary of State describes that the purpose of the notary's intervention is to protect the partner. Of course, I totally agree with that. This is also important, because without compensation, the partner loses 73% of the pension. But then the Secretary of State writes something strange: by completing the form of the Tax Administration, the partner is aware that he must be informed about the advantages and disadvantages. I think every divorce attorney will cut this line of reasoning. And then there's a good chance that the partner, then the ex-partner, will be able to impose retroactive compensation on the judge. Is that what the Secretary of State wants with this law? The Secretary of State also admits that a form from the Tax Administration does not have the same legal force as a notarial act. On the dga with an indefinite part at an external insurer, the State Secretary writes that the dga itself must decide whether to transfer the external part until 31 March 2017. Continuation of the insured part would be contrary to the objective of the legislative proposal. According to the Secretary of State, there is no conflict with property law, but these dgas are forced to leave all the money with the insurer, while the intention was to get the money back to the e.g. A dga does not want to miss huge amounts and pensions by premature termination of the agreement with the insurer. He does not therefore have the choice to buy this part of the pension on his own initiative or to convert it into his own management. As I indicated in my first term, it is a significant proportion of self-employed DGAs. I realize that we are already close to the votes, but I will table an amendment on this as soon as possible. It's very simple, people who have a guarantee contract, who just agreed on 4% return. If you have to break that off a few years before you retire, you're gonna miss the guarantee. You can see it as an option or, so I say to Mr Bashir, as a form of a derivative derivative that you got when you entered into the contract, because you have to buy off from the State earlier. Even in the amendment I am considering, you are missing the guarantee of future investment, because it will be stopped. But you don't just come out under the guarantee of the deposit you've already committed, with a target capital. Otherwise it would be a very nice bill for the insurers. I have heard the reply of the Secretary of State to my amendment on the time clamps. I will amend the entry into force of the amendment in such a way that it will enter into force on 1 March or 1 April, depending on what the Secretary of State thinks is reasonable, but at the same time the Secretary of State will have the emergency brake to prevent the entry into force of a Royal Decree with a veil. We will come back to this, but if there are any serious objections, we'd like to hear it. I cannot imagine that, by the way, because we are not changing anything in contract law; we are only adjusting taxation. I would just like to respond to Mr De Vries' comments on my amendment to the company succession scheme. As far as the Court can ascertain, that particular case did not arise before the judgment. The amendment therefore does not extend anything at all. For the continuity of the family business, the CDA considers it important that a company should not be forced to sell all kinds of small equity interests, for example in suppliers or customers, by death or by donation and subsequent succession. This will not directly affect a company, but it will hinder its efficient operation, for example because you want to acquire a tactical interest. Moreover, the amendment is good for SME financing, as it does not require family businesses to temporarily retain surplus cash. For plant protection, the rescue seems to be near. I hope that the amendment can count on a majority in the Chamber. I can see it coming out slowly. However, I cannot see whether there is any more innovation involving micro-organisms or other natural innovation, which will be excluded from the innovation box as of 1 January 2017. That is why, together with Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that innovation using micro-organisms or similar biological or natural innovation cannot be patented;]] [[noting that these forms of innovation therefore no longer have access to the innovation box following the adoption of the 2017 Tax Plan;]] [[Whereas this leads to unfair competition between "natural innovation" and "chemical innovation";]] [[noting that this is contrary to the policy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the European Commission whether natural forms of innovation, such as micro-organisms-based innovation, can have access to the innovation box in accordance with Action Line 5 of the BEPS project and to inform the Court before 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u208	I still have a few smaller points. I await with great interest at the end of the year how the rulings are going, how many there are and how they are exchanged. I would like to hear as soon as possible which cars have been tampered with with CO and how that will be recovered. This means a lawsuit by the State against, for example, the Volkswagen/Audi regime or perhaps a fairly large settlement. I have missed the answer to the question when we will get an answer to what happens to the objections that have not been resolved in accordance with the Awb. If the Secretary of State can send that to the Chamber for next Thursday's discussion, we can involve it in that. I have made a very compelling appeal to send the e-mails about the RVU fine with the warnings, which must have been around the Ministry for almost a year, to the Chamber within five weeks. I'm assuming that's what's happening. I await with great interest the letter from the Minister of OCW. I shall look very favourably at Mr Van Weyenberg's motions. In this way making legislation is really... Well, let me put it this way: the Minister of OCW can take an example of the thoroughness with which a tax plan is being prepared. I have to say it positively, so people around me say. The thoroughness with which the Tax Plan has been prepared and dealt with is exemplary in comparison to what happens at the monument deduction. I used some pretty harsh words for that. It may well be the desired direction, but there are major implementation problems when dealing with legislation in this way. I expect to hear what the government thinks of that. I am waiting for the VAT on pension funds, but as soon as the Supreme Court has ruled, I would also like to know why it is possible to do so in Belgium and Luxembourg and not here, and why we are pushing pension funds across the border. Then no EUR 365 million has been won at all. I very much supported the large motion on loan assistance. It's not just about people who got into the Wsnp, it's about all the people who have to pay back unjustly. Thank you for the concept of ministerial settlement. We will examine them before we come back to them. I can't really tell if this is exactly what we wanted. The arrangement was too late for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u209	Do you have another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u210	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The very last motion. It's actually for the new cabinet. That motion must be on the formatter's table. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the highest marginal rate of income tax in the Netherlands is 56% and considers that it is high;]] [[noting, for example, that the earner is faced with an average marginal rate of more than 70% if he earns about a modal income and with an even higher percentage if he receives rent payment;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the marginal pressures resulting from income tax and surcharges above 56% and to indicate how marginal pressures can be reduced to a maximum of 56%;]] [[Invites the Government to report to the Chamber on this matter before 15 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u211	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, unfortunately, I was absent because of illness. I hope that the President will show some coulance in my speaking time. I won't overdo it. First of all, I come to the issue of inequality. Let us say again that during this cabinet period income disparities have increased and not decreased, despite the promise of fair sharing. There is a very simple and clear amendment, which I tabled together with Mr Bashir, which would actually correct without all kinds of terrible side effects and undesirable side effects. I therefore appeal to those parties for whom fair sharing is important to support that amendment, thereby sending a clear signal to actually change something about the Netherlands. With this Tax Plan, the opportunity to green up seems to have been missed again. The Secretary of State also advises against the amendment on the energy tax on large-scale consumption. If I were to respond to the Secretary of State by looking very closely at what was in last year's letter and to adjust the numbers to it and therefore leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber, then I will do so and there will be a modified amendment very quickly. But I somehow suspect that it doesn't matter to the Secretary of State and the verdict remains "dissuade." This reflects the attitude of the cabinet in the field of greening, but we will have to deal with it. I have tabled an amendment on auxiliary boilers. This could very simply lead to a real blow in the reduction of gas consumption, or at least prevent the possible bankruptcy of converted installations in the meantime. If I count correctly, I'll come up with no more than $3 million cover. The Secretary of State was going to go into that. I would ask the Secretary of State and colleagues to embrace the amendment and accept it in the Chamber. This is a short, fast and good stroke for the heat supply of gas to other sustainable fuels. It would be such a shame if we block that and frustrate part of it. That won't be necessary. That 3 million was really calculated behind the decimal point. We can cover it by a mini-mini-minimum increase in energy tax rates. If there is any objection to this from colleagues in this Chamber, I would also like to look at another cover, but please let us do it. If the amendment were to be discouraged, I would have a motion that might mean something. I will also table two motions on tax avoidance. I would like to make one more comment on education and monuments. It is very sad how this discussion has ended here. I believe that the cabinet has chosen a wrong approach, in particular by the Minister of Education. That's too bad. My group remains in favour of removing it from taxation, on the one hand, because of the simplification of the tax system, on the other, because it can do better with a well-integrated subsidy mechanism. However, the starting point must not be the austerity objective. That is why I co-signed Mr Van Weyenberg's motion. I'm going to read out the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u212	How many do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u213	I've got four. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many companies are established in the Netherlands without significant real economic activity, letterboxes, e.g., which are frequently used to avoid tax;]] [[Whereas setting minimum requirements for the level of real economic activity in the Netherlands, the so-called "substance requirements," can make a meaningful contribution to reducing the existence of such companies and to their tax avoidance practices;]] [[Whereas in its letter of 4 November 2016, the Secretary of State for Finance outlined a number of options for this purpose at the request of the Chamber;]] [[Calls on the Government to elaborate the above options 1, 2 and 3 in the above letter in policy proposals and to inform the Chamber before 1 February;]] [[calls on the Government also to consider combinations of these options and to develop them as a matter of priority:]] [[a pay-off criterion so that companies that do not have sufficient labour costs to carry out real activities will in any case be penalised;]] [[delete the criterion of EUR 2 million of own funds in Article 8c of the 1969 Corporate Tax Act, so that at least 1% of outstanding money loans become the criterion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that obtaining an S&D certificate requires only that research is innovative for the company;]] [[noting that Kansrijk's innovation policy, the publication of the Central Planning Bureau, indicates that this limited requirement limits the social return of such expenditure and can be improved by tightening those requirements;]] [[Whereas such strengthening would boost efficiency and innovation while limiting the use of the innovation box as a tax avoidance instrument;]] [[whereas the S&D declaration is now mandatory as a means of accessing the innovation box and it is therefore a good time to reconsider this requirement;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen the requirement for a S&D declaration so that an innovation is at least "new to the Netherlands', and not just for the company,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-64]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u214	Fortunately, the motions are getting shorter and shorter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still a high rate of charge for charging electric cars at a home charging post;]] [[Whereas it is also desirable for this group to encourage electric driving by charging;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether such an incentive is possible for the home loader group without unintentional side effects, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u215	We will, of course, inform the Secretary of State who he can at least consult, namely the Dutch Association for Renewable Energy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that district heating is now being discouraged from becoming sustainable due to an increase in energy taxation after the switch-over;]] [[Whereas the energy tax should not be an obstacle to the reduction of CO emissions;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that district heating in the event of a switch from gas-fired boilers to the use of renewable sources does not face an increase in energy taxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34552-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u216	Mr. Chairman. This treatment of the Tax Plan was for my group to do justice to those who are disproportionately affected by our current tax system. I am thinking of extreme marginal pressure for some groups and the large difference in tax burden between different groups. I have mentioned the example of households with a gross income of €35,000, sometimes with differences up to a factor of 177.5. We have been discussing these issues for many years. This time I have looked sincerely for an amendment that reduces this injustice and also fits in with the repertoire of D66 and VVD. The arguments for such a good amendment have just been mentioned by the Secretary of State himself: reducing the gap between one and two earners, promoting employment and reducing the marginal pressure where it is so high: a win-win-win situation. There is a great deal in my mind to see if we can take a step in this respect. I am well aware that this is also an ideologically loaded discussion, but please let us also look at the facts this time. I would like to ask colleagues: look at the facts and weigh them when you have to vote on this amendment. I really want to see whether we may have to make adjustments to the measure, the phasing-out or the year of entry. I'm really willing to do some more tightening, if that's necessary, to meet the cabinet as well. I really hope that the Secretary of State will look with me for the possibilities that exist, so that we can really make a move here. I come to the monuments and education deductions. The primary aim of course was simply to close the gap in the education budget. During the legislative consultation, the Chamber steered a careful discussion, also because this is going to affect a lot of people. The Minister for Education has again crossed this Chamber's gesture with the letter she sent last week. We were in favour of enforcing the laws and having a careful discussion, but if the cabinet is going to deal with the Chamber in this way again, then it is time for us to point out that we may just have to repeal the law. That is why I have tabled Mr Van Weyenberg's motion. I would also like to make it clear that, in his second motion, Mr President, this debate must be conducted from the point of view of content and not from the point of view of austerity. That is why we have also signed the motion not to turn this into a debate on austerity. In addition, it was also a show with the cash slides. We've had enough debate on it. I would like to say that this has somewhat affected the credibility of the Secretary of State. After all, we are precisely looking at how we can carefully budget. We are also engaged in carefully difficult discussions to cover certain items within the budget. In order to deal with a budget problem in this way, I did not think that I deserve the beauty prize; then I express myself very economically. I have tabled another amendment, namely the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 44 on the landlord's tax at zero-on-the-meter houses. The biggest challenge lies in achieving energy savings in the built environment. There is, indeed, something already being done, but not enough, as is evident from all the reports that come out of Economic Affairs. That is where the challenge lies, and this amendment looks forward to giving it an extra boost. I also have with Mr Omtzig the amendment to item No. 12 on the follow-up scheme. Our call would be: don't leave the family businesses in the cold. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and his officials. We do not know whether this is the last tax plan of this State Secretary and I do not know whether this will be my last tax plan. However, I can look back on the cooperation. Although I have criticised the fact that under the leadership of this Secretary of State, the gap between the one and the two earners has widened and the marginal pressure has also increased, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the way in which we have worked together. I've always experienced that as an honest way of discussing things. This Secretary of State is sensitive to facts and dares not only to look ideologically, but also to look at what is happening and what it does to people in the country. I thank him for his honesty and sometimes even for his self-reflection. At least I liked the fact that we were able to do this. I hope, of course, that we can do the same with the amendment we have just spoken about. But we'll hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u217	Thank you, Mrs Schouten. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u218	Madam President. For us too, what Mrs Schouten just mentioned so clearly was the marginal pressure debate and the gap, the most important point. I would like to underline what Mrs Schouten said about her amendment. I think it would be special if this amendment were to be wiped out by the coalition with this reasoning. I really don't see "Waste." That doesn't suit Mrs Schouten and it doesn't fit the SGP. I know 'judge chamber' and I know 'dissuade', but the predicate 'desert' is new, and that deserves at least support. However, it would have been a good thing for me if there had been proposals in the Tax Plan to close the gap alongside Mrs Schouten's amendment. We know the battle; it seems that this cabinet does not succeed. For us, however, it is crucial, even when it comes to our position on the whole Tax Plan, how seriously the research of SZW is being undertaken. I would also like to hear the Secretary of State on this subject in the second term. I am concerned about two things. The first is the timing. Mr Omtzigt has just tabled a motion calling for 15 March. I'd rather have it in January 2017. This will give us the opportunity to ask any questions about, for example, things that have not been selected and to possibly have an exchange of views with this cabinet. Well, that'll be quite technical, but that's fine. That could lead to a follow-up. Is it possible to do that in January? A second element is the following. It is good to identify which groups it affects, but in fact we know most of it. It's really about mapping options. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State on that. How could you fix this? How could you fix it? This is an essential point for us, but that may be clear. I have two more points. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his constructive attitude to the amendment No. 50 on biological plant protection. All this seems to go well, although there is still some discussion behind the scenes about the precise legal wording. The specialists in this area of the Legislation Office, which may well be mentioned at some point, as well as those in the amendment service of the Ministry of Finance, have done a good job again, but they still have to do some good work to get it all done by tomorrow. Thank you for that commitment, too. The motion-Omtzigt I signed with you. I see this in the context of a broader debate on natural innovation. We must prevent chemical innovation from being favoured and naturally not. So this is a little wider than just the motion. I therefore hope that the motion will receive broad support. Finally, I would like to refer to the deduction of monuments and the deduction of training. I agree with my fellow Members, who have used rather strong words on this issue. I've got the Van Weyenberg c.s. motion. in piece No. 61, requesting consultation with the field, co-signed. For Mr Van Weyenberg's second motion, I do feel a lot, because when the trial goes this way, you better stop. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State, also for the spicy discussions we have had. As Mrs Schouten said, they were always fair. This sometimes goes wrong in politics, but this Secretary of State certainly does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u219	We have thus reached the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that he must first find out the answer to the number of questions. I therefore propose that we suspend until 7.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u220	We will continue with the Tax Plan 2017 and the Exchange of Information on rulings Act. The room is now full of colleagues. Mr Omtzigt stated a few years ago in the Tax Plan that there were two people in the gallery, but the number could increase. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u221	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to comment on the motions and then on the new amendments tabled after the beginning of the debate. Then I would like to address some of the remaining questions, as far as they have not yet been dealt with in the amendments. I'll start with the motion in part No. 51 by Mrs De Vries to bring forward the evaluation of the cost of work one year. I have so far shown a little intransigence in this respect, but I will give in to this motion. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 53 of Mr Bashir and Mr Grashoff to monitor the flight of capital intensively. It depends a little on what "intensive monitoring" is. Intensive monitoring is not possible in the sense that we can see which euro goes where. Responding quickly to signals and doing something with them is the standard policy. I do not see Mr Bashir anywhere, but Mr Grashoff does. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that we are open to signals and do something with them if necessary, then I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u222	I am so bold to find this reasonable interpretation on behalf of Mr Bashir, with whom I have not been able to consult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u223	Then I think this is a reasonable motion and leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Van Vliet's 54 amendments are consistent with his amendment No. 52. I must admit to him that the amendment is well covered; I really want to have said that. What he is offering me here, to my pleasure, is a system review. That's really something for a government agreement. Because of precisely these considerations, I advise against the motion, because there are always some further considerations, for example a purchasing power check. I very much like the initiative and the strength of action, so I encourage everyone to do so in a subsequent formation of this magnitude. The motion in part No. 55 of the members Groot and Van Vliet deal with the exemption of housing corporations from transfer tax and corporation tax when selling social housing. The Government is invited to develop options by March 2017. I already promised. You could say that the motion is unnecessary, but that is also so unfriendly. Why wouldn't I take over the motion? The cabinet's just gonna do this inventory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u224	For the sake of completeness: the motion in part No. So 55 has been taken over?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u225	Taken over, unless one of the attendees objects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u226	But everyone stays calm, so the motion has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u227	Only calm saves us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u228	The Great/Van Vliet motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u229	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 56 by Mr Groot on the CFCs. The cabinet has the serious intention of actually tackling abuse, but it is not yet entirely clear whether this means further deepening model A or model B. The choice must be made in the further legislative process. After the summer of 2017, there will be a consultation. I do not want to anticipate that and therefore advise against the motion. The motion in part No. Mr Groot and Mr Omtzigt spoke about a tailor-made solution. I've promised to take another serious look at this. I can't guarantee that's gonna work. The motion calls on the government to find a "suitable solution" for this group. If it had said "search," I could imagine something else. But I just can't commit to this, because I don't want to raise expectations that I might not be able to live up to. That's why I need the motion in part No. 57 in this form. The motion in part No. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Groot spoke about minimum rates. The main point of the cabinet's view is that it is a violation of sovereignty. The fixing of tariffs is up to the countries themselves. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u230	As in the motion in part No. 57 the word "find" is replaced by, for example, "intensive searching"...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u231	No, "seek and thou shalt find"!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u232	...does that help?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u233	I believe that I am now going through the discussion between the motion-holders. "Search" I have just promised, but in "find" I have a slightly harder head than the proposers themselves. I want to convince them of my serious intentions, but I can't do the impossible. In this form, I advise against the motion in part No. That's 57. If the motion is tabled in a different form, I have already made a commitment and I can therefore leave the motion to the judgement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u234	If the search happens anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u235	Yes, Mr Groot already has. So that's free!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u236	I'll still file the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u237	I get it, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u238	Mr. Groot, you're going to change your motion, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u239	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u240	No, he already got the search for it for free, so why would he file another motion for it? I understand Mr. Groot. He's an economist. You don't have to buy free items anymore. I just said something about the motion in part No. 58 on minimum rates. The motion in part No. 59 of Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Koolmees deal with office premises. This has been carefully looked at in a number of areas. I do not want to raise expectations here either. The solutions are not always solutions and cost a lot of money. After the extensive search we've been through with each other during this tax-plan trajectory, I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 60 is requested to withdraw the draft tax measures national monuments and training. That motion was signed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mrs Schouten, Mr Krol and Mr Bashir. The Minister of OCW will send a letter on this matter before the votes. The vote will take place tomorrow, because then the votes will be taken. Same for the motion in part No. 61. In this motion, the government is asked to "converse with field parties" et cetera et cetera, "without any cuts being taken as a starting point." This motion was signed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mrs Schouten, Mr Bashir, Mr Krol and Mr Grashoff. I say the same thing: there will be a letter for the votes. The motion in part No. 62 by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf deal with the natural forms of innovation. That is just the follow-up to the amendment. I understand that step, but I don't know what's going on in us with all these deadlines. The motion states "before 1 January 2017." Does that give time for a serious discussion with the Commission? Every petitioner knows that's not gonna work. I would like to talk to the Commissioner about this at the Christmas party, but let us keep it realistic. If I get a realistic date, I'll leave this motion to the House's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u241	I would appreciate it if the Secretary of State mentioned a realistic date, because that would allow us to adapt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u242	April 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u243	No, April 2nd!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u244	April 2nd, otherwise someone is afraid of a joke being pulled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u245	I never joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u246	I know. The Secretary of State may also take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u247	I'll leave the motion to the Court's judgment. There may be some Members who do not think this motion is useful. I'll leave that to the Chamber. I take over when I really feel like everybody's cheering. That might well be the case with this motion, but I'm not sure. In the motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt's 64 on marginal pressure invites the government "to report to the Chamber on this before 15 March 2017.' In my view, this is exactly the commitment made in the SZW study. I think the date is also acceptable. That is why I shall leave the motion to the House's judgment. This is a disappointment to Mr Dijkgraaf, who would have preferred it in January, but then it will be a bit of a rush. In his direction, I will say that there will be policy options. That is explicitly the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u248	I understand that the Secretary of State is going to do it in such a way that we are not talking exclusively about the cost-winning families.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u249	No, no, no. Here's the insert marginal pressure. I have said before that we distinguish different groups. It's not gonna be a earner's report. Otherwise there would be absolutely no support for Mr Van Weyenberg, and that would also be sad. The motion in part No. 64 by Mr Grashoff and Mr Groot contain a substance call. I explained in the letter why, in my view, the route through further substance requirements is not the right one at all. In order to produce some sort of elaborate proposals for this at that time... I think the appeal of the two gentlemen is understandable from an electoral point of view, but I think they also know that we do not have a parliamentary coat before 15 March. So it also has something of symbolism. I let everyone think what they want, but my judgment is dissuaded. The judgment on the Grashoff/Bashir motion on item No. 65 on a more efficient innovation box and so on, I leave it to the Chamber, including after consultation with EZ. It has far-reaching consequences for the innovative activities in the Netherlands but also for the location climate. Therefore, the motion should be discouraged, also given the appearance that this would have for the Wbso, a very successful instrument. Then I come to the Grashoff/Van Weyenberg motion on part No. 66, about homeloaders. That has been looked at quite extensively in this process. I must discourage the motion for that reason. I don't see much music in that. The motion in part No. Mr Grashoff's 67 is the motion behind the amendment, if I may put it that way. The motion isn't very calm either. I had hoped that we would agree that this is a very interesting idea to investigate. I've promised you that before. But it says here immediately 'take action', which in essence is not much different than an amendment. I think that the question or question is also explicitly addressed in the investigation. So I must discourage the motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u250	I see Mr Grashoff. I think with a response to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u251	What does the Secretary of State mean by the or question? I believe that the fact that it is now working out in this way for district heating plants is a fact. Then what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u252	We have three types of installations, two of which deal with residual heat consumption and one purely with durability. That is what Mr Grashoff called an inconsistency. I said: it is in itself a result of a choice of the scheme, but you should also make that choice differently, and let us examine whether it is wise to make that choice differently and to set up a scheme for residual heat as a sustainable energy scheme in future. So the question is whether you want to compensate for this in that way. That's what it's meant to be. The motion is also the backdrop of the amendment, and I would like to add the question or question. Not with the phenomenon, but with the desirability of aligning this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u253	Now I must be careful not to repeat the debate on the basis of the motion. I'm a little disappointed with the answer, though. In fact, I thought that we had passed the or-questions and that the Secretary of State had moved with me in any case that it is somewhat absurd to place residual heat in a more advantageous position than renewable heat. Nor have I heard him give any substantive argument for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u254	I didn't get that far. I have just said that we need to look at the arrangements for which type of energy interacts exactly. I did not say that one deserves more encouragement than the other. I have said that the cabinet wants to be open, curious and fresh in its eyes to see what is going on, how it is going to work out and what the consequences are of extending the scheme to renewable energy. That's the question or question, but with a positive approach. I've offered to look at it in all sincerity, with open sights. However, I think it goes too far to say that measures must also be taken. There's the question or question. The Aukje de Vries amendment in part No. 48 looks sympathetic and involves a share option right for start-ups. The cover is not really contained in the amendment, but let me deal with the substance of the proposal. In the whole process of thinking about start-ups it is to some extent an old acquaintance. The verdict is that it's a little more complicated than it looks. First of all, it looks like state aid and it is only possible if the de minimis scheme can be applied. There is still a lot of water in the sea that you can ask yourself whether the implementation costs are proportionate to the measure itself. In previous evaluations, such a measure, however sympathetic, has been abandoned, and the cabinet continues to say that start-ups and the promotion of start-ups remain extremely important for the Dutch entrepreneurial environment and for job creation. I do not recommend the amendment in this form, but other measures have been taken this year to encourage start-ups. The Dijkgraaf c.s. amendment in piece No. 50 is about plant protection measures. I would like to make the point of the amendment, but I believe that Mr Dijkgraaf himself said that it was still a piece of legislation. It's gotta stop raving. I think we're working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u255	I don't know if there's gonna be another letter from the Secretary of State for the votes. Then maybe he could take it with him permanently. Otherwise, we can agree that the Ministry will check to see if the new version is all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u256	Let's not make it a big deal. In the confidence that it'll work out legally, I'll give the verdict Chamber. If it's not okay, I'll let you know in advance in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u257	That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u258	After all, it is also a bit of work in progress from time to time. Life is full of risks. We have the respect of the externally built-up pension claims on 1 January 2017. That is what Mr Omtzig is very concerned about. He has the amendment to item No. 8 on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM (88) 8 final - Doc. In my view, the amendment extends to the following. There are pensions that are partly built up in their own administration and partly externally. This is about bringing in and paying off external pensions. It is true that when purchasing an external pension, depending on the conditions, securities can lapse and that this can lead to loss of income. The other side is that the PEB proposal facilitates the purchase of the external pension to some extent over a short period of time, but it is not intended to do so. There's a certain coulance to bring that in and take it with you, but that's not meant to happen. There is no objection to external pensions. That is not at all the reason for this legislative process. If an external pension cannot be paid off on favourable terms, it simply goes on under the same conditions. There's nothing wrong with that. With the termination of the self-employed pension, we did not intend to terminate the external pension. In fact, there is nothing against external pensions at all. It can sometimes be taken from a form of coulance, but it cannot be taken from where it cannot be done. I don't see that that's a problem at all. A neatly built external pension is fantastic. I'd like to give it to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u259	I assume this means "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u260	Sorry, this was dissuaded. I come to the Schouten amendment. I didn't put up seats or benches that I see a lot in this. It's clever. It's been brought in bravely. There's nothing wrong with that. I'm getting this now, in this period of time, with a one-quarter-billion-dollar shift going nowhere. So I want to do something else. Of course, making a tax plan starts in spring. I want to have this on the table when thinking about a new tax plan. That does not just depend on me; many are involved. So I cannot give promises about what we are about to do here in a year's time, but I can say that I will put this explicitly on the table. It has plenty of attractive sides. This is something to consider. We owe this to Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u261	It is not often that you put your whole soul and salvation in an amendment. I have tried to do that in this amendment, because I have tried sincerely over the last few years to make it all a little more just. I appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State acknowledges that this amendment will do so. I can see that this movement is being made, but I really hope that we will be able to look at this honestly and not only from ideological considerations, however different our opinions may differ in this Chamber. I also see that the Secretary of State will not embrace it. He's probably not gonna recommend it right now. I would like to thank him for putting it on the table and looking at it seriously, but I would like to put it to the vote because I believe in it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u262	You always have that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u263	Yeah, well, I guess I'm just gonna have to dissuade it. In my short political career, Mrs Schouten thus scored at least the most beautiful unsuspected amendment. But I'll hold on to it, because the conversations start again in spring. Do I understand that an amendment has just been tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg? I need some help getting out of the fire. Who exactly filed that? It's a little hasty here. Some improvisation is not wrong, but perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg can briefly say what he has just submitted. I'll see if I can make a judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u264	This is a very special form, but it's going well. This amendment has just been tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP and myself. It is the elaboration of what I announced in my second term. We do not want to do Mr Groot's tariff reduction and prosecco. We are, however, doing the system change mentioned by the Secretary of State, but not that. This frees more than EUR 11 million a year. The SP and D66 want to use that Monday to save cultural institutions from the degradation policy that this cabinet is pursuing in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u265	In any case, I am grateful to Mr Van Weyenberg for not doing the small system improvements on this point and for doing it in a different way. But I understand better why he has not tabled this amendment together with Mr Koolmees. In fact, revenue is being increased in order to increase expenditure. This is a breach of budgetary rules. I can only advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u266	I'm not surprised. I would like to add that I am starting to think that this accusation is being made by a cabinet that has been using it to make up its entire Millions' note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u267	I come to the questions asked. I promise Mrs De Vries to return to the Chamber periodically, after one and two years, whether problems have been identified with the continuity of companies by levying inheritance or gift tax. That is about the experience with the BOR. The BOR does not change in a material sense, but I nevertheless honour Mrs De Vries' concerns by making her this commitment. I believe that another amendment has been tabled on the time clamps. Perhaps Mr Groot and Mr Omtzig will be able to help me out. We would come back to the time clamps, because something would be changed at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u268	I'll take a look at both gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u269	Both gentlemen are busy communicating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u270	We have not yet tabled an amended amendment on the time clamps, but the intention is to change the date of 1 January to a date chosen by the Secretary of State, e.g. 1 February or 1 March. The amendment then states that the Secretary of State with a Royal Decree (KB) has the possibility not to allow the amendment to enter if there are major problems arising from the execution test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u271	Can we do that a little bit less, too? I am prepared to judge Chamber on something that seems to be a little more common, namely entry into force at KB. That's the trick I came up with to meet the proposers. Mr Omtzigt makes this a bit tighter. I ask him to do it with a slightly milder variant in exchange for judgment Chamber. I hope we can agree on that. I do not see much reason for the reverse, because, having heard this Chamber, I want to go ahead with it in a positive way. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u272	I do wonder when it will go in, if there are no objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u273	Well, as soon as we know there are no objections. I have just expressed some urgency. The wishes of the Chamber in this area are clear. I'll take it on board and the Chamber will hear about it as soon as possible. That will be somewhere in the first quarter of 2017. It may also be earlier, for example in the first or second half, but I do not know yet. I suggest we do that by KB. Once I'm out, I'll report it, so we can push it through and get it running.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u274	Mr Omzigt, will you amend the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u275	It's a slightly calmer variant, but I'd be happy to. Then I will also give the amendment judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u276	I need to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u277	I assume that it will then be amended before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u278	Mr Grashoff asked about the budgetary implications of the residual heat proposal. That is precisely what we are looking at in order to find out about it. It's just not very well known. In a single project with 25,000 housing equivalents, that could be 3 million, but that number too is not so hard. Then you don't know exactly which current projects are covered. So that's part of this investigation. To Mr Grashoff's question how hard these figures are, I answer: he has a point there, because they are not so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u279	This is how it gets very complicated to do your job as a Member of Parliament. That information could just be available. As far as I know, there is an installation that is now covered; I do not know exactly how many housing equivalents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u280	You may mean Purmerend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u281	Yes. So that is de facto the loss if you reverse it now, because those are already booked, estimated tax revenues. The rest is future music. It could not have been estimated by the Secretary of State, because that is the estimation of a plus in tax revenue and not loss. Then these transitions will not take place either; that is also logical, because they are blocked by the current tax regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u282	That's not how it works. The estimate of income tax includes the income tax of people who do not yet have a job. It is not the case that we estimate only on the basis of the current insiders, because then tax revenues would show a constantly falling trend. That's not how it works. I have just said that I am going to look seriously at this with a positive mind, and that is what these estimates are all about. Sometimes research is needed to find out something and to gain insight into something, to give the Chamber the opportunity to make a sound decision. I think that the order is also good: first mapping, then the form of opinion. In fact, in the field of OCW, I have just learned from several spokesmen that that is exactly the order they want; I would like to keep it here as well. I don't know some things yet. Mr Grashoff can blame me for that, but that is no different. Not everything is known about this. I'm gonna find out and then I'm gonna come back to the room. Then we know everything and we can talk about it. This order would really be my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u283	When will the Secretary of State come back with his investigation and will he be willing to make a bet with me on the loss of that tax revenue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u284	I find it complicated to make a bet if I have no opinion of it myself. That's why I want it sorted out. If I had a view on it, I'd like to bet, but that's exactly my point! Mr Grashoff also asked when the investigation was due. That's a very good question. I see one of my officials sticking two fingers up. If anyone knows secret language...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u285	I hear two days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u286	I understand now that the second quarter is meant. Had we hoped for days, now it will be quarters. Bon. Then there is Mr Omtzigt's PEB question. The VPS Act applies only to the moment of separation. If you're going to divorce and have to make a division for that, then this law describes what you need for that. It seems, however, that Mr Omtzigt says the following: I am trying to understand Mr Omtzigt's concerns better: if a division is still made before the divorce, during the normal marriage period, then that is through that form from the Tax Office, but without the notary. In this way, it seems that Mr Omtzigt states that, if there is then a separation in one period or another, that division can still be called into question. Well, I wouldn't know very well why. It's okay. The parties can say: in that period of marriage we want to apply a different division and we take on a notary. There's nothing against that, but I don't know if we should complicate this now. Do we have to make a big source of notaries for this now? I don't know if we should do that now. A form is a means of proof that captures things. It's not a notarial deed. I fully agree with Mr Omtzig. But if the married people want that security, they are free to do so during the split-up of the pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u287	In the event of a divorce, the law vps must be followed directly and that notary is still involved. If you haven't done that in advance, that's the point. It seems that this has not been taken into account in the preparation of the legislative proposal, and this could lead to major problems with divorced DGAs in three years' time, or when the deadline is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u288	It is true: if the dga and his wife divorce, that law applies and then there are certain obligations. But it would go too far to say that it should be recorded in the same way throughout that marriage period. Surely the parties are free to decide how to conclude a civil agreement with each other within a marriage? I do not know whether we should now be subject to a notarial obligation in this Chamber. It's different when you're divorced. There's a law for that. But do we have to do that here now? At the clamp, there was something like that. At some point, people are also responsible for the civil-law agreements they make with their neighbours or with their suppliers. That's what's happening here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u289	At times like this, almost every distribution made during the marriage period is once again contested, and especially when it comes to a form from the Tax Administration that takes into account complex claims. I am afraid that, by not getting it right in advance, we will have a problem with all these divorces in the future in this regard. I do not have an immediate solution for this, either, whereby everyone is excluded. But it's really weird that we've said this all the time, and that we're now at the end of the legal process and now think this is going to cause problems? Is the Secretary of State aware of the problems caused by the VPS Act on about every pension file? We'll just get it back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u290	Mr Omtzigt's reading is: we have always recognised that there is a problem and now we are at the end and there is no solution. I don't share that lecture. There are different views on that. This is about divisions that are made during the marital period and which, according to Mr Omtzigt, may be contested some or even decades later during a possible divorce. That's the thesis. However, I do not know whether we should be calling for a visit to the notary to be made to people in a normal marriage who distribute or otherwise distribute a DGA pension. Is that what we really think?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u291	No, we don't think that's an objective. I also said in my speech that it is not an objective. But because of the complicated rules, you sometimes renounce a big claim as a partner and not everyone is equally aware of it at the time that stamp is taken. That will be discussed in greater detail the moment you're in the process of segregating the estate. Then the Wet vps will be discussed. The question is, therefore, whether the process of co-signing the partner in this law is currently sufficiently carefully regulated to avoid any fuss afterwards. I have serious doubts about that, with the VPS Act in hand. That's what I wanted to mark here. I would also like to invite the Secretary of State to vote on that law next Tuesday, if necessary, in order to re-examine that part of the process. Otherwise you will come to the conclusion in a few years' time: we have forgotten this part of the law and now there are massive claims over and over again. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u292	Whether this has anything to do with the Wet vps, I wonder. It may, of course, be the case that couples out of ignorance make unwise or very adverse arrangements for one person and find out during a divorce. I don't know if we need the VPS Act to establish that you might have done something hasty. Here's what I'm gonna do. I think that, in this case too, Mr Omtzigt may have one particular source that is extremely experienced in this particular problem. Shall we do it that way? I'm not getting the signals that you need to get a notary on this by default. Moreover, Mr Omtzigt does not say that either. I also don't have a clear idea how to improve the procedure so that the partner thinks: is all this really true? That's what you want. You want everyone knowingly and knowingly to put all the information on the table and say: this is what I want. And then a signature will do. That is what Mr Omtzigt means: that you are not fooling around. Well, during a marriage in it gardens... people garden in it by marrying. If you're getting into it during the wedding, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u293	You say this to a Christian Democrat!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u294	Yeah, that's all wrong! I've never been fooled, either. So this doesn't make any sense at all. I'm going back to the point. I think Mr Omtzigt might be able to help me by making suggestions for improving processes. I'm very much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u295	Is this how we're gonna do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u296	That's how we do it. I think that would be very useful. We all share the ambition. Mr Grashoff asked about the EIA: is it now financed by under-utilization or by the reduction in the percentage? That's almost a cover question, too. Within the coverage problem, under-exhaustment is not relevant. Under-exhaustment happens now, but tomorrow there may be a shortage; you never know. Here's what's important. If you want a larger amount of projects to be eligible for a particular pot, you have to lower the fee out of that pot. You can act opportunistically and say: there is now under-exhaustment. But there may not be any tomorrow. This is not how the coverage system works. In this case, you can arrange the coverage structurally by reducing the percentages. Perhaps now there is accidental under-exhaustment, I do not know the state of the EIA scheme either, but tomorrow it may be different. That's not a structural way of covering. So it's in the reduction in the percentage of the EIA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u297	This is another very special one. Last year, on the proposal of this Secretary of State himself and also with my warm agreement, I think that was the only point on which we agreed to increase the EIA budget by, I believe, 60 million. At that time, as far as I know, that arrangement was also slightly extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u298	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u299	It is quite possible that the increase in the budget does not appear to be appropriate to the extension of the system. Then you can do two things: you can reduce the budget or broaden the scheme. However, I find it strange when you say that there is room in the budget, but if you want to use it, you have to make the arrangement tighter again. That can't be right, can it? In that case, estimates will become a very arbitrary matter, which we in Parliament have little to say about either: 'The estimate is what it is. If you want to change something, you'll have to change the arrangement. However, if we have estimated EUR 10, 20 or perhaps EUR 30 million too much and we simply have left, then nothing can be done about it." That can't be true, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u300	The opportunism works exactly the other way around, namely when we say in an accidental momentary under-exhaustment: well, now we can broaden the basis and so on and then you can be eligible for the scheme while the percentage remains the same. But that doesn't have to be true tomorrow morning. I've indicated the methodology. This evening, I believe, I have been able, for the sixth time, to make a heartfelt remark to Mr Grashoff, which I think is a serious one. I'm making him one piece by sadness. But this is really the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u301	If there were a normal fluctuation around a particular point, I would of course agree with the Secretary of State, but the question is as follows. If you have extended an arrangement last year and you have added a budget, do you have a picture of whether there is a structural element in that under-exhaustment? That's not a crazy question, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u302	Let us not re-invent the budgetary methodology. This is how it works. However, there are cases where the budgetary methodology is even more inconvenient. Mr Van Weyenberg has just commented on the separation between revenue and expenditure. This is how it works. I can't do much about that. That's how we work here with each other. Mr Omtzigt asked a very useful question, for which he thanked, about the anticipation effects in the schemes. I said earlier that it should be technically possible, of course, to remove categories of expenditure. I cannot now assess what the desirability and the precise possibility is, but perhaps the night will bring a result. I propose that the Minister of OCW should take this aspect into account, and I hope she does not blame me in the letter she sends on this subject following my commitment. This is being considered and worked on at the moment, including by people from Finance. If you do not like the answer, you can look angry in my direction, because I am happy to take responsibility for this answer. You shouldn't blame that on my colleague. It'll be in her letter. I'm saying that right now without reaching her, so that's not so neat. However, it is useful to have that together. It is a sensible question and I will take responsibility for the answer, but it is useful to give the answer in that letter. Mr Omtzigt has asked what we are going to do with the objections that have not been addressed in the Awb's view. I have already promised to inform the Chamber prior to the AO Tax Office about this. Then we can talk about it at that time and the Chamber can possibly put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u303	Returning to tax avoidance via APV. I said that the new allocation stop will make it possible for companies to avoid tax through the allocation stop and the APV. The Secretary of State said he'd like to take a closer look at that. What can we do about that? I've got the data here and I'd like the Secretary of State to come back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u304	If I see any reason to intervene, I'll come back to that myself. I always like to be informed by people I have no contact with myself. There are a lot of eyes and ears in this room that have a lot of contacts. It is not rare to find that very useful contacts and very useful tips are. I'm gonna look at that, and if it seems useful, and if I get convinced, I'm gonna do something with it. Sometimes you get convinced and sometimes you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u305	It won't be much different from what I said in my first term, but if it doesn't turn out to be so, I'd like to know what's going on as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u306	I believe that this question has been mentioned twice in writing. That stands as the answer, but sometimes I like to be convinced that things are different. That happens regularly and then I let you know that it is different and that we are going to do something about it. I don't know in advance, because I don't have the information yet. For that, I look back at Mr Bashir. Let's not make it too big. I like the tips. Something happens with a lot of tips, but not with some. Some tips turn out to be less big than you think, others bigger. That's how life works. I'm always very grateful for the tips.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-9.u307	This brings us to the end of the treatment of the Tax Plan and the Exchange of Information Act on rulings. I know it's been another time-consuming issue. I would like to thank colleagues for all their efforts, as well as the Secretary of State and his supporters. The vote will take place tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon.
