ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u1	I see that Mrs Van Toorenburg wishes to speak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State sent a letter to the Chamber 15 minutes ago. Do you mind if we take a short reading break to make the final points for the debate? We only have to do that for 10 minutes at the most, then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u3	I'll see if the other spokesmen object. If that is not the case, I think that is certainly reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u4	I do, Mr. Chairman. It was my request in the order of business. Then it was said: we will do that tonight. And margin, when I was already on my way here, it was said: do a letter for tonight. I think this is too short, so I do object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u5	I actually asked if you would mind if I gave you ten or fifteen minutes of reading. You don't think that should happen, Mrs Helder, and you want to start right away. I would also like to hear the other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u6	I always like to read a letter. I'm looking for him on my phone, but I can't find him that fast. If you could give me a few minutes or give him a handout, Mr President, we can all take note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u7	I have no objection to suspending for ten minutes, 15 minutes. I'd like to deal with this tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u8	Let's take that ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u9	I won't object. I would add that if, after reading the letter, Mrs Helder still has the need to request a debate, for example tomorrow, that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u10	You can always do that. I'm suspending the meeting. We'll start the debate around 7.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u11	We have seven speakers tonight. We'll do the second term. I give the floor to Mrs Swinkels of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u12	Mr. Chairman. This bill is about trust in our rule of law. If the judge imposes a penalty, that penalty must also be enforced. You have to be able to rely on that. That still doesn't happen. There are still too many convicts out there. Now we have heard last weekend that a quarter of community service is not being carried out at all or at all. In the letter we have just received, the Secretary of State nuances these figures again. For me, however, it is clear that there is still room for improvement. This also gives the impression that the implementation of the penalties imposed must and can be improved. The question is, how would you realize that? The bill provides for the responsibility to shift from the Public Prosecutor to the Minister. I have already indicated in my first term that D66 is not happy with this proposal to let the Minister do it himself and thus remove that power from the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is not clear which problem this shift solves. Because where exactly are the bottlenecks? Why can't the state's attorney's office get this right on his own? Maybe he's in the crappy chain of criminal law? If we don't know that, how do we know that shift of responsibility is going to solve something? In the first term, the Minister said that there are good reasons for this shift. When I asked whether that was investigated, namely whether the Public Prosecutor's Office itself could do better, the Minister replied: I do not know. So I repeat my question. Has it been examined yet? If not, why not? How can the Chamber as a supervisory body judge whether the Minister, other than the Public Prosecutor's Office, would be able to achieve the desired improvements? I would also point out that there is no opinion from the Court of Auditors, neither from the Council of State, nor from the Court of Justice, nor even from the Public Prosecutor's Office, to solve the problem in this way. On the contrary, they also wonder whether this is a sensible shift. The track record of the Ministry of Security and Justice currently gives little reason for extending the powers of the Minister of Security and Justice. I would remind you once again that D66 has often pointed out the increased concentration of power in the Ministry of Security and Justice. That seems to us to be administrative, but also not a sensible choice in the state of law. That much has become clear in both Chambers of this Parliament. Several of my colleagues have already mentioned the distance from politics. In this context, we have referred to the commotion that arose around Volkert van der G. Recently, this commotion has grown as a result of a remark made by the Public Prosecutor and in which it qualified Van der G.'s psychic treatment as "sales talk." It really seems that politics has gotten very close to individual matters, and that is precisely what we do not want. Politics must keep away from decisions of this kind and from the enforcement of sanctions. Politics should not interfere with that. That's the D.A.'s case. D66 does not want there to be political pressure and that the political climate will determine how it will proceed with the execution of such a punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u13	I have a question about that. The execution of sentences has two elements. The first one is just taking care of it. Pietje has to go there from 1 January to 1 July. Element two is what punishment must be carried out. Do you think we should suspend the sentence? Most of the decisions concern questions such as: should that penalty be enforced? Or: Is it the right punishment? Those decisions will remain with the D.A.'s office. The transfer takes place much more in the actual organisation than in the powers. Is that something that D66 considers relevant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u14	The fear of D66 is that, in individual cases, it will be the subject of political debate in this Chamber and that the Minister will have to answer for himself here every once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u15	You yourself cited the Volkert van der G case. That doesn't change anything. It is not the case that the CJIB is going to say: these conditions must be imposed. They're just gonna organize that. It stays with the D.A.'s office. So that kind of sensitive stuff doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u16	This changes: if the minister becomes directly responsible, then the public prosecutor's buffer is no longer in the mix either. I notice that I have left the page on my table with a part of my speech on it. I'll try to get it out of my head. I mentioned the most important point. That is the distance from politics, but also from politics, and I conclude by saying that for D66 it has not become clear how useful and necessary it is to shift responsibility for the execution of sentences from the Public Prosecutor to politics. I would like to hear the Minister on that in his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u17	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that punishments that are imposed must also be served or, if it is a community service, implemented. Too often this is not the case, and unfortunately it is already a fact in the Netherlands that very few people are being tracked down, that very few people are being brought to justice, and that very few people are being sentenced. If the condemned do not serve or execute their sentence, then we really undermine the rule of law. We are discussing a few points in today's debate. First of all, I recall the broadcast of EenVandaag of 12 September. In the end, it found out that more people are abroad than before or that they are not serving their sentence in any other way. The Secretary of State has indicated that he is going to do so. We're getting all kinds of letters about that. However, it is very worrying that he said: the previous Secretary of State may have said that he could be dealt with, but those are not my terms. That scared the hell out of me. That's how he left me. I thought, this can't be happening! If a Secretary of State says he can be judged that everyone is serving his sentence, another Secretary of State should not say that they are not his words. Are they the words of this minister? Or does he think it's okay for people to take the lats and not serve their time? This is, of course, because many people in the Netherlands are no longer in custody. This also has to do with the fact that lawsuits sometimes take a very long time. Then there's pressure on the chain. As a result, judges say at some point: I am no longer sure that anyone would stay in prison for as long as the time he is already in remand. So that too is a concern. I want this cabinet to work on this and make sure that people who have to be detained also stay stuck, get a ruling quickly and then serve their sentence. It's all taking quite a while. We would like to take care of the cabinet. For example, we also want to pay the cabinet for the fact that too many community sentences are not being carried out. I remember very well that this Minister, as a Member of Parliament, had great words about this; let us be. With a lot of bombs, he indicated here that community service should be served as punishment. It had to be imposed. If someone didn't do it, they had to be locked up right away. The Minister has been in this position for some time now, but what is happening? In the meantime, we have received a letter containing a bit of crazy things, for example, that 93% will be implemented within 24 months. That's two years! That's pretty long, way too long! That's not even 100%. I want it done right away. It also says that the probation can decide to return a community service. Maybe? If someone doesn't, they have to! That has been a reason for me to prepare, together with the SP, a motion that I would like to table. That motion is about the fact that imposed community service should simply be carried out, and rap. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a substantial part of the community service was not implemented in 2015;]] [[Whereas perpetrators should not avoid their punishment and the credibility and effectiveness of penalties imposed should be undermined if they are not implemented;]] [[calls on the Government to realise that persons who withdraw from community service are tracked down and detained in replacement detention as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to propose and implement concrete measures before the forthcoming budget treatment of the Ministry of Security and Justice in order to reduce significantly the percentage of unimplemented community penalties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34086-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u18	Let me do the Cabinet justice. It says that this is being looked at carefully, that there will be another analysis and that that analysis will also come to the Chamber, but I would like to speed it up a bit. I want a visual on this. I think the Minister would have wanted that, too, as a Member of Parliament. It is not just a matter of not always serving prison sentences and not always serving community service. There is also something with fines up to €340 that may not have to be paid. I understand why this is now regulated in the law, but I don't feel good about it. It's a hell of a lot of money anyway. I want to keep an eye on that. That is why I tabled an amendment rather recently, about half an hour ago, in order to at least have an evaluation clause for this. I want to know how often this happens. Does it really only happen when it no longer serves any reasonable purpose? I see Mrs Kooiman looking; she always fights for people not to be put up against the wall with a fine that they cannot pay. I understand that, but when people get a fine, it's basically just to be paid. For this purpose, this assessment should be made. Finally, we have also talked about youth. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Court of Justice,]] [[Whereas in the case of young people who are subject to a conditional juvenile detention (pij-measure), the court may also determine whether, and if so, in which establishment the juvenile criminal should follow a specific treatment;]] [[Whereas the Chamber held a motion (34300-VI, No. 35), which called on the Government to ensure that these proceedings take place rapidly, in any case no more than three months after the imposition of penalties;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine, together with the chain partners, whether the Administrative and Information Centre for the Executive Chain (AICE) has added value in the early start of such treatments and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34086-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u19	In fact, you can see this as a very constructive way of thinking along. If a young person needs treatment, we can ensure that it goes as quickly as possible. There was a hook here. This is what I want to tell the Minister in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u20	Mr. Chairman. In the second period, we will draw conclusions. I can draw conclusions about this bill quite quickly. I thought the proposal was good in the first period and that has not changed over time. I think it could be a lot more efficient with the CJIB than with the D.A.'s office, I'll also say to the spokeswoman of D66. I've had that experience myself, back when I was working with the D.A.'s office. The district attorney's office is in the middle of arraignment, bringing cases to court, and so on. The things that don't affect that very primary process are always a bit more difficult to organize, whether it's the execution of punishments or supervision of the BOPZ. That's tricky. I have already had discussions about this in the Chamber in other circumstances. Should we let the D.A. keep those duties? This will be reflected in the debate on who is actually leading confused people. Is that the ggz or the D.A.? The cabinet proposal is going to be that the state's attorney's office is in charge. I myself think that the ggz should be leading, because the D.A. always has a different priority. The D.A. wants to handle homicide properly and expeditiously. The issues we are talking about now come second. That is why I think: it is very good to place those practical things with an organisation that is also equipped for that and that has a good track record. I also believe that important decisions should not get any closer to this minister, such as Volkert van der G.'s conditions, executions of failed community service and so on. But that is not what is happening with this law. There is another point that is very close to my heart. I've been working in or at justice for, like, 25 years now. The first few years of that, I worked at the parole board. There I was in charge of the execution of community service. Two things have kept me incredibly well. The first is relative insecurity. I went to work in court later. There were proper security guards. If you hit a button there, someone came running. I felt very safe there. But it wasn't at parole. You were on your own. I haven't been threatened so much anywhere, and beyond that organization. We've been 25 years. I think it is very good that we are once again paying attention to this. I therefore urge the Minister to support this further. The people who actually do this work must be able to be really safe during their work. There must be sufficient attention and sufficient resources for this. I'm on the second case. Sometimes I thought as a probation worker: this community service is done because the person who has to do community service just doesn't want to do it and throws his hat at it. The parole is pretty business, but we really gave the people there chances. At some point, however, it's run out. Then send it in. Then you say: will you apply the stick behind the door, so just give a prison sentence, or else you'll make a joke of community service. It was a great frustration to me if that didn't happen. It didn't happen because deadlines expired. I've even seen a judge say, "Yeah, it's Friday afternoon and you have such beautiful blue eyes, so come on, just one more chance. That's what he literally said. This happened 25 years ago, but I still feel the frustration of that time. Now we are not going to talk about what judges say, but it is important that you carry out community service consistently. That means if it doesn't go well, if the carrot doesn't get caught, the stick will follow. The community service is a major punishment, but it is still a root. If the stick is not used after the root if necessary, you take out the foundation under community service. The letter that followed on the news in the AD that the community service is not properly performed gives confidence in the sense that it is at least less bad. That is good, but I would also like to join all the other speakers who say: beware, this must be given a high priority. I think it's a very important decision. I don't want to lose it because the organization isn't optimal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u21	I hear this second cri du coeur from my colleague about community service sentences that are not being carried out and should therefore be converted into ordinary custodial sentences. In many cases, that is also immediately decided by the judge. Does Mr Recourt agree with me that the D.A. has the very important task of following this up, and that that would be a reason for leaving this responsibility to the D.A. for the rest as well? After all, the prosecution holds that responsibility in that regard. Shouldn't you leave the rest there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u22	No. Once again, the execution of the failed community service and of the prison sentence remains a judge's decision and therefore an action by the prosecution, but the entire administration behind it was precisely my cri du coeur................................................................................................................................................................................... You can organize that much better with an organisation that has the sole aim of organising these kinds of processes tightly. I have great confidence that this will be better and more efficient than the current OM organisation. That's a very good job. I'm not gonna compromise that, but this isn't close to the D.A.'s heart. After the heart lies solving cases, conducting investigations and bringing cases to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u23	Does Mr Recourt see that in future the decision on a possible change of conditions, community service or transposition will also go to the administrative executive body? Then why would the D.A. still pay attention to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u24	It's up to the judge to make those decisions. I absolutely do not want to place a judicial decision with an enforcement organisation. I do not think it is a problem that the administrative process should come to an implementation organisation. As far as I am concerned, this does not affect these fundamental, almost constitutional questions. It's just a matter of who takes care of the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u25	I guess I wasn't clear. The point is that an initiative by the Public Prosecutor is needed in many areas and that the Public Prosecutor will no longer do so if it does not have an interest in the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u26	At least now it's still necessary for the D.A. to bring cases to the judge. That does not change with this law, I say with some reservations. So that remains a critical point in my own reasoning, but at least what we are going to do is better than what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u27	Were you starting your rounding or were you done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u28	In fact, I've already finished the rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u29	Mr. Chairman. The second-term legislative proposal we are discussing today aims to review the enforcement of criminal decisions, more specifically: to speed up implementation, to promote effective implementation and to inform all relevant partners. There can be hardly anyone against that, for punishment must be carried out. Then, of course, it will also help if they are applied more quickly if they have been condemned. Unfortunately, it has recently become painfully clear that this does not happen all the time or even very often. There are still a lot of prison sentences out there. According to the AD, no less than 25% of the public service obligations were imposed in 2015. According to the cabinet, as we read in the letter we have just received, it is 7%. That's 7% too much. It is also said that 93% is carried out in 24 months. That's two years. 240 community service is the maximum. That's to replace six months in prison. If you convert that, it's really not a 40-hour week. So a community service, my group says that very often.... is not a punishment at all. That is supported by the Ministry itself, because it has had this investigated in the past. A report has been produced with the beautiful title: experience of the community service among young people. It says literally that many young people don't think community service is so crazy. I can imagine, hearing what I just said. The media have shown that community service can also be paid off. My group has been concerned about this in the past and is still concerned about it. I conclude that community service is not a punishment at all. I say this as a second-term trip on the topical and urgent subjects we would like to deal with today. I will return to what I said in the first term about this bill. I said that my group is not convinced that the changes proposed in the legislative proposal are going to change the speeding up and effective implementation of the penalties. The minister didn't really convince us. My group does not agree with a number of points that remain. Firstly, the point that the fine can be pardoned less than €340, i.e. remission. The Minister says that this is already happening in practice. That's absolutely true, but even stronger, it happens even in the case of multiple victims, also called "rotary door criminals." The minister says you shouldn't interfere with a care pathway or reintegration path. A convict has to learn from the conviction, from the fine I have to say, and he shouldn't fall into criminal behavior in the face of a setback. You learn from paying the fine, whether or not in instalments. My group believes that fines should be paid; they have not been imposed for nothing. A second point with which my group does not agree is to lay down legally that the probation should in all cases begin to advise on the conditions to be laid down. I have mentioned examples to support my group's position. I have also tabled an amendment on this. The Minister said in the first term that he did not recommend this amendment because he was satisfied with the probation. He also said that this is already happening in practice. This is not really convincing and the amendment remains. In the first term, I also spoke of an obligation to appear at the sitting. The Minister may think I'm repeating myself, and that's true. I will continue to do so to the fullest, for those sentenced to prison will not report to the prison gate. Unfortunately, this still appears to be the case. If you continue to believe that, my group will find that naive. I shall table the next motion in that regard. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft law does not impose an obligation on the defendant to appear;]] [[Considers that when the defendant is present at the courtroom where the sentence is pronounced, the defendant can be immediately sent to prison after sentenced to prison, thus making it impossible to escape from prison;]] [[calls on the Government to include an appearance at the hearing in the Code of Criminal Procedure for suspects of serious violence and sexual offences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34086-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u30	I have another point of criticism. We heard the Minister speak more often about this as a Member of Parliament than as a Minister. I'm referring to the terms of the parole. My group believes that in the event of a violation of the conditions, a convicted person should serve the entire remainder of the sentence. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that if convicted persons violate the conditions imposed on them under conditional release, they should not always automatically serve the remaining prison sentence as a whole, but as a general rule only part of it or nothing at all;]] [[Whereas convicted persons will continue to violate the conditions imposed on them as long as there are no or insufficient consequences;]] [[considers that any violation of the conditions of conditional release should always be subject to consequences regardless of the possible consequences of an infringement, as the conditional release would otherwise be undermined;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for the law that the Public Prosecutor always withdraws the conditional release if a convicted person violates the conditions imposed on him;]] [[calls on the Government also to provide, by law, that where a court has ruled that conditions have been infringed, the person concerned must serve the entire remainder of the previous prison sentence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34086-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u31	I have a question about Mrs Helder's first motion. Isn't the order to bring Mrs. Helder in sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u32	If that were always to be issued, it would be a different story, but unfortunately that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u33	Am I to understand that you want to make it a duty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u34	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u35	Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u36	Not yet, but I'm at the end. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Minister's reaction to two amendments, namely those relating to item Nos. 11 and 13 from the colleague of the SGP. I have co-signed these amendments. In the first term, I indicated that my group will only be able to decide after the Minister's response whether she can agree to the legislative proposal. This is particularly true of the response to the amendments mentioned. The amendment in part No. 11 was dissuaded in the first term, but also by letter, which was sent to support it. In that case, the Minister states that someone returns to society "cold." I do not agree with that, because in prison there is also work on reintegration, as is even laid down by law in Article 2 of the Penitentiary Principles Act. It is unacceptable for my group. If the amendment to item No. It is very likely that my group will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u37	Mr. Chairman. It's been a long time since we talked about this bill. I looked it up: it was December 8th. I replaced my colleague Van Nispen because he became a father that night. I hear the Minister say "Tobias" from section K. That's right. The Minister has immortalized his name very nicely in the Acts, for which thanks. The way he did, there might still be something to notice. It was something with tomato juice, but it was nice that at least attention was paid to it. Because it was such a time ago, I had to dig for a while to remember what the debate was about. When I read everything again, including the letters we have received from the Secretary of State, for example in response to the Ombudsman's reports, questions are still open. I'd like to review that one again. In the first term, we discussed the shift of responsibility for the implementation of the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Minister. We have talked about the concerns of many bodies in the field, those of the SP and those of colleagues about the shift in those responsibilities. There are a number of risks involved. What concerns everyone most is that you make the enforcement of criminal decisions more political. Can the Minister say again exactly how he sees this and how this can be prevented? Why is the advice of the judge or the Public Prosecutor's Office not binding in this regard? That is what the Minister could have chosen. The SP would've thought that was a little cleaner. Why didn't he? The implementing authority to which it comes is the CJIB. You might wonder how we're going to do that ICT-technically. ICT combined with government does not always have a good name. Look at the change at the Tax Office, which was charged at once with the payment of the care and rent allowance. That's where it's had quite a few feet in the earth. I'm worried about that sometimes. Can the Minister take care of those concerns? In the first term, I spoke extensively about the Mulder Fines Act, the traffic fines. It was mainly about taking hostages, so picking up people and locking them up in prison when they don't pay their traffic ticket. The SP has always believed that there is a difference between the people who do not want to pay, but that they can do so. For them, hostage-taking is indeed an absolute possibility to pay the fine and people who do not want to pay. That's a lot of them. The aim of hostages must be to ensure that people do not make another mistake in traffic and learn from it so quickly. This law offers room for a payment arrangement and more customization. The SP likes that very much. We hope that more people will pay the fines and that it will not come to the point of putting people in prison. We have put forward a number of points in the first period to further improve the situation. The SP advocates also looking at replacement detention under Wet Mulderboets, which means that the fine will expire if you have been in prison. I'll explain exactly what I mean. In his first term, the Minister indicated that he had to deal with a number of matters that were truly foreign to him. Most of the time, this minister has been well introduced, but on this issue I can confirm that the minister was a little foreign to the world. As the Minister knows, I've investigated police officers before for those traffic fines. It is not unknown that agents find these fines far too high and that they therefore make much more use of their discretionary powers and therefore do not issue fines. However, they also indicated something else. A cop said it strikingly: "It's better to tear down a flash pole than to get flashed by it." Why did he say that? Firstly, because the penalties in criminal law are often lower than, for example, a traffic fine, and secondly, because the penalty for destruction is due if you do not pay it and go to prison. That is not the case with a traffic ticket through the Wet Mulder: if you are then in prison and are held hostage, your fine will not expire. In fact, if you get out of prison, you're gonna get another raise. That makes this a kind of vicious circle sometimes. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that hostage-taking under the Mulder Act is a means of coercion and not a substitute detention as in criminal law, which means that the fine remains in place despite the hostage situation;]] [[believes that this could lead to people who want to pay their fine but cannot pay it (further) getting into financial difficulties;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how it can be possible for a judge, when approving a hostage request, to also determine that this hostage situation is to be considered as a replacement detention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34086-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u38	I am sympathetic to the idea, but I doubt whether it will turn the right button. The idea is that you only take people hostage who can pay but do not want to pay. The SP, the PvdA and the Ombudsman have fought hard for this. In short: if that works, there are no people who have to serve a fine at all. They can simply pay the fine, but they do not want it. You shouldn't take the other people hostage at all. So can't we push on that side much harder than we are now going down this road? The danger of this road is that people who can pay the fine will not pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u39	I partly agree with my colleague. I will come up with proposals that my colleague may be able to support, but I think there are uneven cases. I find these situations really uneven: in criminal law, the fine does lapse, but when applying the Law Mulder does not. There are judges who would argue for this to be levelled. I say at least investigate it. How you solve that or align it nicely may be a matter of implementation by the Minister, but I would certainly like to see this investigated, because I think the situation is really unfair now. After all, there's a big difference. In the first term, I said that many payment arrangements are rejected because the limit of €225 is too high and too rigid. The National Ombudsman also points out this problem in his investigation of payment problems in the case of traffic fines. The Ombudsman, like the Minister in his first term, indicates that a payment system is possible if the penalty behaviour has increased to €225. The SP wants to get ahead of that moment. Let's face it: for a MP, even from the SP, a fine of €225 is possible to pay, but for a single mother in welfare this is just a quarter of her monthly income. Well, that's another case. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a payment scheme is offered by default only in the case of traffic fines of at least €225;]] [[whereas a payment scheme for traffic fines below €225 can only be made if strict conditions are met;]] [[believes that it is important to prevent people under a certain income from getting into debt if they are unable to pay a traffic fine because of their small wallet;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that those who wish to but cannot pay can also make a payment arrangement for fines below €225 if they are covered by the standards applicable to the assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34086-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u40	I had to deal with these two points in detail because there was also an inquiry from the Ombudsman and the Minister responded extensively to them and then came up with adjustments. I would also like to mention very briefly the community service which my colleagues have already spoken about. I find it rather odd that there is so much difference between the Minister's letter and the notice from the Public Prosecutor's Office and the general newspaper's report. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Minister say 93% of community service sentences are carried out successfully and 7% are not, but there are all kinds of reasons for that. The Algemeen Dagblad reports that a quarter of all community service sentences are not carried out adequately. I find that difficult. The Minister said in his reply, and Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA also said it strikingly, that a lot of time goes by before community service is carried out. From a educational point of view too, you must learn from community service, at least for young people the idea of community service must be implemented quickly. In his letter, the minister ends with concerns that I myself had after reading the article of the General Journal. The director of Reclassing Netherlands says: I am faced with a great deal of aggression from people who have to perform community service. I find that really unacceptable. People have to live up to the standards. Reclamation officers should just feel safe. The Minister says he wants to encourage more reporting. I would very much like to know from the Minister whether so little is being reported. That's what I'm worried about, especially if that warden says so. How can we ensure that more charges are filed? What's the Minister gonna do about it? I would like to return very briefly to my amendment, which deals with the withdrawal of the increase in fines. The Minister indicated in the first period that increasing the fines is a very good incentive to pay. I've been really looking for the Minister's investigation to back up his claim, but I didn't find it. However, I found research which showed that a payment arrangement does lead to the payment of fines. Mrs Helder mentioned this: at least these fines will be paid. But I didn't find that first investigation. I understand the Minister's fear that he may not fill the treasury, but we have just adopted a fine motion by my colleagues from the VVD and the Labour Party, which states that a traffic fine is not intended to fill the treasury. So I do not really see any obstacle to my colleagues anymore to the amendment on item No. 20 votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u41	Mr. Chairman. Non-punishment if misconduct requires or failure to execute a properly imposed punishment is one of the most effective ways in which a teacher loses his or her authority and respect. The same applies mutatis mutandis to the government. That's actually what this bill is about. I would like to thank the Minister for his first answer, almost ten months ago. I would also like to thank him for the letter on the amendment we tabled to item No. 11. I am going to pass on the amendments for a short time. The amendment in part No. 10, which, in connection with a substantive amendment, was also mentioned by the Minister when he commented on the amendment, in the meantime the amendment in part No. 24, aims to ensure that only in very exceptional circumstances of a major nature can prisoners be granted a short interruption of their sentence. As a result of the first deadline, we have amended the amendment in such a way that a penalty interruption for unwanted foreigners can in principle be unlimited. This is more in line with the intention of the situation, namely expulsion. As far as we are concerned, the seriousness of the crime remains an important aspect. We therefore ask the Minister's assurance that in all cases a substantial part of the sentence will actually be served. The amendment in part No. 11 is now the amendment to item No. I would like to thank Mr Helder for his co-signatory. Even after the Minister's letter, we continue to find it unsatisfactory that a person with two separate sentences of one year is much worse off than a person whose sentences have been merged. During the reply, the Minister suggested that it was a bit of a ritual of the SGP to begin with. However, I can assure the Minister that the SGP does not like ritual dances and ritual puddles. I therefore make it clear that the SGP is not talking about the system of conditional release itself, but about a strange part of it in our view. For the actual punishment, it should not matter whether it happens to be served in succession or whether there is some time in between. I hope colleagues will support this amendment. The amendment in part No. 12 provides that conditional release may be postponed or omitted in the event of a danger to the security of society or disturbance to public order. In this amendment, the Minister suggests that it will be fully covered by the exception that there is a risk of recurrence. It remains odd that a person detained for terrorism under the conditional release regime should be allowed to return home early in good conduct. We ask the Minister whether, in such a situation, there is an automatic threat to society and/or the risk of recurrence. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that can be interpreted in this way. If that is the case, we can withdraw the amendment, because then we will have enough of the Minister's interpretation. The amendment in part No. 13 is now the amendment to item No. 26, again in connection with Mr Helder's co-signatory, for which I am grateful. I have no further comments on the substance. I would like to thank the Chamber for its opinion on this amendment. I hope for the support of colleagues. The amendment in part No. 14 provides for the guarantee of the performance of public service obligations. A great deal has already been said by my colleagues. I would like to thank the Minister for the explanatory letter on this matter. However, there is still some uncertainty, as colleagues have already pointed out. Does the Minister now guarantee that any imposed community service will be carried out in any event or will be arranged through a replacement detention? I still have two small, but not insignificant dots. The first and more fundamental point concerns the division of powers between the Minister and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The enforcement of the decisions shall lie with an executive service and not with the Public Prosecutor's Office. Is it now absolutely clear where the powers of the prosecutor cease and the powers of the minister begin? Does this also apply to the transitional period? Is that secure enough? I come to my second and final point. The Public Prosecutor must send the decision to the Minister within two weeks, pursuant to Article 6.1.1. Of course speed is necessary, but is this practical also feasible for the Public Prosecutor's Office? Is there sufficient quality in decision-making and so on if it is to be regulated in the short term? For example, if there are any doubts or administrative errors or errors that the public prosecutor has to resolve first with the other authorities involved, the time limit will be very tight. Is it wise to put that deadline so tight? Isn't that at the expense of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u42	Mr. Chairman. It was almost a year ago when colleagues mentioned that Mrs Swinkels took us in her maiden speech, in her search for the woodworm and its threats or whatever, and in her plea to the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. A few months have passed now and so I reviewed the Acts again to see where we were again. That's exactly why I know. A large number of amendments have been tabled and they are being reviewed again. I do not know whether the Minister is going to pass on all these amendments, but perhaps he will soon be able to look at a somewhat higher level of abstraction as to what the Court's opinion is on every point. That would at least help me to advise my group. I would like to make four more points. In part, I've been treating them a few months ago. In part, the current situation in recent months has caught up with us on some points. I'll start with the waiver of fines. I would very much appreciate it if, for the sake of the Acts, the Minister, in accordance with the letter we received from the Secretary of State, explicitly pointed out that the starting point was and remains that financial sanctions should be met. Perhaps there are reasons to think about the way you continue to deal with it, for example in terms of deadlines or I know what. If, however, such a person again commits something that is punishable by speeding, committing a crime, committing an offence or whatever, the flexibility that may then be offered in the context of payment periods may be withdrawn. I understand that this is still being worked out in the Administrative Enforcement Act. I would like to hear from the Minister when this is going to happen, because then I can pass that on to the relevant spokesperson at the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u43	I have listened to my VVD colleague, but it is still not quite clear to me. Is he saying never forgiveness can never happen? Or does he say that in the event of recidivism, if someone gets another fine after a waiver, we should have a good look at what we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u44	I'll say what I say. I think the starting point should be that you pay financial sanctions, fines, just like that. I would also like the Minister to repeat this. After all, it is a punishment imposed. You've committed a crime yourself, and you're responsible for it yourself. So you can't just avoid the punishment. I take note of the fact that the government is making proposals for deadlines and so on. I'm just saying that I don't see any reason to be so flexible as to allow someone to continue committing the same crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u45	Then it's the tone that makes the difference. Everyone agrees that you should pay fines in principle. Everyone also agrees that if you get opportunities, then significantly less flexible is handled with you. Luckily, the VVD also thinks that we can give people who are really stuck, and I recommend that Mr Van Oosten join us with a director or a debt relief provider. Now they are being withdrawn from their legs because they accumulate fines, so they never come out of a debt relief situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u46	Then it is not only the tone that makes a difference between Mr Recourt and me, but perhaps also the content, as we zoom in on it a little more deeply. As far as I'm concerned, it starts with whoever commits the offense. He's responsible for that. I see around me that there is a need to provide more time limits. All at your service; I think there should be paid in the end. However, I also think that you should be strict and rigid when someone then ignores all the rules we have agreed with each other in this country. Now I will also mention the other points, first of all the conditional release. When we had this discussion a year ago, I assumed that the WODC would investigate the desirability of conditional release. That turned out not to be the case, as it became clear to me during that debate, but I would like that to be the case. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the system of conditional release allows a prisoner to be released on parole after two thirds of imprisonment;]] [[noting that the early release of detainees after serving two-thirds of the prison sentence should not become an automatic procedure and that an individual assessment should be made;]] [[Whereas, in order to make this assessment, the interplay of probation and the Judicial Institutions Service (DJI) determines the advice given to the Public Prosecutor's Office (OM) for the purpose of designing conditional release (vi);]] [[calls on the government to carry out an investigation into the current system and whether this is still satisfactory and, if no, should be tightened up in order to prevent conditional release from becoming de facto automatic, and to send the results of this investigation to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34086-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u47	I'm not about judging a motion, but this seems just standing policy. It's not automatism. Early release is I do this out of my head in 2008 turned into a conditional release. So the automatism is off. However my group feels about conditional release, that is simply a fact. What exactly is this investigation supposed to prove? I hear Mr Van Oosten say: if the system is not satisfactory. When won't it be enough? I don't understand this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u48	I would like to thank Mrs Helder for this question. That's exactly why I want that looked at. I have my questions with regard to the system of conditional release that is now in place, because I find that a lot of prisoners may not be automated according to the letter of the law, because that is what Mrs Helder is right about, in fact, after two thirds of the sentence outside the prison wall. That is why we are having this discussion with each other. I wonder whether this is useful, necessary and desirable in all cases. Exactly that's what I want to take a critical look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u49	Mrs. Helder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u50	Finally, may I ask Mr Van Oosten whether he means that the conditions that can be imposed, the range we have today, will also have to pass the test of criticism in that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u51	Absolutely. I simply want to see a broad assessment, including the content and the kind of conditions that are imposed, and whether these need to be strengthened, as this study shows. Then we can discuss this with each other. I see that time is moving forward, but I would like to make one more comment about the self-detectors. I'm telling you honestly: I'm getting a whiff of the fact that we're confronted with it over and over again. I don't blame anyone for this happening. There are figures who are convicted by the judge and who, when they receive a call to report to the prison gate, do not show up. I can't get this explained. I don't think that's a good behavior. I don't know why they should be rewarded with the possibility of conditional release. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that most persons sentenced to prison do not receive them immediately after the sentence has been pronounced;]] [[establishing that these persons are subsequently called upon to report to a penitentiary establishment to serve their sentence;]] [[noting that a large number of these so-called "self-detectors" do not report themselves and that high costs are incurred in trying to put these persons behind bars;]] [[Whereas this is totally undesirable and this behaviour does not allow these persons to understand the crimes committed by them;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that the fact that a person does not report himself to a penitentiary establishment should not remain without consequences for the execution of the prison sentence imposed;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility of withholding conditional release if persons who are allowed to report themselves after imprisonment do not report themselves to a penitentiary facility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34086-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u52	I hear Mr Van Oosten say that if someone did not come in after conviction, and the police finally tracked him down, at least that last phrase I read between the rules by............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Does Mr Van Oosten think that they will come forward more quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u53	With this I aim to make something clear when these kinds of figures don't come. They have the opportunity to sit at home in anticipation of their punishment. They should have learned lessons from the verdict and, in Mrs Helder's view, should have been present at the delivery of that judgment. If they put all this aside, we'll say "come now" in good faith, and they won't come. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm done with those kind of guys. Then good behavior is far away. I am not in the mood for such figures to be rewarded. I ask the Minister to take a critical look at it and investigate it. That is the thrust of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u54	Mrs. Helder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u55	Finally, Mr President. If you are serious about this, you must ensure that those figures do not have the opportunity to report themselves and therefore to withdraw from the execution of the sentence to be imposed. Then you must make sure that they are present at the verdict. Then they can be taken to prison immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u56	I agree with Mrs Helder that it is a search for how to optimize that system, so to speak. We also know that we are dealing with the actual situation that what Mrs Helder is trying to achieve is not the case and in some cases difficult to organise for constitutional reasons. I will make my final point, if the President will allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u57	I'll allow you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u58	Several colleagues have already said a few things about community service. I read the letter the Secretary of State sent about this. Fortunately, this makes it clear that the situation we read about in the AD does not arise. However, I find it terrible to find that there are figures in our system who are given the opportunity to carry out a punishment in the open, and who in such an unbelievable way destroy it, by grossly insulting or intimidating the probation staff, as we heard the director of probation tell on television, and also read in the newspaper. I am pleased to read in the letter from the Secretary of State that he is taking measures to this end. I think you should put in rücksichtslos that replacement custody. I would very much like to hear from the Minister how we prevent this kind of community service from being punished even though I read in the letter that this is only a small group of people who ultimately avoid the punishment, because they do not deserve it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u59	We are therefore in second place at the end of the Chamber's contribution. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u60	We need the Minister's response. I suggest that he only responds to the amendments in so far as he has not yet done so in the previous discussion. It is therefore only a question of the amendment to item No. 32, because that is a new amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u61	No. 32? You mean no. 27? There is no No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u62	It's no. 32 to replace No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u63	Oh, because Mr. Van Oosten co-signed. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u64	Yeah, because of the signing. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u65	I will, Mr. Chairman. I do not, by the way, comply with the request made by one of the Members who said that I would be very grateful if I were to pass through all the amendments. I won't, at your request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u66	I don't think that's necessary. Let me look at the Members of Parliament: it is a matter of reading what has been said about it. I therefore propose that you only deal with the new amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u67	Things aren't going well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u68	Yes, questions have been asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u69	No, a number of amendments have been amended and I would like to change my opinion. Otherwise, it won't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u70	Then things are really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u71	I am therefore only doing so for the amendments that have been amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u72	I'd say so. A question has also been asked here and there. I'm sure you'll agree to that, too. I am concerned that we do not have to pass the amendments one by one if this is not necessary in substance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u73	I will try to meet your request as much as possible. I'll do my best and be very brief. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Members for their contributions in the second term. Indeed, the first period is still fresh in my mind. It was Mrs. Swinkels' first speech in the Chamber, her maiden speech, an impressive story about fainting and blackouts that she had received in her career. At that time I thought: that is hopeful; we will see this several times over the coming months and that is nice and quiet. But I can tell you that Mrs Swinkels' promise has not been fulfilled. I haven't found anything from blackouts or fainting. She has developed over the past ten months into an excellent MP, who has not yet shown any blackouts or fainting. Tobias is of course ten months now. I haven't seen him since, so I don't know exactly what his reaction is to the fact that he's in the Acts. I do know that his father has been with us for months now with great success, so I think Tobias is doing well too. I would like to comment briefly on the purpose of this bill. A lot of questions are asked in response to current events, which almost makes you think that the bill is organizing a few small things, while it is a fundamental part of the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is one of the first legislative proposals in this context and is given great importance in practice. Contrary to what Mrs Swinkels suggested, the Public Prosecutor is strongly in favour of this bill, precisely for the reason given by Mr Recourt. The Public Prosecutor himself says: let us do what we are meant to do, namely find and prosecute, and let the execution of criminal decisions no longer take place under our responsibility, so that everyone can do what they are designed to do. Mrs Swinkels suggested that she might advise her group to vote against the bill, whereas in practice this is very much awaited, particularly by the Public Prosecutor's Office. I just wanted to bring that to your attention. What do we do with this bill? Provisions that were fragmented about the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure have now been brought together in a new book of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The procedures and languages have been merged and modernised. The legal reality is thus brought into line with what is actually happening in the implementation. The Minister will be directly responsible for the implementation tasks, which, moreover, are already largely carried out by my executive services. At the same time, the implementation of the implementation is improved by the realisation of the AICE. Together, this should achieve the main objective of improving the quality of implementation. This means that the system of implementation as a whole is re-established. Thus, this bill is the first instalment of the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The penalties must be implemented quickly and effectively. I'm tasting that call here in the Chamber. Bodies should be informed in a timely and complete manner. The Public Prosecutor continues to be the exclusive supplier of criminal decisions to the Administration and Information Centre for the Executive Chain. The Public Prosecutor's Office is also dependent on the quality of delivery by the judiciary; of course we must realize that. The Public Prosecutor's Office holds its magisterial role in enforcement. Nothing's gonna change that. Under the direct responsibility of the Minister, the AICE will issue the execution orders; it will maintain the direction and central overview. This enables the person-oriented temporary implementation. It is ultimately up to the enforcement services that operate under the responsibility of me and the Secretary of State to ensure that penalties imposed are implemented as effectively and efficiently as possible. For that, I can see broad support in the Chamber. Mrs Swinkels has repeated a number of points which she had already raised in the first period. Is there a risk that the D.A.'s office will be controlled politically? In the first term, I have already shown that this is not the case. That is not the purpose of this bill, let alone of its actual implementation. In any case, the person in charge shall be accountable for the manner of implementation in concrete cases. A good example is the question of community service, which was immediately answered by the Secretary of State today. That's the system we've had for a long time. So, as I demonstrated in detail in the first period, I have no fear of any political influence as a result of this bill, other than the situation we already have. Mrs Swinkels said that there is no report, so I have understood her saying that this is the way it should be. In this context, I would like to refer again to the Court of Auditors' report on performance in the criminal justice chain. This showed that there was no central control, that a number of things between all these different organisations were not going well and that from the beginning to the end they did not know exactly where these things actually were. I would like to refer Mrs Swinkels to a specific recommendation from that report, because I think it is very important that the first part of the legislative proposal in the context of modernising criminal proceedings should also be endorsed by D66. One of the recommendations in the report of the General Court of Auditors is that it should be possible to provide central guidance, albeit in my opinion the Court of Auditors does not go far enough. In close consultation with the state's attorney's office, we're doing that in this bill now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u74	We also fully agree with what the Court of Auditors says about the lack of central control, but it is still unclear to D66 why the central direction within the bosom of the Public Prosecutor could not be improved. We haven't actually heard about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u75	The D.A.'s office doesn't include this in its core task. The public prosecutor would like to carry out his core task; I have explained this to Mrs Swinkels in the first term. The public prosecutor wants to get rid of this task and feels it is okay if it retains its majestic role, but is no longer harassed with the execution. I can't tell you any better than that. The public prosecutor is strongly in favour of this bill, because it itself recognises that it is not well-designed to carry out that task. The AICE, in combination with the CJIB, is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u76	My colleague from the SGP has rightly pointed out that it is not clear at the moment I hope that the Minister still deserves clarification where the powers of the Public Prosecutor end and those of the AICE begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u77	For this, I refer to the legislative proposal, because this has been mentioned in the legislative proposal. However, I shall return to Mr Bishop's question in a moment. Mrs Van Toorenburg referred to a small debate she had with the Secretary of State on the division of responsibility: who is responsible for this? It should be clear that the directors are able to respond to the results achieved. We already are, but we are in a more direct sense because we take care of the direction ourselves. That means that the Chamber is still at the right place with me and my colleague, the Secretary of State, especially when it comes to execution. Mrs. Kooiman asked about the political influence. I have already demonstrated in detail in the first period that it is not on the agenda. Mrs Kooiman also asked why the judge's opinion was not binding on enforcement. The purpose of the opinion is to enable the judge to rule on the manner in which he or she wishes to be enforced. This is not binding, but in all cases where the opinion is delivered, it is brought to the attention of and, as far as possible, followed by the authorities responsible for the effective enforcement of the sentence. You can then think of a particular location on which I have had an exchange of views with Mrs Van Toorenburg about the execution of a custodial sentence or task or a specific time for enforcement, for example that it should or should not take place during a celebration such as the turn of the year. You can imagine that a judge can say: I would appreciate it if the wheeldriver concerned were to be punished just during the turn of the year. That advice is very important, but it is not binding. Mrs Kooiman asked about the risks of providing information. That is always a legitimate question when it comes to new systems. In this case, I note that the implementation of the USB design, as it is so beautifully called, is phased through what is called an "incremental approach" in terms of experts. If Mrs Kooiman dares to ask another question, I do not know, Mr President! This means for normal people that an ICT part project can only start when all the conditions are met. The chainwork process needs to be worked out. Decision-making took place on the basis of an implementation test. Financial coverage is arranged, both for incidental and structural costs. At the end of the day, this means that an ICT project can only start when there is a view of the amount of resources needed and when funding is regulated. This reduces the risks of such an ICT project. Mr Recourt and Mrs Kooiman asked about the probation staff. I think that in his letter the Secretary of State puts the right emphasis on the fact that we all find it unacceptable when people who are part of the criminal justice chain, in any way, behave unfairly towards people who are working with them on behalf of society. Of course, that applies to police officers, firefighters and paramedics. Let me just add that it also applies to conductors in public transport, enforcers and boas on the street. It's unacceptable for people to behave unfairly or aggressively against these people. The same applies to parole staff. I know that Mr Recourt himself has had experience of this, as he so nicely said. A big mouth is up to that point, but that is also what I think, and the Secretary of State already thinks that goes a long way with me. In the meantime, we realize that the target group is becoming increasingly complex. We are increasingly dealing with psychological problems. This also means that the behaviour of the task force is more often explosive and less predictable. In the meantime, the parole board is also taking measures to do this. The probation organizes meetings how best to deal with that complex target group. In addition, attention is paid to increasing the resilience of the probation staff. The probation will actively focus on better recording of incidents with aggression and increasing the reporting and declaration readiness of employees. Let me be very simple about this. I can figure out a number of reasons why you might not press charges if you're a parole officer confronted with behavior beyond the limits. I could imagine that you realize, precisely because you, as a parole officer, know the person concerned well, that it might be counterproductive in the process you want to go through. In all other cases, I cannot actually come up with an argument not to press charges, especially if that is an argument that people expect to have problems with them. There must always be a report if there are no professional considerations to avoid doing so. These declarations should also be followed up, as the Secretary of State writes. I come to Mr Bishop's question as to whether I can confirm that the penalties for a substantial part are served by foreigners. He asked that in response to his amendment. I can confirm that in the case of penalties of less than three years imposed on foreign nationals, half of the sentence may be suspended. That is therefore a provision which applies to penalties of less than three years' duration. Punishment of three years and more may be granted after two thirds of the sentence. I remember that we also discussed this in the first period of time, which would mean less punishment for the person concerned, but would then be expelled. Mr Bishop asked if I can guarantee that all community service will be carried out. I can answer that question very easily, because I am not going to answer it, although I am, of course, responsible for it in some sense. That's what the Secretary of State is about. I think we should look very closely at the Secretary of State's letter. He wrote that 93% of all community service sentences were carried out in some form, and that 7% of the problems raised by the Secretary of State in his letter appeared. There is no doubt about the ambition of both directors of Security and Justice: community service should simply be implemented. Of course, we cannot guarantee that, but I have just said that it is a complex target group and of course the convicted also do their best to stay under the radar as much as possible. However, the ambition may be clear and the figures that are now available, those 93%, I think are perfectly acceptable. It would be better if it were 100% and it would be even better if the deadline for achieving that ambition were shorter. This is also endorsed by the Secretary of State. Mr Bishop asked about the time limit for delivery, those two weeks. He's worried about that. Let me first say that I have just discussed this. The nice thing is that in the youth domain it is said from the practical point of view that the two-week period is actually very long. I think that's what Mrs. Kooiman pointed out. Especially among young people, lick-on-piece policies are inconceivablely important. So I say together with the people from the field: let's not rest in those two weeks, let's make it go faster. There's that need. The deadline will of course not run until the prosecution receives a ruling or a decision that can actually be enforced. That is why I said in my introductory words that it is essential that the statement, once it is there, fully meets all the quality requirements. The public prosecutor depends on the quality of the case-law for the enforcement of such decisions. The time limit will therefore not run until the judgment is given, and if the time limit runs, it must be feasible within two weeks. I have no doubt about that. Mr Van Oosten asked whether the starting point was that financial sanctions should also be implemented. I can reassure him in that. The answer to that is yes. That is and will remain the starting point. Stopping the collection is subject to strict rules. The Secretary of State has also reported this to the House of Representatives. That letter also lays down the principles which I am sure Mr van Oosten can refer to. Then there is a question from Mr Bishop about the division of responsibility between the Minister and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm gonna take a break for a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u78	I shall return to the Minister's words. This is not the case if someone commits another offence, ignores a fine and so on. I can take that, can't I? Otherwise, I think bad behavior still seems to be rewarded, and I think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u79	No, bad behavior is not rewarded. Mr Van Oosten and I agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u80	I'm glad to hear that, but I put another question to that. Perhaps the Minister would have come back to that. I understand from the Secretary of State's letter that a further frame work follows in another legal procedure, a legal procedure which may be avoided from the spokesmen present here, at least to me. It's about the law... I have to keep the name guilty, but I just mentioned the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u81	The Administrative Enforcement Act traffic regulations, the WAHV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u82	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u83	In my opinion, does it ever come up here, or does it belong to the spokesmen in the field of traffic? I'm gonna check on my backup. I see nodding, so that proposal is probably being dealt with by the spokesmen in the area of traffic. The WAHV, that is the settlement of the Law Mulder. It will be dealt with by the traffic spokesmen, but I will ensure that your thoughts and suggestions are taken into account. Of course, the spokesmen are always free to agree with the colleagues of traffic themselves that the bill will be dealt with by this committee. Mr Bishop asked about the division of responsibility between the Minister and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I could easily remove that question by referring Mr Bishop to the law, because that is what it says. We have also discussed this in detail in the explanatory statement. Let me briefly repeat what it says. The Minister will be directly responsible for the enforcement of criminal decisions upon entry into force of the law. This will ensure that I have an overview of the entire implementation chain and that it can be steered centrally so as to enable the swift and effective enforcement of criminal decisions. Decisions taken during the implementation phase shall be taken by the Minister in so far as it does not result from the law that such decisions must be made by the judge or the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Minister is legally entrusted with and directs the execution of criminal decisions. The coordination of actual implementation shall be central to the CJIB. The AICE was established for this purpose; it is part of the CJIB. The shift of responsibility also means that the Minister becomes directly responsible for the actual enforcement of the provisional detention decision after the entry into force of the USB Act. In the new situation, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall provide the Minister with all enforceable decisions. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office remains responsible for specific tasks within the implementation. I can mention that for a while, but that's a whole list. I hope that Mr Bishop has received sufficient answers to his questions. If he doesn't, he'll probably ask another question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u84	That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u85	Thank you. These are official answers which can also be found in the text of the law, but in the course of the preparation, you are opposed to the fact that this is a matter of concern for the sections involved, just like the other point I have raised, that two-week period. As far as I am concerned, the Minister cannot simply refer to the formal texts. This is a signal from the professional groups themselves. I invite the Minister to pay particular attention to this issue of concern in the contacts with the professions, so that there can be no uncertainty in any case. I would appreciate it if that could be the tone of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u86	Then I would ask Mr Bishop to tell us which professions he means. The Public Prosecutor, who is directly responsible for this, has no question about this. They read the law and know where they stand. They are delighted when this law is passed by both Chambers. That can't be where the question is. I cannot imagine that there would be any ambiguity in the legal profession, because it is in the law. The legal profession is ideally suited to read and interpret the law. The judiciary works with this, but for them nothing really changes. They don't care who does the execution, as long as it happens. So there can be no doubt there either. So the question is which professions Mr Bishop is referring to. Maybe he can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u87	Without going into detail, it is these professions where these kinds of signals can be received, especially in the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I do not think it is appropriate to make this public here, but I invite the Minister to take this as a signal and to ensure that this remains a point of attention in communication and in further discussion of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u88	Let us point out that this bill has been discussed extensively by everyone. The judiciary, the prosecutor, the lawyer and all the committees that are involved have advised on this. Of course, there are consultations with these parties in the implementation process, including the way in which they are implemented. This will not be a 24-hour route, as the Chamber knows. Of course, we are discussing all the steps we are taking with all the parties concerned, and I can reassure Mr Bishop. But the law is and will remain the law. There can be no doubt about that. I can confirm to Mr Recourt, on the basis of the letter from the Secretary of State, that the probation will, of course, be supported in the care of his own staff as far as she feels appropriate. Mrs Helder asked about the obligation to appear in plenary session. I shall return to the debate on the motion in a moment. I always find that a good point of discussion. On the fine, I will return to the amendment in a moment. I'm going to see Mr Van Oosten. In the meantime, I see that it is the judicial spokesmen who will judge the Law Mulder, the Enforcement Act. The framework for the remission of fines, which Mr van Oosten is concerned about, will take place in the implementing legislation under this bill. The policy rules may therefore be reviewed by the Court for further review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u89	The question I am about to ask is perhaps a far too procedural one for this company and for this Chamber. Does this, according to the Minister's science, automatically come to us? Or should the Chamber actively ask for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u90	The policy rules are not, I presume, automatically submitted to the Chamber. So you're gonna have to ask for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u91	Can I do this along this road, or should I go another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u92	This is agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u93	Well, we're not in the world to make each other's lives miserable or to complicate things. I will ensure that the policy rules are also presented to the Chamber so that the spokesmen can take a look at them. I come to the amendments. I'm just gonna walk by them real quick anyway. I think that's a good idea. The opinion on the amendment to item No. 13 of the SGP, I left it to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 14 from the SGP, I have advised against it. The amendment in part No. 15 from the PVV, I didn't recommend it. The amendment in part No. 16 from the CDA, I didn't recommend it. The amendment in part No. 19 from the CDA, I didn't recommend it. The amendment in part No. 20 from the SP, I've advised against it. The amendment in part No. 22, by the CDA, was amended after consultation and after the debate last time. I leave the opinion on that amendment to the House. The amendment in part No. 23, from the CDA, was also modified after the consultation last time. I would also like to leave this amendment to the House. The amendment in part No. 24, of the SGP, was amended after the first deadline. I leave the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 25 was previously submitted by the SGP in document No. 11. I did not recommend that amendment at the time. The PVV has now supported this amendment. However, I still cannot reach a different verdict. I must therefore advise against it, knowing that this may lead to the loss of Mrs Helder's support for this bill. I'd rather not lose that support. I hope that Mrs Helder, considering everything, will realise that everything that is regulated in this law is of such importance that perhaps this point should be considered subordinate. But it is up to Mrs Helder and her group to decide. I remember that in the first period on the amendment to item No. Mr Bishop. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. This amendment, too, has now been signed by Mrs Helder. That is why it now has No. 26 whereas it was originally No. 12 had. I did not recommend the amendment, and that remains the opinion. That is when a new amendment was tabled, namely No. 32. That was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Oosten. I can speak long and broad about this amendment, but it is very simple. In principle, we would come to an evaluation anyway. So this amendment may not be urgently necessary, but I have no objection to it being done in this way. I shall therefore leave that amendment to the House. I'll get on the motions. The first is the Van Toorenburg/Kooiman motion, in part No. 28. It calls on the government to propose and implement concrete measures before the budget of Security and Justice, i.e. before the end of November, in order to reduce significantly the percentage of unexecuted community sentences. The percentage of non-executed community service is 7. The ambition is to reduce it, but it will not happen before the budget is dealt with. You cannot make proposals and implement them in a month's time. That's too hard. I fully support the thrust of the motion. Of course, we are striving for 100% of community service to be carried out, but we also know that this will never happen. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that too. I therefore support the thrust of the motion, but the motion as such must be discouraged. Then I come to the Van Toorenburg motion on part No. 29, which says: before 1 January. I agree with the motion in that I leave the opinion to the Chamber if Mrs Van Toorenburg is prepared to say to me that she also understands that I cannot do so before 1 January. I will endeavour to provide that information in spring 2018. If Mrs Van Toorenburg agrees, I will interpret the motion in this way...Sorry, I mean: spring 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u94	I was startled, because the minister suddenly shot over it for a year and a half. With regard to this other time-limit, we have been working together for six years to get effective in the implementation of community service. So I'm not going to hold on to that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u95	Okay, but this one does? Mrs Van Toorenburg does not have to hold her. This is my opinion on the motion on item No. 29. Mrs Van Toorenburg says her motion in part No. 28 to be put to the vote. I'd advise against it. From the motion in part No. 29 I am merely saying: if I may interpret her in such a way that 1 January is to be read as "spring 2017," then I can leave the judgement to the Chamber. The Helder motion in part No. 30 is about the obligation to appear. What the hell are we gonna do with that? I have had to discourage a similar motion for many reasons. Mrs Swinkels also asked the question: what about an injunction? That is also the answer we have. Here, the judge can continue to do customized work. That's my preference, so I'm gonna have to discourage that motion. The Helder motion in part No. 31 removes the customization. That is Mrs Helder's intention, but I think it is very important that we establish that the legal basis is that conditional release (vi) is revoked if the convicted person has not complied with a condition. In the end, the judge will decide on this at the request of the D.A.'s office. The judge may then withdraw the vi in whole or in part. That customization is necessary in order to be able to react proportionally to non-compliance with the conditions. I remember Mrs Helder and I had an exchange of views on this earlier. Then I gave the example: if one of the conditions is a notification obligation and a person, by chance, does not come to that notification obligation or arrives a day later, is that a reason to put him in jail? The answer is, I don't think so. But there's no other way. If you were to endorse this motion Helder, it must be, because it is a violation of the provision. I do like it so much that we can deliver customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u96	We have had this discussion before. That was also the reason for me to add a number of words to the motion. Indeed, I have it in my mind: "calls on the government to legislate that the Public Prosecutor always withdraws'. But it also says: "calls on the government also to regulate legally that when a judge has ruled that conditions have been violated." If a person is indeed unable to comply with an obligation to report due to an accident or something like that, no judge will decide that he should then serve the remainder of the sentence. So that customization is still in there. The hole is only a lot smaller. So, a little reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u97	But then the last part of the motion is strange, because then it says: "The government also asks to regulate legally that if a judge has ruled that conditions have been violated, the person concerned must serve the entire remainder of the prison sentence previously imposed." That would therefore simply be the judge's judgement, but this suggests that, for example, the judge may consider that the obligation to notify has indeed been violated, but that prison time should not be served. What do we do? I still think it's a vague matter. Let us stick to the legal text we have. That's why I don't recommend the motion. In her motion in part No. 33 calls on Mrs Kooiman to examine how it can be made possible for a judge, when approving a hostage request, to also determine that a hostage holding is to be considered as a replacement detention. Hostage is claimed if a person does not want to pay but can pay, as Mr Recourt has rightly pointed out. By the way, the number of hostage requests has fallen by over 130,000 cases in a year. This means that the Secretary of State has acted diligently on this point as a result of the agreements he has made with the Chamber. The payment possibilities of the person concerned are viewed much more carefully than ever before. Hostage is only applied where it is really necessary. Mrs Kooiman also knows that there are now opportunities to pay in instalments. This means that, of course, personal circumstances are taken into account when imposing sanctions. I don't see any added value in considering that as replacement custody. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Mrs Kooiman wants to take the Kooiman/Recourt motion in part No. 34 ensure that payment schemes are offered under €225. There's gonna be a time when you have to ask what meaning sanctions still have. Even people voting for the SP will only be sanctioned if they do something that violates the law. It's as simple as that. Anyone who's having trouble paying a fine just has to comply with the law. It is getting a little crazy if we immediately offer a payment system for every fine imposed when any rule is exceeded. That goes too far at some point. We have looked very carefully at where the need lies. There has been a need to be able to pay sanctions from €225 in instalments. That is also the amount used in the Code of Criminal Law to authorise forward payments. This bill will make this possible formally. I do not see any reason to make any changes under this, even though we have not even evaluated this new measure of payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u98	I very much agree with the Minister that a fine should simply be paid and that we should look closely at whether, if someone wants to but cannot, a payment arrangement is possible. The Minister says that there is a need for evaluation, but it has already been carefully looked at by the Ombudsman, who has advised on this. The Ombudsman says that this is very difficult for many people, especially under the welfare standard. They want to pay, but they find it hard to do it. The Ombudsman calls for this standard to be adjusted slightly downwards. I think this is a very reasonable request, so Minister, please make this reasonable request, which is not only made by the Labour Party and the SP, but also by the Ombudsman, who has looked at it thoroughly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u99	I've indicated why I think this shouldn't be done. People who receive assistance must also comply with the rules. I do not see why you should then say that there is less to be paid or that more can be done about the payment. It all costs money, too. We must draw clear limits somewhere. We have set it at €225. If people follow the rules, they never have to pay anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u100	There is a difference: if the minister gets a fine of €225, it is not a quarter of his salary. For a single woman in welfare, that's true. Then make an arrangement for those people who really want to, but can't! The Ombudsman has already indicated this. I think this is a little too rigid, especially when you look at what people who have really looked at it are advising. There's nothing more to it than having the motion put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u101	Mrs. Kooiman has that right. The advice remains the same: dissuade. I come to motion-Van Oosten on part No. 35 in which the government is asked to investigate conditional release. I agree with Mrs Helder that it is not automatic. That's right. We have already agreed that the WODC will investigate the system of promotion and degradation in prison. The former State Secretary said a few things about this in 2014. The evaluation of the regime's promotion/degradation will be completed in 2016. Based on the outcome of this research, I will consider how the research question for the WODC can be formulated in this context. If we look at the conditional release, the discussion that has taken place in society over the past year on how these conditions have been fulfilled and the court cases that have taken place over the past few months, there is something to be said to consider, as a result of the evaluation, whether that aspect, the link between PhDs, degradation and conditional release, but also the conditional release as such, how is it implemented? It may be a good reason for an investigation by the WODC. I will inform the Chamber how the investigation questions will be formulated if the Chamber adopts the motion. That is why I leave the motion to the Chamber. In the Van Oosten/Van Toorenburg motion on part No. 36 the government is asked to investigate the possibility of withholding the conditional release when it comes to self-defense. Let me point out that parole only applies from one year of custodial sentence. Self-detectors are for the most part only for custodial sentences of less than a year. I do not consider it appropriate to examine the exceptions to the rule. Non-detectors are punished for not entering the plus program, but in the basic program. The consequences of this are already being felt. I must discourage the motion for this reason. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-26.u102	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on the law on the implementation of criminal law decisions. The motions, the amendments and the bill will be voted on next Tuesday.
