ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Security and Justice to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. The draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure in relation to the convict's own contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care aims at imposing a compulsory own financial contribution for the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care. The starting point of the legislative proposal is that those who break the law and provoke the criminal action should be held responsible for at least part, a small part, of the costs borne by society for criminal proceedings and the execution of the sentence. The explanatory statement states that it is no longer self-evident that these costs are mainly borne by society. That is exactly what we are going to be discussing here today, I think. For this own contribution, price tags are used with lump sums, rising from €375 for a conviction by the canton judge to about €1,975 for a conviction by a multiple chamber of the court. The real purpose of the bill has been driven financially to the observation of my group. The CDA has a hard time with that. It would be a break in our carefully constructed and long-standing system of criminal proceedings, a system that has been based on two pillars for decades: punishment and socialisation. By imposing a financial contribution on those convicted by occasional legislation, in addition to their punishment, resocialisation is at risk, at least in a number of cases, which is made more difficult. There is a risk that a number of convicted persons, including ex-prisoners, may be more likely to repeat or receive assistance more quickly with a high level of debt for them. Earlier, the CDA Group asked whether the benefits of this bill outweigh the costs and whether the previously envisaged proceeds of then EUR 65 million could be achieved. At the time, there was a combination of this bill with bill 34068, which provided for compensation for detention. Because this contribution for residence has been withdrawn................................................................................................................................................................................................. In it, the expected yield has been reduced. A net revenue of EUR 47 million is now assumed. The scheme provides that a proportion of the proceeds to be determined by ministerial regulation will be used for victim care. Even now, however, the question remains whether the intended financial objective will be achieved. This bill is an administrative contribution in the form of an administrative debt to which the General Administrative Law applies. The CAK should act as a collection agency. This own contribution is therefore not imposed by the court. According to the proposal, the collection strategy aims to ensure that recovery means are used only for persons who can but do not want to pay. A comprehensive package of exception rules is provided to provide tailor-made solutions in relation to the intended personal collection strategy. The CDA Group fears that this will result in red tape and may lead to the legalisation of the collection process. I am thinking, among other things, of appeals and appeals. In preparing for this plenary session, much has been traded on the financial aspects of this amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Revenues, costs and collection rates are mainly based on expectations, assumptions and assumptions. The desirability and effectiveness of the legislative proposal can be seriously questioned with regard to the CDA Group. More importantly, however, we consider that relatively little attention has been paid to the more fundamental aspects of the legislative proposal. For example, what is the state of play with regard to the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State of 13 July 2015 on sanctioning systems? The Minister would aim to have a substantive response to this opinion in the first half of 2016. Then why is the Minister going through with this bill now? We can also ask this question about the time when this bill is dealt with by the Supreme Court. After all, the Minister has the plan to bring the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure to the House of Representatives in the foreseeable future. Finally. It is clear that my group has great difficulty with this bill. The CDA is in principle opposed to financial leadership in our criminal law. We therefore feel more inclined to await the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure and, if necessary, to resolve this issue there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u3	This bill has been welcomed by the VVD group. We asked a few questions during the written preparation and thanked the Minister for his answer to these questions. Maybe it's good to start with what this bill isn't. It's not compensation directly to the victim. It's not a fine. The origin of the proposed payment does not lie in the offence, which lies in the costs to be incurred for the criminal proceedings. Nor is the bill absolving of illegally obtained benefit and its own contribution is not part of the penalty. These four points are already regulated by existing laws. Then what is the bill? The convict broke the penal code. The result is a criminal trial. There are costs involved. These costs do not want to charge the bill exclusively to the taxpayer; the convicted person also has to pay part of it. This is similar to environmental law: the polluter pays. That is contrary to the view that criminal justice is a primary public task. A primal task, to prevent self-direction. It is true, but that does not mean that all costs are automatically borne by the taxpayer. It is reasonable for the co-payer to pay, as is the case with airport security controls. This principle is not contested in the documents. The advice of the Council of State, the Acts of the House of Representatives and the opinions of the Court of Justice, the Dutch Order of Advocates (NovA) and the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) all uphold this principle. They do, however, have reservations about the outcome, the recovery and the consequences for those convicted. They rightly point to the risks of bureaucracy and setbacks in the collection process. Those risks are real. But that is precisely what payment arrangements and an individual approach are for. A revenue of EUR 47 million and a collection rate of 51. These are sufficient reasons not to throw the scheme overboard a priori. Will the Minister provide a basis for these estimates? There's too many bald chickens. You can't pick feathers from that. That is not a reproach to the poultry sector; it is a popular criticism of this bill. On the other hand, if collection fails in five years, the proposal provides for remission. The convict starts with a debt and that increases the chance of recidivism, there is another objection. This objection lends itself to relativization. Not every criminal behavior originates in debt and vice versa, not all debts lead to crime. Moreover, this objection ignores the possibilities offered by debt relief. It has been pointed out from several quarters that the contribution will be seen as punishment. My group considers everyone, condemned or not, very capable of distinguishing a fine from a fixed amount as a contribution to the costs. It is very common for costs to be charged, not only in the case of burdensome decisions but also in the case of favourable ones. Everyone has to deal with fees or administrative costs. The Court of Justice has warned that the court will dissuade the contribution from the penalty. That raises questions with my group. The documents clearly indicate what the intention is: co-pay and no additional penalty, a fixed amount, a contribution to the costs as a regulatory rule for each convicted person. Payment arrangements and remission are provided for for personal circumstances. Would the criminal court really ignore that? Is that counter empty? All arguments pro and contra are valid considerations. They can lead to all kinds of conclusions that vary enormously, from straightforward to square against. Still, we have to weigh and choose. For my group, two aspects are decisive. Firstly, that is the financial side of the matter. All arguments pro and contra are not on their own. They are in the context of financial reality. We are facing a major financial challenge. The Ministry of Security and Justice is not excluded. Legislative proposals relating to the co-payment of the costs of detention, increase of registry fees and adjustment of the legal aid financed do not produce any results at this stage. Then we'll have to look for other ways. My group believes that this proposal is a good way forward. Secondly, all arguments have pro and counter the character of predictions. It could be sis, but it could be sis. A warned person counts for two, so we shouldn't wait passively to see if things might go wrong. However, we are wise to actively monitor implementation and, if necessary, manage it properly. We assume that the Minister is willing to do so and that he will intervene if necessary. That is what we are counting on and we ask the Minister if he wishes to comment on this. To sum up, with recognition of the fundamental aspects and of possible implementation problems, my group is in favour of this proposal. We look forward with interest to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. This bill introduces its own contribution to convicts. The motivation seems to be twofold. On the one hand, the Minister considers it logical for the user to pay. In this case, that is the one who causes the criminal justice chain to do its job. On the other hand, the Minister is also clear that there is a financial task in the V and J budget. This has been reduced in the course of the budgetary procedure this autumn, and I agree with the repeal of the legislative proposal on the own contribution to stays in judicial establishments. In the opinion of the Christian Union Group, the bureaucracy would be sky high and the bill would have a bad impact on the chances of ex-convicts to make a good fresh start after detention. It is good that the cabinet has been persuaded after these concerns sounded wide, including in this house. I'll get back to the bill that's left. I must say that the concerns are not entirely gone. The Group of the Christian Union has them in three areas: principle, financial and last in terms of proportionality. The Minister will understand that I first deal with the fundamental concerns. The bill is, as I understand it, explicitly not intended as an addition to the penalty, but has an administrative character. Although that reasoning is legally certain to be put in place, the convicted party will not soon repeat that fact. After the detention or payment of the financial penalty follows the note of the Central Administration Office. In the written preparation, my group asked the Minister whether this would not have an impact on the penalty measurement. The Minister replied that this is not the case. However, he will have to observe with me that the Dutch criminal court has to take into account all the relevant circumstances of the case when imposing the sentence. Then this is one, for example, because the conviction leads to the claim of an own contribution, which cannot be foreseen to what extent it will be collected, but which is likely to cause stress. The pressure of a new claim will stand in the way of the re-socialization of a convicted person. Should the judge leave that entirely out of consideration? Or is this a typical example of the freedom that a judge has in his sentence? When I read back the Minister's answer in the Lower House, I see both lines of reasoning. I'm asking him for clarification. A second concern I have concerns about the successful return to the society of prisoners. The Minister always stresses that this is a small group compared to the whole of his legislative proposal, but it is still 23% of the cases where it is requested to make its own contribution. The studies of Utrecht University of Applied Sciences clearly show that there is a link between debt-taking and recidivism. This bill puts a new bill on the mat of an ex-con who has no income during detention and will then have to work hard to make something better out of life. Of course, that's very nice, but starting with a new debt doesn't help, not even to return to a family like this. The Minister makes these findings relative because of the tailor-made work that is then possible. But that customization is only offered when the bill is already there. Then it is not clear what arrangement will be made. This makes the proposal, in my group's view, an additional threshold for a successful return to society. Or does the Minister really remain of the opinion that this proposal will not have any effect at all on the recurrence? If so, I would like to hear his support and how he will follow this up in the coming years and report to this Chamber as well. In addition to fundamental doubts, my group also has doubts about the financial basis. It is clear that there is a financial incentive to get the Ministry's budget in order. This bill should contribute to this. In fact, I had hoped that with the advent of the Spring paper there would be a solid story about strengthening the whole budget, as requested in the motion by Mr Engels cum suis. The spring note is still under discussion in the House of Representatives, but frankly it does not seem to be the answer to the motion. I'm sure there'll be more to that at another time. I find it difficult to include the Minister in the figures that his bill now underpins and the results he expects. For example, it is expected that only 0.75% of all convicted persons who have received a decision from the CAK will object to it. So that's less than 1%. 5% of those objectors will then appeal. The case law and the legal profession come with different figures. Furthermore, no estimates have been made as to how this would result in a shift of costs. Think of the increase in funded legal aid or the additional burden it places on municipalities in the after-care of ex-convicts or in the provision of special assistance. It is therefore particularly important that these questions are not mentioned as points of attention in the evaluation of the legislative proposal. In this way, it remains unclear whether the budget gap that should be closed with it does not turn up as quickly as elsewhere. Why isn't this part of the evaluation? The inning will be customised if necessary, the Minister assures. How much customization is needed remains unclear. If anything has a negative effect on people, it's a debt or imminent debt. The promised customization takes time, and at least for five years, even after a convicted person has served his sentence, this bill remains in place. The Christian Union Group fears a bureaucratic swamp and that much more official support is needed than is currently being calculated, especially when it comes to ex-convicts. With the current estimates, the calculated yield will evaporate far too quickly. Finally, I have a few questions concerning proportionality. The Minister gives the motivation for this proposal that the user pays. It was already mentioned in the written preparation that the contribution to the costs of proceedings was removed exactly 120 years ago from the Criminal Code. Also ministers of the minister in recent decades saw no good in reintroducing it. I would ask the Minister to explain again what is different today than in the last 120 years that we are starting to abandon the principle that the State is financing the criminal justice chain from the general funds. The current argument that it is also more common in other areas of public trade and that some other countries have their own contribution to the costs of the proceedings is not convincing in itself. Moreover, what is called 'polluter pays' elsewhere is not fully consistent. The extent of the damage caused affects the amounts only to a limited extent. For all convicted persons, whether or not they have been victims, there is a need to contribute to helping victims, and there are more examples. In the long term, would the Minister consider it justified to introduce this underlying principle even more and more? Then why has the own contribution to the security of events never become a bill? Is the deletion of the bill that saw the personal contribution of detainees to stay in judicial establishments only deleted because it does not have a majority in this house? Or is the Minister also convinced, in substance, that this contribution is not the right way forward? I'd like a clarification. Paying a contribution of one's own for one's own costs makes sense at first hearing. In criminal law, however, no choice has been made in the last 120 years. With reason, because one did not want to bring a convicted person after payment of the sentence into worse conditions that stand in the way of a good return to society. Where there has been unlawful enrichment, there is other legislation which is clearly and rightly punitive, such as the picking-up legislation. We're not talking about this group right now, this really sees all the convicts. The government's motivation to start now with a form of own contribution is not convincing yet. That is precisely why my group is asking a number of questions to the Minister. I look forward to his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. For the record, I have the honour and pleasure of also expressing this contribution on behalf of the OSF and the Animal Party groups. I see that doesn't leave the Minister unmoved. Our groups have taken note of this bill with little pleasure. We are concerned about the extent to which a contribution to the costs of detection, prosecution and trial meets the necessary balance between our criminal law principles and varying criminal interests. We also doubt whether the proposed contribution scheme can be regarded as self-evident and generally accepted in the light of legal developments and the state of social awareness. Before I go into that further, I must first stress that our groups do not think it convincing in advance that apparently a reduction objective contained in the government agreement has been decisive for the development of this proposal. Of course, we also attach importance to putting public finances in order. But during the last debate on the budget of V and J last December, the First Chamber sent a clear message to the Minister by means of a motion bearing my name: the financial risks to justice cannot and must not be solved only within the existing budget, i.e. by means of a redeployment of resources and a disproportionate increase in revenue. The temptation to go straight through to the Spring Paper published last week is almost irresistible, but I am opposed to this temptation on the basis of the constitutional notion that our parliamentary system adopts a constitutional conditionality in the relationship between the two Chambers. An important starting point for the proposal is the idea that those who violate criminal law standards should make a financial contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings. Our groups, on their own account, cannot object in principle to this principle. Although the prosecution and prosecution of criminal offences is primarily a public task, this fact does not provide a basis for adopting a principle whereby the costs of criminal proceedings should be reimbursed entirely from the general means. The idea of an own contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings is also recognised as legitimate in a number of legal systems of the countries around us, according to comparative law. In the opinion of our groups, however, this certainly does not mean that this path can be taken in advance without any kind of reflection. That would indeed constitute a break with a system of criminal proceedings which has been carefully designed for many years. Not so long ago, in 2008, the government rejected the figure of the contribution scheme as unrealistic and did not see sufficient justification for this type of measure. However, the explanatory memorandum to this proposal contains a significant sentence in this context, which reflects the political will of the Cabinet and the Minister: "I think that perpetrators of criminal offences should make a greater contribution to this." This opinion is the obvious reason behind the proposed contribution arrangements: offenders of criminal law can and should be held responsible for the costs involved in criminal proceedings and should also contribute more to the costs of victim care. But our groups cannot rule out the fact that this proposal responds to social feelings of resentment towards those who are convicted and that it adds additional suffering. In this context, our groups urgently need a more rational and legally oriented justification for this proposal based mainly on political and financial reasons. It is not for nothing that important and relevant bodies, such as the Dutch Association for Justice (NVvR), the Council for Justice (RvdR) and the Dutch Order of Lawyers (NovA) express themselves very critically about the lack of objective and convincing support. And to speak with the Council of State, what problem or problems is this proposal a solution? I would like to invite the Minister to go into that again. A further question is that of the effects of this scheme. Many convicts have limited financial resources and are in a weak or weaker social position. During detention, existing sources of income, such as welfare payments, often disappear. In our view, the proposed own contribution increases the risk of recurrence as a result of an increase in the debt burden of convicted persons. In addition, the social problems of convicted persons or families of convicted persons may increase and, in conjunction with this, the process of re-socialisation and reintegration may be hampered. In fact, debt-taking is a recognised criminal factor and a recognised barrier to socialisation. The literature assumes that there is at least an indirect relationship between debt-taking and recidivism. The political groups of D66, OSF and Party for the Animals believe that it should be avoided at all times that prisoners build up debts or further debts and that a accumulation of revenue reduction and expenditure increase leads to disproportionate outcomes. In the written procedure, the Minister initially tried to make it plausible that these effects, i.e. more recurrent and collection problems, would be minor. The one in the letter to item No. 9 figures on the financial position of the target group show, according to the Minister, such a varied and nuanced picture that it cannot be said in advance that collection of the contribution is not possible, or that, by definition, situations arise where repayment is not feasible. There is a difference of opinion about this conclusion, and that is why our groups have a tendency to do so. I invite the Minister to clarify this point again. Our groups have not escaped the fact that the Minister has made some further adjustments to the legislative process along the way. In the reply, the Minister also announced that the flat-rate amounts for the own contribution to criminal proceedings and victim care would be substantially reduced. These measures are a step in the right direction, as they address the fear that those convicted as a result of the obligation to contribute will find themselves in a financial and socially hopeless position. However, these adjustments do not alter the fact that there is still a need, for example, for the nature of the measure. With reference to the detailed exchange of views on this subject in the written preparation, I would like to admit to the Minister that the proposed contribution scheme cannot legally be regarded as a punishment. In this sense, the proposed measure cannot therefore be formally granted a punitive character. However, to what extent, in our opinion, this administrative figure will not actually be interpreted as an additional penalty. In that light, it is avenged that the court has no formal role in imposing an administrative contribution scheme. Moreover, it is not excluded that, when imposing a penalty, the court takes consciously or unconsciously into account the own contribution to be imposed. Among other things, the Council of Justice, the Netherlands Association for Justice and the Council of State have pointed out this risk. The Minister has also acknowledged that this possibility is not illusory. However, he dismissed this point by saying that this simply cannot be the intention. Administrative charges are not related to the offence, the perpetrator or the circumstances of the case. For this reason, he considers that the contribution is neither part of a punishment nor a penalty factor. The difficulty in this reasoning is that an administrative charge can be repressive in circumstances. In the further reply, the Minister also gave detailed consideration to the question of when, in the context of Art. 6 ECHR is or may be a criminal charge. However, taking into account the nature, purpose and gravity or level of the own contribution, it cannot be excluded that both the judge and the defendant interpret the contribution in circumstances as an additional penalty. A second problem is that the court should take into account all the relevant circumstances of the case when imposing penalties. That has just been pointed out. To this end, an own contribution to the costs of the criminal proceedings can also be counted. To what extent will judges then consider this element in determining the degree of punishment? I would like to ask the Minister to reflect once again on the task and position of the judge and the perception of the defendant. The Council of State has also raised an interesting regulatory issue. The Council noted that a number of essential elements of the proposed scheme were not included in the relevant legislative proposal, but were delegated to the level of a General Management Measure. The Council considers this curious, now that the explanatory statement describes very precisely what these delegated rules will consist of. These are detailed rules on the time limit, the amount and the maximum amount of the contributions under the recovery procedure. In the Council's view, the government has not sufficiently substantiated why it is necessary to adopt these rules at a lower level. The groups of D66, OSF and the Animal Party also consider that the legislator should be very reluctant to transfer regulatory powers to the government. We also believe that the delegation for the adoption of generally binding rules should be as specific and precise as possible. It is not for nothing that these notions are included in the Rules of Procedure. From the point of view of quality and care of regulation and in the light of democratic legitimacy and the legal function of formal legislation, it should be assumed that the legislator itself sets binding standards as many citizens as possible. This is all the more true in the case of far-reaching measures. Of course, the need for some administrative flexibility may require opportunities for customisation in the adoption of generally binding rules. However, an excessive tendency towards virtually empty framework legislation and substantial, substantive rule-counting by the government does not fit into the constitutional framework conditions of proper legislation. The Minister reiterates in the reply, taken as it stands, that the delegation of amounts to be imposed through an AMvB is not unusual. He also states that the main rules are included in the formal law, including the General Administrative Law Act. This applies, for example, to the procedure for the recovery of the contribution by or on behalf of the Minister, as well as to the remission and determination of a contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care. For these elements, an explicit legal basis is provided for the rules to be included in the AMvB. Our groups are not convinced that it is necessary, from the point of view of care and flexibility in the implementation of the scheme, to create the necessary policy space through an AMvB, so that the financial position of the contributor can be taken into account as far as possible. I would like to ask the Minister to explain this further. Should the bill be accepted, for which I have no indication so far, it would be good if the Minister would also send the intended annual monitor of the collection process to this Chamber. I assume that the Minister intends to set out the initial willingness to do so in a commitment so that we can monitor it here in turn through the unsavory commitment register. In conclusion. The groups of D66, OSF and the Animal Party have not escaped the fact that the bill has been amended in the right direction in the course of the process. The Minister deserves credit for that. I have to say, however, that this proposal is not convincing at its core. However, I would like to wait until the Minister has replied by giving a final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet likes to insist that security is the top priority. No effort is spared to protect society from insecurity and crime. At least that is the impression that this cabinet prefers to give. It is precisely in this context that the proposal to impose on convicted persons a contribution of their own to the costs of criminal proceedings and to call the care of victims curious. If we look only at the prisoners and those made available, we see that there are almost three-quarters of the debt. This debt continues to grow during detention because the income is falling. This bill will further increase this debt and thus worsen the starting position after detention. Resocialisation is therefore not served by this proposal. If this proposal was intended to prevent criminal offences, the chance of counter-effect would not be imaginary. On the basis of this concern, my group welcomes the fact that the own contribution to the cost of staying in a judicial establishment has been reduced and the fee for the contribution to criminal proceedings and victim care has been reduced in the proposal. As a result, the maximum amount for convicted persons has become much clearer. However, my group's reservations of principle remain. Criminal law is an essential part of the rule of law and allows the public authorities to take enforcement and sanctioning action when rules have been broken. Criminal law and criminal proceedings provide the government with numerous instruments and powers to punish criminal conduct, with a view to prevention and retaliation. However, the State cannot use its monopoly position for other purposes. In the government's view, partly charging the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care after a conviction serves merely a financial purpose, on the grounds that it is reasonable for a convicted person to contribute to the costs he has incurred for his search, prosecution and trial. My group has difficulty with that. The calculation of an own contribution to administrative procedures is generally fair in procedures where citizens themselves have the control and benefit, such as fees for certain rights or provisions. In criminal law, however, there is no such direction or advantage. Application of criminal law is government action in response to behavior. It is up to the court to determine to what extent the citizen concerned is responsible for this and what punishment is appropriate. This legislative proposal even provides that even if the judge waives the imposition of a penalty because of the minor gravity of the offence, the personality of the offender or the circumstances under which the offence was committed, the offender will be charged with the full administrative charge. The reasoning that it is reasonable to charge costs caused by the perpetrator certainly does not seem to go along with this. After all, the criminal court itself believes that the offence cannot be attributed to the offender. Then how can it be reasonable to pass on these costs? Is it not also true that the imposition of a fine already compensates for some of the judicial costs? It is not for nothing that the system of fines is often perceived as a milk cow for the state treasury. A fine is still proportionate to the criminality of the conduct, but it is not the case with its own contribution. Investigation, prosecution and trial shall be public authority. Citizens who are subject to criminal law are already affected by this by restrictions on their freedom or on their property position. Mrs Bikker has already indicated that criminal law has so far been aimed at preventing people from being placed in an even worse position. They're getting rid of it now. Punishment of liberty, conduct instructions, seizure, fines: all these measures and penalties are directly linked to criminal behaviour and are intended to make society safer, whether special or general prevention or retaliation. An important feature is that it is up to the judge, and to some extent to the prosecution, to determine the penalty and the amount of the fine. However, the proposed own contribution is at the top of the sentence imposed. Since the levy is an extra disadvantage to the convicted person, it is very difficult not to regard his own contribution as a punitive measure. That's what lawyers, judges and probation do. For this reason, judges and the Council of State assume that the court takes account of its own contribution in the imposition of penalties. About the only person in the country who does not regard its own contribution as an additional punishment seems to be the government at the moment. It does not think it is more than an administrative charge. The European Court of Human Rights has also ruled that an administrative charge can be a criminal sanction within the meaning of Article 6 of the ECHR. The gravity of a levy can exceed the financial objective and can therefore be criminal in nature. In that case, there is an unacceptable cumulation of an administrative sanction and a criminal sanction for the same fact. The question now is, of course, how to explain this criterion. When is a tax so heavy that it becomes repressive? The SP Group points out in the written round that in the case of traffic fines up to €375, the administrative charge amounts to 50% of the fine, and above that even 100%. In the case of a fine of €300 imposed by the police judge, the administrative charge is three times higher, namely €1.075. The levy clearly increases the burden of the perpetrator considerably. How can the Minister maintain that the levy is not repressive? If that were to be admitted, we could only conclude that cumulation would lead to a violation of the ne-bis-in-idem principle. Although the use of lump sums is easier to implement, it also limits the relationship between the costs actually incurred and the own contribution. It is based on a contribution to criminal proceedings and victim care, but in far from all criminal cases there is a victim. Think again, for example, of traffic fines, where there is often no victim. Does not the absence of a relationship between the costs incurred and the own contribution also reinforce the conclusion that we should speak of a sanction rather than an administrative charge? Citizens affected by this tax will in any case see it as a sanction. They may formally object and appeal, but according to the Minister, the judge must reject such an appeal. Is there an effective remedy? Do courts have the opportunity to assess the nature of the levy and to check it against the case-law of the ECHR? Is that even a check-and-balance thing? I'd like a response from the Minister. Moreover, the reduction in the lump sum and the exclusion of accommodation costs do not prevent those convicted who are in a financial weak position from being more difficult to re-socialise properly and not to fall into their old behaviour. Deterioration of the debt position creates more problems in the private situation and, above all, pushes attention to linking up the ends rather than to building a long-term perspective. A person with a large debt will be more receptive to short-term diversions and thus less attention to the long-term perspective of a stable future. Folkert Jensma quoted last Saturday in NRC economists from Harvard University who argue how much trouble people with a big debt have in making the right choices. In our opinion, these risks are even greater in the case of ex-delinquents, if their punitive behaviour results from unstable factors or a vulnerable personality. Therefore, the demand for social costs remains legitimate and relevant. I'd like a response from the Minister. Moreover, the increase in the financial situation of convicted persons does not make it unthinkable that special assistance should be sought more frequently. This also applies to the legal aid financed when people object and appeal, and of course to the costs of appeal and appeal itself. These costs are not included in the cost-benefit analysis. Although my group is pleased that the legislative proposal has become less far-reaching, it raises the question whether the estimated revenue outweighs the costs I have just mentioned and the costs associated with the calculations and collections. If social costs are taken into account, the balance, in my group's view, is certainly negative. In short, our doubts have not been overcome by the softening of the proposed measures. We think it is fundamentally wrong to allow people to contribute to their criminal conviction. We see a possible conflict with the ne-bis-in-idem principle. We fear the individual and social consequences of our own contribution. We also believe that, on balance, the government will have little financial advantage. We wonder if the Minister can convince us otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman. This bill is expected to cost more than it will cost. The Netherlands already has more than 3.4 million Dutch people with risky or problematic debts. This bill raises the debt burden again. The Netherlands has grown by investing in people. This bill achieves the opposite. It leads to high collection costs, limited collection costs, an increase in debt problems, an increase in the use of debt relief, an increase in the complexity of debt relief, loss of labour productivity and an increase in social problems due to debt problems. This in turn results in an additional call for aid, as well as an increased risk of recurrence. The subsequent criminal proceedings will again involve costs. The bureaucracy will also increase because all the above separate points of contact are linked. These costs and this loss of tax revenue were not included in this bill. On 24 May 2016, only two weeks ago, Secretary of State Klijnsma and Minister Van der Steur argued that debts have a significant impact on the debtor's and his family's lives: "Not only because the disposable income is often reduced to a minimum level for a long time, but also because financial instability causes continuous stress that affects both finding or maintaining work and health." This bill seems to run counter to what the Minister has claimed. On 5 April 2016, the MOgroep, VNG, Divosa and the NVVK presented a petition to the Dutch House of Representatives stating that the Empire should put its hands into its own bosom and consider its role in the emergence of debts if these are caused by the present bill. The SP Group is very critical of this bill and still has a number of questions for the Minister. I will explain my questions on the basis of the following five elements: the polluter pays; the now repealed law in Great Britain; the costs and benefits, and the transfer; collection by the CAK and municipal debt relief; the evaluation. First of all, the polluter pays. Could the Minister explain why the government is applying the "polluter pays" principle in this case and not, for example, the police commitment to football matches? As regards parliamentary questions on the passing on of police charges at football matches, the Minister replied earlier: "I believe that maintaining public order is a public task and that the costs associated with it should be borne by the government." I mean, isn't criminal justice also a government task? Does it not, however, infringe the principle of arbitrariness and violate the principle of equality? I'd like a response from the Minister. Doesn't this bill give rise to legal uncertainty, because what comes next? What kind of government task will be passed on after this? Is the government going to pass on the costs of the tax authorities, for example? Can the Minister explain why he has chosen to impose a standard charge on convicted persons in addition to their sentence, while there are already sufficient possibilities to impose fines and damages in proportion to the crime and financial resources of a convicted person? Is this not contrary to the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity? I'd like a response from the Minister. Then I come to the now repealed law in Great Britain. As of 24 December 2015, the criminal courts charge has been deleted by the British. It was introduced in April 2015. I am therefore surprised that the Minister continues this plan in the Netherlands. In the response of 11 December 2015, the mid-term review of the British was dismissed by the Minister as being based on anecdotal material. Apparently there was more to it than that. The Minister writes in the reply that there is criticism in England because, in the case of minor offences, the level of the criminal court's charge is disproportionate to the sentence imposed. The criminal court charge is in some cases many times higher than the fine imposed. The report mentions the example of a woman who stole a Mars bar of 75 pence and who then has to pay a fine of 73 pounds, a criminal court charge of 150 pounds, a charge of 85 pounds, a victim contribution of 20 pounds and a compensation of 75 pounds. According to the Minister, such a situation will not arise in the Netherlands because there is no such accumulation of costs in the scheme proposed here. There is one contribution for both criminal proceedings and victim care. I do not think that this statement by the Minister is correct. If the D.A. decides to subpoena this woman in the Netherlands, the woman will receive a personal contribution of €1.075 or €2,000, depending on which court the D.A. subpoenas her. In addition, the shopkeeper may lodge an action against the injured party. So it's gonna be an expensive Mars bar. Women can be even worse off in the Netherlands than in the old situation in Britain. Furthermore, in the reply, the Minister states that, in addition, for such minor offences, in so far as the principle of opportunity does not exclude prosecution, the possibility of imposing, for example, a criminal order is open. The contribution to criminal proceedings and victim care shall not apply to criminal decisions. However, the Minister does not write that this does not happen in the event of a recurrence, which will indeed be imposed on a small fact such as this one's own contributions. Furthermore, according to the Minister, in so far as minor offences are submitted to the canton court, the amount of the fine to be imposed does not exceed 50% of the fine imposed, with a fine of up to €375. For this reason, too, it would not be easy for the United Kingdom, unlike in England, to see that the contribution to be imposed in the case of minor offences is many times higher than the financial penalty imposed. However, only infringements can be committed in the case of the canton court. Offences, however small, remain criminal offences and can only be presented to the police judge or the multiple chamber, where own contributions of €1.075 and €2,000 will apply. Theft, however small, remains a crime and cannot suddenly become an offence and be eliminated as such. In Britain, the law has been repealed after great criticism and judges have been elected to determine, according to the circumstances of the case, what the cost of compensation should be. Why doesn't the Minister choose to have the costs of criminal proceedings determined before the courts, as in England, so that personal circumstances can be taken into account in advance? After all, this is already happening in Dutch civil and administrative law. With his legislative proposal, the Minister has excluded the imposition of his own contribution from the field of vision of the judge who is to impose the penalty. In Britain, more than 100 magistrates have resigned because they could not live with this law. If the exercise of a public function is excluded, as is the case with this bill, because the judges are unlikely to be able to get it out of their mouths, isn't that much worse? I'd like the Minister's response. Then I come to the costs and benefits and the pass-through. The Minister promises that this bill will make the Justice budget 47 million. In Britain, these promises were far from being met. On what does the Minister base himself on the fact that he is going to get this amount? Did the Minister have this billed? The documents do not show what this bill entails in terms of social costs and how much money is going to be lost through the bill. The response shall mention only the collection costs of the CAK. Has the Minister had this bill passed through the CPB and if so, what were the results of this transfer? I would like a response from the Minister, and I would ask the Minister to submit the possible pass-through. If not, can the Minister promise that he will still have a credit transfer carried out by the CPB? Has a cost-benefit analysis been made by the Minister? If so, can he discuss it? If not, can the Minister promise that he will still have a cost-benefit analysis carried out by the CPB? The next point is: why collection by the CAK and municipal debt relief? Has there been any research into the impact of this bill on the debt position of convicted persons? If so, what are the results and can the Minister provide these results? If not, can the Minister promise that he will continue to investigate this matter? I ask this because the investigation mentioned in the reply shows that nearly three quarters of the prisoners were in debt prior to detention. It was just mentioned by Mrs. Strik. Since 1990, the Ministry of Justice has had the collection carried out by the Central Judicial Collection Office. Could the Minister explain why he is now proposing a split? If I understand correctly, he proposes that the collection of the fines imposed be carried out by the CJIB and the collection of the own contributions by the CAK. Why doesn't he keep the collection task in one hand? The MOGroup and the national body Social Council work express their concern on this point, because it is difficult for the person concerned to keep an overview of the various debts at all. It is confusing when two collection services start collecting debts which, at least in the eyes of the person concerned, are related. On the website of the CAK, I read that in the context of the preparation of the legislative proposal, the CAK focuses on the creation of an effective message exchange and the organisation of an efficient front and back office. However, I also note from the text on the website that the CAK still needs to set up an infrastructure, which has been in place at the CJIB since 1990. Where does the Minister base the claim that the CAK can do this better than the CJIB? What else is the CAK gonna do? Isn't that where they work with a front and back office? Payment arrangements can also be agreed with the CJIB and the Recofa guidelines are also being worked on. This also applies to other collection services. The problem is that the problem cases don't respond to the letters, because they can't do it anymore, and it gets out of hand. This won't be any different at the CAK. The problems will then end up on the board of municipal debt relief. In the reply, the Minister states that the convicted person himself must state that he has insufficient payment possibilities. In doing so, the Minister assumes the self-reliance of the citizen. However, citizens are not always self-reliant. At the same time, the government is often the cause of problematic debt. In the report published on 11 May 2016, the National Ombudsman writes about this: "Because governments often place themselves in a preferential position vis-à-vis other creditors, and therefore have priority over other creditors in the collection of debts........................................................................................................................................................... Does the government share this view? In order to address the debt problem, the MOgroup, the VNG, Divosa and the NVVK request that the preferential position and special collection powers of the Empire and other public institutions be limited or removed. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State of SZW announced in the AO on poverty and debt of 14 April 2016 in the Dutch Parliament that it would not do anything with this request at this time. Could the Minister explain that? I'll come back to the collection issue. If a person does not pay his own contribution and does not respond, can the case be handed over by the CAK to the prosecution to hold the person concerned hostage? How is supervision of the CAK arranged? I'd like the Minister's response. Then the evaluation. It's scheduled for five years. Given that within a year the criminal courts charge in England has been abolished, the SP Group is deeply concerned about this. Will the Minister undertake a mid-term review after at least one year, so that it can be adjusted if necessary? I'm curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal that we are discussing here today is intended to ensure that those convicted and made available pay a contribution to the costs of detection, prosecution and trial, in the form of a fixed lump sum. The basic principle of the bill is that those who break the law and provoke a criminal response must be held responsible for the costs, at least part of them, borne by society in criminal proceedings. It is no longer self-evident that these costs are borne by society alone or primarily, according to the explanatory statement. The proposal for an own contribution to stay in a judicial establishment submitted to this Chamber at the same time as this legislative proposal has been withdrawn by the government, following the concerns and criticisms expressed in the preliminary report of the Committee on Security and Justice. The present legislative proposal has been maintained, albeit the flat-rate amounts mentioned in the explanatory memorandum have been reduced. The response shows that the amounts involved are the following: criminal justice contribution €375; criminal justice contribution €1.075; criminal justice contribution €1.975. The contribution to a criminal case before the canton court shall be moderated if a fine is imposed below the amount of €375. In that case, the own contribution shall be 50% of the fine. These amounts are not included in the legislative proposal, but will be determined by General Measure of Management. The draft law is designed in such a way that the amount due to the person concerned comes directly from the AMvB. The own contribution is therefore not imposed by the court, it is an administrative debt and an administrative procedure, to which the General Administrative Law applies. The PvdA Group welcomes the repeal of the legislative proposal's own contribution for residence in a judicial establishment. A positive step is to reduce the level of the lump sums envisaged by the present legislative proposal. But this is without prejudice to the fact that we still have concerns, and therefore questions, about this bill. The first point I would like to raise is that the legislative proposal also aims at making available and making its own contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings. The PvdA Group would like to hear the Minister's arguments. I would add that, on the basis of the answers to our written questions, we realise that the Minister considers that the own contribution envisaged by this bill is not punitive. However, we do not understand why, in the Minister's reasoning, those convicted who are not or are severely reduced in allocation should pay the proposed own contribution. A more general point on which my group is concerned concerns the social problems which may arise from the introduction of its own contribution. On many sides, including those of the Council of State and the Dutch Order of Lawyers, the government has been reminded of this. As a result of the proposed own contribution, the debt problem of convicted persons already in debt will continue to increase. This affects not only the convicted but also his environment, such as a possible partner and any children. In addition, debt increases the risk of recidivism, with all the consequences for victims and society. In its written questions to the government, the PvdA Group has drawn attention to these risks. In response, the Government has argued that provision has been made to take account of the financial situation of the person liable for contributions, so that it can be prevented from creating other social problems and thus a risk of resocialisation. The provisions in question are: the possibility to make a payment arrangement or to defer payment; the carrying out of an income and capital test; the periodic monitoring of changes in the payment options of the paying agent and, finally, the possibility of remission, in particular in the event that the paying agent has already repaid according to its assets for five years and that there is still an amount to be paid. On the one hand, the PvdA Group appreciates the provisions that have been made, but on the other hand it also has doubts as to whether they will provide real relief for contributors who are already suffering from serious debt problems. In this case, there will usually be multiple creditors and it will be a huge puzzle to coordinate the demands of the various creditors in such a way that they actually remain free of attachment. Moreover, it is a well-known phenomenon that in many cases people with serious debt problems no longer deal rationally with their debts and their increase, but rather, caught by feelings of stress, fear and panic, close as much as possible to their problems and, for example, no longer open their mail, let alone apply for payment arrangements or remission. I would ask the Minister to respond to the above and to explain the reasons why he believes that in practice the provisions mentioned will really prevent the dreaded social problems. If the Minister expects so much from these provisions, we would also like to hear from him why he chose to regulate the detailed rules for the collection procedure, as well as the level of his own contribution, with General Measure of Management rather than by law in a formal sense. It is striking that in the period from 1813 to 1896 Dutch criminal law had a contribution scheme for the costs of criminal proceedings. In the reply, the Government set out the objections which led to the abolition of that system. According to the Government, those objections included the fact that, partly because of the large and difficult administration and the costs of collection, the revenues from the scheme were hardly relevant. And that is precisely what the government has been warned about from many quarters when it comes to the legislative proposal before us. The Council of State has pointed out that the collection of own contributions will in many cases be problematic and that costs will also increase due to increased recourse to assistance and additional appeal procedures. The Minister is more optimistic about this, according to the reply, but the question is whether that is the right optimism. If we look only at all the provisions that the response says need to be made in order to take account of the financial situation of the contributor, my group has the impression of a difficult recovery process, a great deal of red tape and ultimately, in many cases, and perhaps after a great deal of social misery, remission. I ask the Minister to respond in detail and in real terms to the above. We look forward to the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u9	Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group has taken note of the legislative proposal before us today. That is because the bill has been so greatly weakened in the hope of guiding it through the First Chamber, that it is hardly recognizable to my party. It's like the Minister promised us a new car, one with far too few horsepower for us. Under the guise "better than nothing" we have agreed to the proposal in the Lower House, but now he comes into this Chamber today with only one set of hubcaps. That's how we know the VVD. It is said to be a batch of "law and order," but it is a lot of bleat and little wool. To get and stay on the government plush, all so-called principles go effortlessly overboard. We should not be surprised, therefore, that the Minister has come to beg for our support today, but we are all the more frustrated. In most cases, breaking the law is a conscious choice of the offender. It is a choice that affects society as a whole, and in particular financial consequences. Before that individual choice to violate the law or commit a crime has led to a conviction, a whole battalion of officials and other officials has already been deployed. First of all, there are investigators and agents who have dealt with any declarations, heard witnesses, gathered evidence, and so on. Then there are lawyers, whether added or not at the expense of the State, the prosecutor who is to deal with the case, the registry who has to schedule a trial and, of course, the judges who have to rule. Often a few interpreters are needed. If there is detention, there are prison guards and prison guards involved, and the ladies and gentlemen of the DJI who take care of the transport from the detention centre to the court. Psychologists, psychiatrists, parole officers and a lot of other aid workers are concerned with the rehabilitation of convicted persons. For the PVV, it is perfectly logical and acceptable to allow prisoners and convicted persons to contribute to these costs. Our group in the House of Representatives has been trying to get this settled since 2007. We have tabled many motions for resolutions to that effect. The original bill, then combined with the personal contribution of detainees to their stay in detention, did not go far enough for the PVV. For example, we are opposed to an exception for minors and adolescents and we believe that a person convicted of two offences should also pay the contribution twice. We would also have liked the Minister to have built in a guarantee that his own contribution would not lead to lighter penalties. The experiences in the United Kingdom mentioned by the Minister in his reply do not predict much good in this sense. My group fears that judges will use their own contribution as an excuse for imposing lower penalties. I ask the Minister whether he shares that fear and whether he is prepared to make sure that this does not happen and to take action if necessary. The PVV regrets that the Minister has added so much water to the wine. This "law and order" minister has been persuaded by the left-wing parties who actually find convicted people pathetic victims of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u10	Mrs. Wezel, why don't you grab a wire? And press the button. And hold him down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u11	Do I hear the PVV say here that all the people in her constituency who drove too fast by car still have to pay €375 on top of the fine? Is that the PVV's point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u12	The position of the PVV is that if you break the law and therefore charge society with costs, you have to pay for it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u13	So all the fines just add up to $375? Is that the PVV's point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u14	For all the convicts who cause costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u15	So all people who drive more than 30 km/h can get €375 from the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u16	Mrs Wezel has heard my answer twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u17	I am encouraged to ask a question about an earlier block. Mrs Van Weerdenburg invited the Minister to make a proposal on how he will monitor whether judges will deal with the application of this scheme in the direction desired by the PVV. Does Mrs Van Weerdenburg have any idea where the minister should look, because of the trias politician, in order to intervene in the independent judge as a member of the executive? Does she think this is possible? And if so, how should we and can we arrange it? Is that even a realistic proposal? That's actually my question. The answer is, of course, no, but Mrs Van Weerdenburg can also answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u18	It is very kind of Mr Engels to allow me to reply as well. Judges who have to judge such a case should only consider the circumstances that have to do with the offence and not something that has nothing to do with it and which is the responsibility of the offender.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u19	I understand Mrs Van Weerdenburg says that. That's her opinion. However, it invites the Minister to come up with a story to prevent judges who are independent from reaching independent judgements. What she is actually advocating is that the executive should intervene in the work of the judge. I am curious whether she realises that this is a very difficult proposal in the context of the separation of powers and therefore also within the framework of the principles of the rule of law. Does she really think it would be a good idea for a minister to actually interfere with justice? We have very different mechanisms for that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u20	That's not what I'm asking. I am not asking the Minister to send a letter to all the judges saying that they should not take this into account. What I have asked is whether he sees an opportunity to build in a guarantee that will ensure that this own contribution will not lead to lighter penalties. The minister says it's administrative costs. That is already a step in the right direction, but we are not confident. That's what I wanted to say. The VVD Minister of Law and Order has been persuaded by the left-wing parties, who find convicted people actually pathetic victims of society. Because, well, they're all in debt and it was inevitable that they would end up in crime. And well, as a society, we should not ask for our own contribution to the costs they themselves have caused. Because then they will never get out of debt at all, their socialisation could be seriously compromised and the chance of relapse would almost become one hundred percent. I would like those parties to be equally concerned about the resocialisation of the victims of crime and the damage done to them and society. Older people are obliged to pay a contribution to their stay in a health care institution. A normal, hardworking citizen who abides by the law also pays his rent or mortgage. However, inmates, convicted criminals and asylum seekers get free room and board. My party is very opposed to this and therefore regrets the repeal of the bill on the contribution of detainees to a prison or TBs clinic. The Netherlands is now a lazy country for criminals. For starters, the odds are already incredibly low. If you are still being tracked down by the police, brought to justice and sentenced to unconditional detention, you are in most cases in a cell that is more comfortable than most student rooms in the Netherlands. Oh, and before one of my colleagues comes forward to say that detention is no fun, because you can't just go outside if you want to and you can't go and stand where you want, I just want to say that this is often the case for elderly people in today's nursing homes. They can't just go out if they want to, because the staff has been cut off. Too scandalous for words. At least inmates still have the right to be aired. I'm rounding up. This bill in this form is so incredibly undressed by this minister, that the PVV really wonders what use it still has and whether it will be useful. In any case, we are looking forward to the Minister's answers, in particular to that last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u21	I would ask Members whether one of them would like to speak in the first term. I note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-eerstekamer-11.u22	I shall suspend the sitting for a single minute in anticipation of the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
