ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u1	I would like to welcome the two ministers in trade union K, namely the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs. The first-term speaking time is set at five minutes. That may be shorter, but it certainly shouldn't be any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to European economic governance, the Netherlands has to deliver lists to Brussels. A number of people in Brussels who we do not know, who have not been elected and who do not really know what is going on in the Netherlands, read these lists and then make recommendations. These are recommendations that we must implement. This is being done on many issues, including those that should fall within the scope of national competence as far as the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is concerned. Today there are two programmes ahead of us. The SP Group would have preferred these programmes not to exist at all. We do not want dictatorships imposed from Brussels by unelected technocrats. With the outcome of the Ukraine referendum in mind, I would like to say to the ministers that it is precisely this kind of policy that undermines support for the European project. This applies equally to the confidence in national politics, which is being put at the centre of Brussels. To do business and do things better, the cabinet doesn't need Europe, does it? Why doesn't the Cabinet itself do what needs to be done? Let me address three issues: first the need to invest, then the importance of research and innovation and finally the growing poverty in the Netherlands. The cabinet lacks the will to make public investments now that private investment is lagging behind. The government must bring domestic spending more into line with our export capacity. Despite the low natural gas revenues, the trade surplus is still 9.1%. What is the government going to do to reduce this surplus? Does the Minister share the view of the SP Group that if the private sector does not invest sufficiently, inflation is low and wage developments are lagging behind, the government has an additional task to pursue the economy in a sustainable way? If so, why do we see so little of that? Public investment is urgently needed. How does the Minister encourage companies to eliminate the Dutch savings surplus other than just along the tax route? It is remarkable that the European Commission, too, now sees the large presence of multinationals in the Netherlands as a reason for the high surplus because of the favourable locational environment for multinationals. What is the Minister's response to this? Then research and innovation. Total expenditure on research and innovation remains at 2% of gross domestic product. That is below the European average. Research at universities, including basic research, is thus increasingly subject to the business agenda. Of course public-private partnerships can work out well. Of course, it often works out well. However, direct public investment is at least as important, precisely when it comes to basic research. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that R &amp; D expenditure is maintained and that basic research can continue to be fundamental without being subjected to market whims? In its report Towards a learning economy, the Scientific Council for Government Policy (WRR) also calls for more investment in continuing education and basic research. What is the government going to do to achieve the standard we have set, namely that 2.5% of gross domestic product? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Finally, poverty and jobs. Poverty in the Netherlands is rising and social exclusion is increasing. 400,000 children in the Netherlands live in poverty. That is, of course, a big problem, but the cabinet seems to be waving it away with ease or statistically brushing it away. In fact, if there are poverty figures that the Minister does fear, I wonder. Can he tell us what measures to combat poverty are successful and which are not? In addition, we see that poverty is not shrinking, but growing. What, for example, is the Netherlands doing to reduce the huge private debtenberg? Vulnerable groups, such as migrants, young adults, 55+ and single-parent families, are at greatest risk of poverty and social exclusion. The cabinet says that work is the best way out of poverty and that work must pay off, but that is precisely where the problem lies. The number of jobs is increasing, but so are the number of people looking for a job. In addition, small flex- and zzp-jobs are mainly added. How does the Minister explain that and what is he going to do about it? Finally, I would like to ask the following question. When is the Minister actually going to do what he promised, namely to turn on the job machine? I would like to hear a clear answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u3	Mr. Chairman. We know the Minister of Finance as someone who has a high regard for budgetary discipline. He is supported by the Council of State, which, as a "budget watchdog," is critical of the cabinet. The picture presented by the cabinet is quite positive, but at the same time I see a critical budgetary authority, a critical Council of State. The question is whether, as in previous years, the Minister of Finance will continue to maintain budgetary discipline. Because that will be quite a task, given the figures for this year and next year. Indeed, if the Minister wants to comply with these budgetary rules, an additional EUR 1.7 billion would have to be spent this year or less, and EUR 2.7 billion in 2017. In addition, an additional EUR 1.2 billion must be raised on the revenue side. This combined sum of EUR 5.5 billion puts the 5 billion relief that the cabinet has distributed to the working Netherlands in a different light. Where workers in particular benefit from the tax reduction this year, there may be a need for additional savings next year. However, from the plans that the cabinet intends to send to Brussels, I cannot see where the cabinet intends to get this money from. My group sees that, on the other hand, there are areas in which money needs to be spent. I am thinking here of the additional resources for the police and the criminal justice chain, which the Minister for Security and Justice has promised. But I am also thinking here of the cuts in long-term care... I'm hearing some mumbling right now from V-K. Ah, it's about the word "assigned." In the budget of V and J, the Minister of V and J has promised to look at additional resources. "Look at" I now hear from Vak-K. Well... The debate with the ministers has already begun, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u4	Yeah, it's tempting, but we're not gonna do that anyway. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u5	No, I get that. I have also heard that last week the Secretary of State at VWS said that he is going to look again at whether the possible cuts in long-term care can be reduced. Furthermore, we cannot rule out the need for additional funding for the reception of asylum seekers, nor should a new gas decision be taken this year, which could lead to even lower gas benefits next year. I would therefore like to ask the Ministers a number of questions. In the Stability Programme, the Cabinet states that the Netherlands is fully committed to the European budgetary arrangements and that it wants to maintain the expenditure and revenue frameworks. Does this mean that this year's cabinet wants to spend less or cut EUR 1.7 billion and EUR 2.7 billion next year? Can the Minister for Finance outline how the cabinet intends to complete this task? In previous years there were already lists in April when of course we were on the penalty booth, but now we have no idea. For 2016 a gas extraction of 27 billion in Groningen is included. As far as I'm concerned, that should be even lower. What level does the government take into account in the Stability Programme? We know that in recent years there has been a double-minded attitude in Brussels with regard to budgetary discipline. The Commission is threatening to take action, but in the end it is not going to go on. Think of France. We have just received a report from the Court of Auditors, which states that the budgetary rules are not applied consistently in all countries, while there is no transparency. That sounds like an accusation to me. How does the cabinet intend to act if the Commission, like the Council of State, is critical of failing to pass the balance test? If it is up to the cabinet, there will be another indicator as soon as possible, because it is difficult to steer on balance, I heard the Minister of Finance say. But isn't it a bit transparent, now that the Netherlands apparently has trouble meeting the structural balance, that discussion is about to open? What alternatives does the Minister see for himself? Does he think he can get support for this in Europe? I would also point out the macroeconomic imbalances. This year, the Commission is again pointing the finger at the high level of private debt in the Netherlands. I too have genuine concerns about this. I have asked the Minister's attention on several occasions for this and I will continue to do so. Because although public debt is falling, private debt continues to rise year after year. This high private debt ratio is a ticking time bomb, also states the President of DNB, Mr Knot. Many property owners have taken out their mortgage at low interest rates, and are not calculated on high interest rates. Mr Knot therefore called for a stress test. Is the Minister prepared to look into that? If so, how does he intend to develop this test? My final point concerns DNB's report on the carbon bubble. Has the Cabinet taken note of this? If so, what is it going to do to break that bubble and thereby reduce the risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u6	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, which the Cabinet intends to send to the Commission, in an economic context which is much better than a few years ago. Employment is rising, economic growth expectations are better, housing markets are much better. There is still a lot to do in the financial sector, but a lot has already been done. In my term, I will pay particular attention to the structural improvements of the Dutch economy, starting with education. The Millions Note, which sent this cabinet to the Chamber for this year, contains a chapter that has been taken from my heart: equal opportunities. Those who have followed the news over the past few weeks have reason to worry about it. If you see that the Cito score in children of low-educated parents leads to different advice than in children of high-educated parents, you understand that apparently not the Cito test is leading, but apparently also the educational level of parents. You see, if you want to go to MBO school, not everyone does. Not everyone who wants to attend higher education can do so in practice either. That's not good. If you want to be a strong economy, you have to be able to use all the talents that exist in society. I'm asking the Cabinet to respond to these messages. Because in those passages in the Millions Note, a lot of attention is rightly paid to cabinet initiatives. We have earmarked an additional half billion for improving education, for better teachers, for more hours in schools, for improving the MBO. Then how come we get three of those messages in a week? What's the Cabinet gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u7	I see that Mr Bashir wishes to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u8	I know how this can be done: the elaboration of the policy of this cabinet, to which the PvdA Group supports. Take, for example, the "social" loan system. I believe that the PvdA Group has also supported this proposal. We are now seeing the consequences of this. Wouldn't that be a reason to say right now that we shouldn't have done that, that maybe we should stop doing that as soon as possible and we should do it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u9	No, it's not. The PvdA is in favour of much more investment in education and has done so, by the way, with the support of various parties here in the Chamber. For example, there are more hours. Mr Koolmees is so shiny; I once did not call him by name and he still provokes it. The PvdA is also firmly in favour of more investment. Last year, for example, we invested in early and early school education, so that everyone can take advantage of it. There were also major quality problems in higher education. It was also necessary to find money for this, and the social loan system generated that money. In primary school, for example, advice depends on teacher education and this may depend on money. If money is needed to prevent this, we are quite willing to do so, but the advice also seems to depend on a Cito score that is not taken seriously enough. That's not a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u10	I realise that the subject is indeed related to what we are discussing, but we are not going to turn it into a full-scale education debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u11	I have looked at the booklets that are on the agenda today, and there are things that we should work towards. We need to achieve certain percentages and targets. There are also things about education, for example how many people have to graduate and how many people have to graduate between the ages of 30 and 33. In today's newspaper reports on the loan system, we see that access to higher education is deteriorating and that young people from a socio-economically lower environment choose not to study. That is the formulation of the policy that the PvdA has also voted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u12	The PvdA stands for an education policy where, in times of difficult austerity, we have allocated more than half a billion extra to improving the MBO, improving the pabo's, so that children get better education, and education deficits. This has improved in many places, but in fact three reports on access to education have been published in the last week. That is what matters to the PvdA and that is why I appeal to the Cabinet. What does the Cabinet intend to do about this? My second theme is innovation and research, where the Netherlands is a bit in the middle. The question is how the cabinet intends to achieve the ambition, which it itself has endorsed, to invest 2.5% of GDP in innovation and research. My second question is how this is done effectively. The PvdA Group is very much in favour of achieving this ambition in a somewhat targeted way, rather than just doing it with tax measures, for example. Does the cabinet agree with the PvdA Group? The third theme is investing in renewable energy. This is, of course, extremely important for future growth and for a healthy sustainable economy. We need to move away from fossil energy and towards renewable energy. I do not want to leave this point unnamed, but at the same time I realise that there is almost weekly debate here with Minister Kamp on the renewable energy targets and how he is going to achieve them. So I am not going to pay much attention to this, but this is an important element on which the PvdA Group expects action from the cabinet. I come to the Stability Programme. In the analysis of the budgetary authority, the European budgetary rules have been set out in the most clear way possible. Whoever reads that analysis immediately realizes that you can't actually work with it anymore. A structural deficit, an expenditure standard, a MEO procedure, a corrective arm, a preventive arm, which is subject to different conditions than the corrective arm, but from one year to the next you can end up from one system to another, another path to the 60% public debt and so on; I do not even mention the actual deficit. The PvdA has long wanted to get rid of the structural deficit. That's an unmeasurable thing that you only know afterwards and is unpredictable. There is no budgetary policy on this. We will discuss this in general tomorrow's debate on the euro group, but I would ask the Minister to endorse it once again. Then I come to the investment agenda, which the PvdA hopes will be a result of the work of the Study Group on Sustainable Growth, which is expected for the summer. This study group was set up in addition to the Budget Space Study Group, on the initiative of a broad majority in the Chamber, and fortunately with the support of the Cabinet. This will enable investment to be made for the necessary economic earning capacity, for more employment and for more income in the future. That income is under considerable pressure in the years to come, if you look at the figures carefully. I look forward to that report coming soon, and on this basis the PvdA will make further proposals to further strengthen the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u13	Mr. Chairman. With another year until the elections, this cabinet has a good economic report. The economy is growing steadily, public finances are in order and public debt is declining. The next cabinet can count on a budget surplus for the first time since 2008. With the support of D66, this cabinet has carried out substantial reforms that are beginning to bear fruit. Before I come to talk about the National Reform Programme, I have one question about the Stability Programme. Under European budgetary rules, expenditure on the influx of refugees may not be taken into account. We all know that extra expenditure is needed for refugees, not only for reception but also for housing, language classes, education and participation. Not for nothing did the aldermen of the big cities yesterday warn that a group of people is in danger of being abandoned. If we don't do something, we'll have a welfare explosion in the next few years. Why doesn't the Cabinet invest in these people? Why does the government not ask for an exception to the rules in the Stability Programme? Then there's the National Reform Programme. The Dutch economy is getting on its feet, but there are still major risks in the global economy. The referendum on the Brexit, the monetary experiments of central banks or the slowdown in China can lead to the next recession. These are risks on which the Netherlands has hardly any influence. However, there is one risk that we do have in hand, namely the risk that we will find it enough; that we will not take difficult measures if there is no acute need; that we will not repair the roof until the weather starts to rain. That is precisely the mistake made by our predecessors, because in 2007 Prime Minister Balkenende called the Netherlands "reform tired." A year later Lehman Brothers fell and the Netherlands turned out to be poorly prepared. As a result, at the low point of the crisis, we had to take measures that were at least ten years late, such as raising the retirement age, limiting the mortgage interest rate deduction and modernising the right of dismissal. Everyone knew it was necessary, but no one dared do anything about it until we were forced by the crisis. Let's not make that mistake again. The Netherlands is not finished yet. 570,000 people are unemployed at home. They are looking for a tax system in which labour becomes cheaper, so that employment grows. In the labour market, the division of labour is growing. In the meantime, almost 2 million employees have a temporary contract, while a fixed contract is unreachable, for example because employers hardly employ people because of dismissal rights and financial risks. Does the cabinet share the analysis that it is not enough to make flexwork unattractive, but that something really needs to be done about the obligations of the permanent contract? Our pension system is on its last legs. Older people are faced with discounts and the workers, who now work one day a week for their pension, have absolutely no influence on their money. This system leads to grumpy among young and old. Everyone's unhappy. Meanwhile, Secretary of State Klijnsma keeps studying and studying. But ruling is something other than studying. Why does the cabinet not come forward with a proposal for pensions? On the housing market an important step has been taken, but Dutch people are still vulnerable due to high mortgage debts. If you get in trouble because of a divorce or if you lose your job, you can't always pay off your debt. The savings are often stuck in pension funds. The cabinet preaches peace on the housing market, but is that still wise now that house prices are rising again in many places and interest rates are very low? What possibilities does the cabinet see for accelerating redemption? Meanwhile, the Netherlands lags behind investment in innovation and renewable energy. Something strange is happening there, because on the one hand there is money in abundance. That money is looking for a profitable investment. On the other hand, we see that major investments are needed in innovation and renewable energy. Why don't supply and demand come together here? Even public funds, such as the National Energy Savings Fund and the Energy Performance Incentive Scheme (STEP), are underused. What can the cabinet do to attract more investments, so that the Netherlands can grow in the future? The Netherlands is far from finished. Yes, a lot has happened in recent years and the Netherlands is much better off than a few years ago. But let's not make the mistake of the past and sit back and do nothing. There is still a very large task in terms of investment and structural reforms, so that we will have a strong Dutch economy and strong Dutch public finances again in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u14	Mr. Chairman. This annual debate on the Stability Programme has changed rapidly. Four years ago, the programme went into history as the Kunduz agreement and meant an increase of EUR 12 billion. A year later, the Commission imposed additional €6 billion in savings. But now it's been different for a few years. I was wondering on my way to tonight what it's about this year. It is all in the title: Stability Programme. Stability. I think we all want some stability. What is stated in the Stability Programme is that this is no longer a major task for the Netherlands. After difficult years, the Netherlands stands better. The Central Economic Plan of the CPB and all the medium-term estimates show that the cuts and reforms of the last five years to prepare the Netherlands well for the future have results. They also make clear what some other countries still have to do. Because not only the Netherlands, but all EU Member States are sending their stability programme to Brussels these weeks. My eye fell on France's programme last week. The French Finance Minister announced additional measures to meet the Commission's deficit target. You can read that positively, because the French are finally going to do something, but I am cynical because their estimated growth rate is much higher than that of the IMF or the already optimistic European Commission. I'm guessing it's more of a pubic thing, so that the Commission can give the green light to France in May and next year without too much loss of face. After all, we have not heard much about last year's austerity package, a month before judgment. What is the Minister going to do to prevent the argument he has been making for years, that countries need to reform structuralally, just as the Netherlands has done, from becoming a meaningless, grey-headed record on the European stage? I'll be back in the country. What does stability mean? What do people notice? Well, for example, you have to worry less than a few years ago if you're going to keep your job and that more and more jobs are going to be created in the Netherlands. This means that more and more people can move forward in life. There will be stability in your wallet, but you also have some more to spend and your house is no longer heavily underwater. I recall this morning's news that there are considerably fewer houses under water again. When we look a little further, we no longer have to worry about whether we can all pay for health care. We know that the facilities we now have, now for our parents or grandparents and in the future for ourselves, remain available and that the affordability of the AOW is no longer a matter of concern. Our big, complicated decisions of the past few years were about this kind of basic certainty in life, which is that you have money to spend and you can live the life you want to live. In this respect, the Netherlands has achieved very good results. That is also an important reason why we have little choice but the solutions we see today to curb the flow of refugees. We have to make it work. After all, the affordability of the facilities, our care and our social safety net do not go hand in hand with a large influx of people who rely on these facilities for a long time. Of course, there will be plenty to do for the coming years as well. Look at the economy. It's running well, but what can we do to add another tooth? After all, an even more attractive Netherlands and higher growth also help to keep our facilities affordable and reduce unemployment faster than is currently foreseen. What is the government's view of economic development? How does it assess economic expectations and what ambition is there to make and keep the Netherlands as attractive as possible? Anything that the Netherlands can do to be extra attractive and to create additional competitiveness and innovation, things that can further boost growth, is welcome in this respect and should embrace each party. After all, that also leads to more jobs. The same is true at European level. Growth must also be at the heart of this process, for example through an even more ambitious agenda for the internal market, services, the digital market and energy. The Netherlands and Europe have everything to be at the top. We don't have to put up with the average. The Stability Programme is the kick-off for the 2017 budget. The cabinet assures us in this stability programme that this budget complies with the expenditure frameworks and Brussels rules and has until Prinsjesdag time to do so. In this respect, the comments of the Council of State are a preliminary warning. It is a bit sour, but fortunately there is still a few months left to fit all these measures for 2017. Nevertheless, the Minister made it clear that this is still a bit fitting and measuring, especially when we consider that there are still a number of commitments from the Cabinet to raise security spending. Of course, I would like to hear from the cabinet that it also takes this task seriously. Good luck with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u15	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch public finances are moving in the right direction. The figures of the Central Planning Bureau (CPB) on the state of public finances show that even a budgetary balance is in sight around 2019. We have now left the feared 3% deficit threshold far behind us. Let me briefly review both programmes, the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme. The least exciting thing is the National Reform Programme. This is beginning to get quite the character of a ritual dance. The European Commission first dances from Brussels towards the Netherlands with a bunch of recommendations on household debt, pensions and mortgage relief and then, in the person of both ministers, the Netherlands dances around the Commission and sends it back to Brussels with a copy of the government agreement and a number of passed laws. There is no obligation for the Netherlands, it seems sometimes. And there is no Brussels measure, as it sometimes seems. I also heard the reference to the report of the General Court. Everyone's happy, and next year we'll do it all over again. Although the CDA is of course a great supporter of traditions, this is becoming more and more a ritual dance. That's something else. What does the Minister think about this? What's his perception of this? I'd like to have a reflection from the Minister on this. As far as reforms are concerned, the CDA lacks particular attention to the very limited decline in unemployment. The Work and Security Act doesn't work. The payment of wages in the event of sickness is really a brake on job creation for small and medium-sized enterprises. Is the government really going to take up these reforms or should we leave it to the next cabinet? The Stability Programme is much more concrete. It's also full of hard numbers. These are the agreements on which the Netherlands is accountable to Europe and to which the Netherlands is acting. This is even about efforts to remain below the 3% deficit. We expect this from other countries as well. As has been said, it is clear from the conclusion that the Netherlands does not have much to worry about in the budget at the moment, if we can believe the predictions. However, a small catch is what the Council of State concludes. It points out that there is a 20% probability of the Netherlands shooting through that 3% deficit limit in 2017. This can't just happen. Reference is made to the Brexit, to the continuing uncertainty in the financial markets, that of the banks in particular, to the tension on the financial markets in China and to the terrorist threat, which gives rise to many uncertainties. How does the Minister view the calculation of that 20% chance? What's his idea of that? What risks does he see in this? We are also dealing with the issue of asylum and migration. Mr Koolmees indicated that it was not included in the calculation of the percentages and amounts. In the end, however, this will affect the budget of the Netherlands. I ask the Minister whether this will lead indirectly to budgetary uncertainties. The cabinet itself writes that the cabinet's efforts are aimed at maintaining the expenditure and income framework. The Council of State notes that the cabinet has not yet indicated how it is going to do so. Can the Minister give an insight into how the budgetary frameworks will be maintained? Or should we wait for the decision-making on the Spring Note or on the decision-making on Princess Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u16	Mr. Chairman. I will, of course, address all the issues related to the Stability Programme and also a number of looser issues. The Minister of Economic Affairs will deal with everything related to the National Reform Programme. Many questions have also been asked about the reforms that are still needed or which we still have on the agenda. The most important point for the Stability Programme is: are we going to comply with our own budgetary rules and are we going to comply with European budgetary rules? In short, does the budget remain on the path towards the desired budget balance? Yes, that will be the case. Now you will ask, like the Council of State: how? Mrs Schouten asked the same question. She already knows my answer. For this, we are now going to the ministries in a spring round. We'll see what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on. Of course, there are also windfalls. There's gonna be space. Towards the summer we make the balance. I just can't say much about that. I do know that we are simply following our own budgetary rules. The cabinet is, of course, united in that. We therefore also retain the frameworks. If we do that, we will also comply with European budgetary rules. The amounts mentioned by the Council of State, for example that the cabinet should reduce its expenditure by 2.7 billion, are therefore not necessarily true. As I said, there may also be windfalls. So that should not be understood immediately if: we are going to make cuts. That wasn't said at all. The Council of State itself says: this is all on the basis of the CEP figures. There will of course be even more up-to-date estimates from the Central Planning Bureau during the year. Secondly, the Council of State says that, of course, there are also normal budgetary developments, for example in the departments, which neither the CPB nor the Council of State has a view on in this early spring. So they don't have the complete picture. I'm trying to form that complete picture. That is, I think, an important theme for several Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u17	It certainly is. Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u18	It is true what the Minister says: I expected his answer a little bit. But I quote this because the Council of State does insist on paying attention to it. It is true that there are several developments, but I indicated in my contribution that there are also quite a few tasks for the cabinet. So we are talking about 2.7 billion in windfalls, plus the additional challenges that are being discussed here whether they will be promised or looked at. Then what is this minister's assessment? Will this be a simple assignment for the cabinet? Or is this likely to lead to additional cuts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u19	Can I add a third variant? No, it's not going to be a simple assignment, and no, it doesn't have to be. But Mrs Schouten knows that the Minister of Finance can never rule that out. It doesn't necessarily lead to cuts. We're just going to look at how the exchange rate problem can be solved, what bottlenecks there are and possibly where space is. Then we're gonna take stock of that. Of course, we know the wishes that live in the Chamber. It has been said that we will look into it. We'll see what the possibilities are. That disclaimer is always there. Then we'll finally get back to the Chamber on Prince's Day. So no, I can't give you an indication of where we're going to end up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u20	But my conclusion is that the cabinet is going to cut back if necessary. Can the Minister of Finance indicate the direction in which the cabinet thinks in that case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u21	No, that would be very unwise, just as it would be unwise if I did that the other way around. Let's say there's space, it's totally overlooked. Then I'm not gonna tell you today how we're gonna use that space. We have not yet reached that stage in the decision-making process. It's really gonna be later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u22	So I do get confirmation that, if necessary, savings will be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u23	Yeah, as well as there's definitely not going to be any cuts if that's not necessary. Look, I also need to prevent a headline in the newspaper tomorrow that will cause the Dutch to get worried again, unnecessarily reduce consumer confidence and so on. Let's just not do that. During this period, the budget is moving very steadily and consistently in the right direction. We have made a great deal of effort in this regard. By "we," I mean not the cabinet, but the Dutch population and the Dutch business community. We will move forward in the right direction. We have achieved everything together, with the whole reform package and the cuts, for more than 50 billion in reversals, especially if you include the previous cabinet period. We've really put this period behind us. We are now much more concerned with small adjustments and, where necessary, with small intensifications. We're gonna see if they can keep each other in balance. I realise that this is very unsatisfactory. During the first few years there was a very exciting atmosphere around the system of the Stability Programme. My predecessor walked down the halls to bring together a austerity package and to obtain support for it. Let us be lucky that this spring is a normal spring again. We must send it to the Commission, but we are simply going through the budgetary cycle, which we used to know. I would also like to say this to Mr Bashir, who thinks that we are on the Brussels leash, that we are receiving dictatorships from Brussels and so on. We have our own budgetary policy. If we do this properly and wisely, we will remain far from the limits set by the European budgetary agreements. If we stay far away from that, Brussels will have nothing to dictate to us at all. We're our own boss. That is a very pleasant situation to implement policy. Mr Koolmees asked specific questions about asylum expenditure. I would like to make one point in advance. He supported the great cities and the letter they sent. I thank him for his comment, which gives me the opportunity to make a comment back. If we consult administratively with all the municipalities, and not just with the large four, then I find it extremely strange that the large four municipalities send a letter, which is implicitly a threat, that they will no longer receive people if the cabinet does not come to terms with them. In normal proportions, that's really very strange. It's also unnecessary. We are very aware that much is coming towards the municipalities. We are also very aware that this is about money. The discussion is now taking place. I'm committed to giving that signal here, too. I don't think it's a way to do it. If Mr Koolmees says that the cabinet does not want to invest in these people, that is really completely out of control. Of course we have to invest, otherwise it will certainly not be good. In recent years, and at least last year, expenditure has already increased as a result of the substantial influx of asylum. That kind of thing already leads, via the staircase-on-strap-afsystematiek, to an increase in the Municipal Fund. Mr Koolmees knows that better than anyone. In the past year, therefore, the municipalities have already received more money along several roads. That will happen again, so that we can cope with the flow of asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u24	I thank the Minister for his reply. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that the coming year, and perhaps the coming years, will require a lot of money, not only for care, but also for housing, education, integration and language learning? How do we ensure that people do not remain trapped in an asylum-seekers' centre or in the assistance? Is the Minister saying in concrete terms that the cabinet is going to make money available to make these investments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u25	I am glad that Mr Koolmees mentions housing. At that point I am disappointed in the municipalities. There are currently 17,000 people waiting in COA facilities and azc's, which should have flowed to municipalities. That's not a question of money. That is a matter of aldermen who have to put their hands on it. It is about the aldermen who have just embraced Mr Koolmees. So I'm gonna push back a little bit. After all, we are only going to save this if they too make their share.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u26	I'm not taking sides in the dispute between the minister and the municipalities. I see a serious problem, namely that there are indeed 16,000 people in asylum seekers' centres who would like to move on to a home. That apartment is just not there, because there are very long waiting lists. I see problems in education, because there are no places for children who want to learn the Dutch language or because there is not enough money to shape integration. My question was, in particular, whether the cabinet is going to ensure that there is money to prevent us from falling into the trap of finding in five years' time that there are a lot of people trapped in the assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u27	I cannot rule out the latter, because it is extremely difficult to integrate refugees, but our efforts, together with the municipalities, are certainly aimed at this. Money will be made available for this. There is no doubt about that, and the municipalities know that. That conversation will continue in the near future. That's just happening. We're gonna have to pay for that. It will be sober, I say, because it really is an extra challenge financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u28	Thank you for this commitment. I think it's very wise to invest heavily in education. By the way, that's what D66 has been saying for a long time. Because we have to make sure that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u29	This seems more like your second term than an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u30	I had asked a specific question about the exception to the budgetary rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u31	That's right. I was actually still working on some kind of introduction to get to that point. It is indeed possible to ask the Commission for leniency ex post, not in advance, if you break the budgetary rules. If you can show that this is due to the fact that, in the past year, there has been a significant additional influx of ex post asylum seekers, the Commission is prepared to take this into account on an occasional basis and not to impose sanctions or whatever; ex post and occasionally. Structural problems must simply be included in the Commission's budget. She can't allow it structuralally. Expenditure on asylum in the coming years is foreseeable. They won't happen to us. A very large increase in the influx................................................................................................................................................ If we had broken the budgetary rules in recent years, i.e. in 2014 or 2015, we could have asked the Commission ex post whether it would not be too hard on us because of the additional influx of asylum. There is no need to ask that now, because we are simply complying with the budgetary rules. So we have not asked for that, and it is not in this programme either. The costs for this group for the coming years are foreseeable. Think about the flow of assistance and training and so on. So we will simply have to incorporate these costs into the budget ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u32	I also asked this because the Council of State stated in its opinion that, unlike other countries, the Netherlands has not included a sentence which calls for this derogation. Other countries have. I know that Belgium and Italy, for example, have done so, including in the Stability Programme. So I was wondering why the Netherlands didn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u33	That is, I think, the fact that these other countries are a little more in danger and that in 2014 and 2015 we have just properly complied with the budgetary rules. I say that with a lot of confidence. So I do not think it is necessary to ask: do you want to treat us kindly because of asylum? That's just not necessary. In the system we are talking about one-off expenditure and unexpected expenditure. If the Council of State had thought about that for a moment, he could still have noticed that we are not including that phrase, but perhaps he could have understood from the context why we are not. It doesn't matter to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u34	The Minister continues his speech with unabated self-confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u35	Mrs Schouten and Mr Harbers have asked whether the system is working now. They asked some questions about that. Mr Nijboer has also said that it is all far too complicated. I'm just gonna take a few points out of that. With regard to structural reforms, Mr Harbers says that it is a greyed-out record; how can you enforce it? We do not have an enforceable mechanism for immediate reforms. Then you should give the European Commission the power to enforce that the pension system is finally being reformed in country X and that the labour market is finally being adapted in country Y. I don't think that's what we want. At least the Dutch cabinet believes that countries should do so themselves. We do have competence in the budget. The budget must be put in order. In recent years, several countries have been given more time. As members can remember, the Netherlands has also been given an additional year which did not turn out to be necessary afterwards. But the Netherlands has had that. The same applies to other countries. You can argue about that. You might wonder if it's not too fast sometimes. That is the Commission's responsibility, unless Ecofin stops the Commission from doing so. But that's never happened before. The Commission must continue to exert pressure on countries. She does the same in several countries that have not yet met. Sometimes there are also complex circumstances, such as those in Spain where there is no functioning government. There is currently a caretaker government, a missionary cabinet, while the budget is once again lagging behind. France is doing a little better at the moment than at the last mission it received from the Commission. France is moving faster than expected towards 3% and below, but it still needs to be realised. Should we have reformed earlier? Sure. Would that have put the budget on a better path in France, for example? Absolutely. Has this government proposed a number of reforms? Sure. Were they weakened during the parliamentary procedure? Yes. However, we do not have the option of giving the Commission the power to enforce this kind of thing in the national parliamentary process. The stick behind the door, the real pressure must be on the budget. The Commission must continue to do so consistently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u36	We are in complete agreement on the latter. Of course, the leverage is there and not on any reform. I deliberately mentioned the example of France, because I know that it is always a little more difficult for Spain with an everlasting cabinet formation. France was delayed to comply with the budgetary rules precisely because of the vague promise that France would reform. That's not exactly gonna happen. We can do it, but reform is often a little less successful there. Now there is another stability programme which is also a little vague. Of course, the leverage is in the budget. Does the Minister see a chance to find some more companions in the Eurogroup and the Ecofin Group to say that France's fun is over now? They should say: hup, that deficit should quickly fall below 3% and preferably below 2% as in other countries; you see how you do it with structural reforms or not, but the deficit should simply be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u37	Yeah, the pressure stays on. The discussion in the Eurogroup is taking place in such a way that the countries that are lagging behind and which are not delivering enough are really being considered for longer. There's more zooming in on that. It is also said to the Commission: make sure that you keep them under pressure. We are also going to return to a number of countries specifically in the euro group in May because they are supposed to do more. France has been behind for years, but at the moment you will always see that when you are standing at the interrupt microphone, France is ahead of its obligations again, on the way to a deficit below 3%. But Mr Harbers is absolutely right: that has taken a long, far too long. Mr Nijboer pointed out that the budgetary rules were complicated. That's for sure. We are also going to talk about simplification in this area at Ecofin. Perhaps we can talk about Ecofin tomorrow in the AA. This is also about the structural deficit. I believe it was Mrs Schouten who wondered whether it was not opportunistic to start a discussion on this at the time when you did not realize the structural deficit yourself. That is a justified point, if it is not the case that all countries face the same problem. The structural deficit, as Mrs Schouten herself knows, is, I think, an extremely complex indicator. It is difficult to estimate and difficult to influence. Last year, when we drew up the budget, for example, it was only at the very last moment, just before the pieces went to the printer, that we could determine what the structural deficit would be. It is not possible to pursue a budgetary policy unless, of course, you move far away from it, but that is difficult when your economy recovers and the budget still needs to be brought into order gradually. So it is precisely at this stage that it is difficult to achieve a structural deficit. In any case, it is extremely difficult as a steering tool. I also think it is a very ill-explained budgetary criterion. And yes, that is important if we want support for our budgetary policy. That is the strength of the Dutch budgetary rules, which are reasonably explanatory. When an exchange rate comes along, it also becomes complicated for the people at home, but in general our budgetary rules can be explained. This is simply important in terms of support, and so are those European rules. So we're going to try to make progress on that. That is what we are doing with the Commission. The Commission has put forward proposals to move towards a single indicator, which will place much more emphasis on an expenditure rule. I think I'm a long way from answering. Mrs Schouten asked about the high private debt ratio. She referred to Mr Knot who advocated a stress test for homeowners. If that's what she's saying individually, I'm very much in agreement with her. That must be done at the moment when a mortgage is taken out. Banks do the same in principle. They show the consumer that they must also be aware of the fact that interest rates may be low at the moment, but that they may be higher in the future and they must show what the costs are. Banks are also obliged to go through the scenario of what happens when one of them dies with consumers when they're alone. Can the next of kin still pay the mortgage? By the way, more and more consumers are securing their mortgage for a very long time. But also a period of twenty years will come to an end at some point and that interest may be very different. Banks are obliged to take a real active view of this with consumers and to point out those risks to them. I think I am at the end of my reply. I see Mr Bashir standing. He's gonna remind me of something now, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u38	I have asked a number of questions, in particular about the export surplus. The Minister's books... Is the other minister gonna go into that in a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u39	Yes, Minister Kamp does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u40	I have also asked a number of questions about poverty. The VVD has talked extensively about this... If we look at how things are going now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u41	Minister Kamp also addresses the issue of poverty. You also asked about multinationals in connection with the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u42	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u43	I found the story of the SP extremely hostile towards business. The Dutch government, this cabinet, is not at all hostile to multinationals. In fact, many of our most beautiful companies are multinational. Yes, we will always give them a good place in the Dutch climate. Does that answer your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u44	That wasn't my question. Nor is the SP hostile towards the multinationals. In fact, we want them in the Netherlands. They provide employment. What we want is for everyone to pay their own fair share of taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u45	Sure, all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u46	What the European Commission is saying is that the export surplus is partly due to the fact that so many letterbox companies are based in the Netherlands. She calls it neat multinationals, but in fact it's just letterbox companies that provide a cash flow in the Netherlands that's ten times as big as the gross domestic product of the Netherlands. I'm asking the Cabinet to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u47	Our externally favorable trade balance, balance of payments, looks at various factors that you also know. For example, it has to do with the large pension funds we have here and with the port of Rotterdam. It also has to do with the good location climate in the Netherlands. The multinationals are not only here because of the tax environment, but that certainly plays a part. Empty mailboxes, that's not what we're waiting for. The Tax Administration is not particularly accommodating in this, to put it euphemistically. There is, of course, nothing against multinationals who want to settle here because we have an open, liberal economy with a lot of English-speaking, well-educated people, a fantastic Schiphol area and the tax environment. Especially if they bring jobs, we hope to continue to receive these multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u48	I'd like to check with the Minister for Economic Affairs if the Minister for Finance picks up a particular question. It is about the fact that the Council of State has also referred to the observation that the 3% limit may be under pressure in the light of uncertain international developments. I had asked about the Minister's reflection on that. It is also possible that Minister Kamp will answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u49	I think I need to answer that question. That probability calculation comes from the so-called fan chart of the CPB. The CPB doesn't say what's going to happen. There are all risks and uncertainties in it. The CPB shows a range of possibilities. Due to unexpected international events or financial or economic crises that would occur suddenly, there is always the possibility that we will be shooting through the 3% limit again. I have no analysis of that other than the CPB. It has to do with risks in the global economy. Is China going to pursue the structural reform path well? Is the Chinese economy reappearing? How will the energy price develop? What is happening at international level in the banking sector? Is this sector continuing the path of strengthening and strengthening? Or is that where new bubbles occur? I therefore have no analysis of the risks other than those of the Netherlands Bank and the CPB. I'm not fighting for an opportunity like that. I don't have any other odds. The CPB tells us an image that I think is real. It motivates the cabinet to ensure that we really continue to follow the path towards budgetary balance, the path of reducing debt. Public debt is falling again for the first time in years, but we still have few buffers. There are few buffers in government, households and SMEs. In all these areas of the economy, buffer capacity needs to be strengthened. If there are risks, we must be able to cope with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u50	I have a brief enlightening question. How do we deal with this in concrete terms? The referendum on whether or not Brexit is in the short term. That's exactly when this minister has to make his plans for Princess' Day. Should the referendum have a negative result, after which a Brexit can take place, how does that affect his planning process for Princess Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u51	All these uncertainties motivate the cabinet to follow its own budgetary rules. The strength of the budgetary rules is that you are gradually being forced to put the budget in order. The government debt is now over 60%. It would be good if the public debt would be below 60% in the coming years. In such a short period, between now and the United Kingdom referendum on 23 June, it is impossible to further increase the buffer. The most important thing is that international investors and capital markets have a lot of confidence that the Netherlands can finance itself. We are doing this by putting the budget in order and ensuring that interest rates on Dutch government bonds remain low. It reduces our vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u52	In my old field, the military field, people are used to working with various scenarios and to planning ahead on solid events. To what extent does the Minister currently have different scenarios in mind about the way in which he is going to put the budget on Princess Day, also in view of the referendum that is taking place at the end of June?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u53	I know only one thing about the budget: in view of all the possible risks, it is best to bring the budget in calm and gradually bring it into balance. The government debt is already falling. I will not give a wild jerking to the wheel to reduce public debt more quickly, but I think it is important that it is steadily falling by full percentage points this year and next year. We will continue to pursue this policy. I am not going to develop alternative scenarios in the budget or in its preparation for possible short-term shocks on the basis of the example mentioned by Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u54	We are now ready for the answer of the Minister for Economic Affairs. I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u55	Mr. Chairman. As my finance colleague said, I will go into more detail about the National Reform Programme and what the spokesmen have said about it. The National Reform Programme is part of the European Semester, which I would like to qualify differently than Mr Bashir did. The European Semester is a process set up by the European Commission to ensure that the financial and economic policies pursued in the countries of Europe strengthen the countries so that the countries are compatible and in harmony. The European countries have an interest in this and we in the Netherlands have the greatest interest in it. We know that 80% of Dutch exports go to the European Union. If there is a stable financial and economic situation in the Member States of the European Union, it is very much in our interest. We do not therefore see the recommendations we receive from the European Commission as Mr Bashir has qualified them. He was talking about dictations of unelected technocrats. We see them as useful recommendations that help us move forward in our efforts to preserve our prosperity and to preserve and increase our employment. The Netherlands has always taken these recommendations seriously. As a result, the European Commission has been able to see that we are among the top four of the 28 European countries in the implementation of these recommendations. That was the case in the year 2012, in the year 2013 and in the year 2014. The fact is that the objectives that apply to the Netherlands, or have been met, or can still be met, because we are still working towards a certain year. For example, the gross employment rate in the Netherlands was 76.5% in 2014. That is well above the European average and we are on course for our target of 80% by 2020. The level of education of our young people in the Netherlands is well above the European objective. In terms of climate and energy, we have already achieved the objectives or are on track to achieve the objectives. With regard to the fight against poverty, I think Mr Bashir was completely out of line. An analysis has been carried out in Europe for all 28 Member States of the likelihood of poverty. What is your risk of poverty in different countries and what is your risk of social exclusion? This has been analysed for all 28 countries and the number two of all countries in Europe was the Netherlands, where the situation is the second most favourable. The Cabinet has established that. We are never satisfied with the fight against poverty. It is still the case that there are many people, including in the Netherlands, who need to be helped out of poverty, and we continue to fight for it, because we think that is one of the important tasks of the government. However, if you raise such a subject, it is important to put it in the right light, and the right light is that, as I said, the Netherlands is the second best country in terms of the risk of poverty and social exclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u56	This is exactly what I meant by statistical data-processing of the facts. You can also compare the Netherlands with other countries, perhaps even the poorest countries in the world. Then the Netherlands will do even better. However, if you look at the development of recent times in the Netherlands, you will see a decline. The number of households below the low-income threshold has increased; the number of households living under the low-income threshold for more than four years has increased; the number of low-income households in large cities has increased; the number of children in poverty has increased; the number of children under 18 growing up in poverty has also increased. That's how I can go on. I have a whole book with me. That has happened over the past few years. The Minister will probably be right: if you compare it with other countries, it will be good and good in the Netherlands, but we see a development. What is the Cabinet going to do to reverse that development?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u57	I compare it with the countries with which I have to compare it, and those are the countries of the European Union. I'm not comparing it to Burkina Faso. I'm not comparing it to Iraq or Afghanistan. I compare it with the countries of the European Union, and we look at our ambition in terms of poverty and combating social exclusion. What is the situation in the various countries? Then you can see that the Netherlands is at the top of Europe. We are proud of that, but we are well aware that this remains a constant challenge for the cabinet. Last year we had 58,000 migrants who came to the Netherlands from various countries. They still need to acquire a place in the Netherlands and that goes beyond for a number of years. During this period they are dependent on social benefits and are thus easily labelled as "poverty" in our statistics, but despite what the Netherlands has had to collect and still collect on this point, we in the Netherlands manage to have a situation that can serve as an example for almost all other European countries. I am never satisfied with the fight against poverty, but we also took important steps last year. We have increased the maximum health care allowance, child benefit, child-related budget, child care allowance, labour discount and income-dependent combination discount. These are all concrete steps which will enable us to maintain and strengthen our position on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u58	I thank the Minister for this rather comprehensive answer. Does he also say that the figures I have put forward are not correct? Have we not seen an increase in the number of people living in poverty recently? Or can that increase only be explained by the influx of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u59	The fact that 58.000 people came to the Netherlands last year, of course, continues to work. We have a total of 176 000 people living in poverty according to our qualifications in the Netherlands. If you get 58.000 people from abroad in one year who still have to start their process to get a good place in the Netherlands, that certainly affects the figures. Anyway, we've got stuff like that to collect. In the end, it is the end result of all our efforts. I just showed it to you. Once again, we are never satisfied on this point and will continue to make our efforts. Mrs Bruins Slot said that she sees what we are doing with those recommendations as some sort of ritual dance. I don't think it's a ritual dance for us at all. I have already indicated the situation in the Netherlands with regard to the implementation of the recommendations. We are very active in this. In this area, too, we are always at the summit in Europe. We are convinced that we must give this example, because we have a very strong interest in ensuring that the financial and economic situation is stable throughout Europe. That is why we will continue to take the European Semester and the reform programme seriously. If you look at how the European Commission's recommendations have worked out, and if you look at the ambitions we have for ourselves, as my finance colleague said, what agreements we have made as a cabinet, then the picture is very clear. I agree with the outline given by Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u60	Mrs Bruins Slot has an interruption going right through the issuing of the cabinet blessings, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u61	You almost look colored! Nor do I think Mr Kamp... I do not know if Mr Kamp likes to dance. The fact that he says he's not from the ritual dancing,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u62	My wife is a very good dancer!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u63	Look, there's someone in charge at home! The European Court of Auditors also makes a number of comments on how the different processes have been implemented. The Minister says that the cabinet is actually reforming and that it is looking seriously at the indications given by the Commission, but isn't a number of other countries in Europe looking mainly at them while they are still not doing enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u64	Yeah, sure. That is why I think it is important that these recommendations from the European Commission should be made. That is why we, as President of the Competitiveness Council, have also worked very hard to reach agreement and make proposals in this context. We have also achieved results. We have worked to ensure that the valuable recommendations made by the European Commission in the framework of the National Reform Programme and the European Semester are also followed. These countries have an interest in this, Europe as a whole has an interest in it and the Netherlands in particular has an interest in it. Mrs Bruins Slot asks whether I do not think that some countries are still lagging behind. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u65	The Minister says: we have tried to make agreements, we have made proposals. There is still that feeling in the Netherlands that pushes it, but that the concrete blocks of other countries still move too little. If the Minister looks back, where can one more step be taken? Or is it time to do that ritual dance differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u66	No, I think the European Semester is a very good process. Countries provide information. That information will be verified and then analysed. Then come the recommendations. Countries can respond to that. My experience is that they are valuable recommendations. That is why the government is consistently working to implement it and we are at the top in Europe with the successful implementation. Insofar as other countries do not do enough, we believe that this is primarily at their own disadvantage. We would like to work with them to improve the European system, increase pressure, assess each other better and critically assess each other's information. We believe that the process can be further strengthened and improved, and we have also put forward proposals for this. We believe it is important for Europe to take further steps in this respect. Let's see how it works out for the Netherlands. I don't do it much, but I'll let you know. I was there myself when we had a 1% contraction in the year 2012 in the Netherlands. In the meantime, last year we achieved 2% growth. This means a turnaround of 3% of economic growth over a period of three years. This year is expected to be 1.8% and next year 2%. We now seem to be at a stable level of 2%. This level is higher than the average in the euro area, higher than in France and higher than in Germany. This economic growth is supported, among other things, by our exports, which are unabatedly successful. Last year export growth was over 5% in one year. Business investment growth last year was 8.4%. As you can see, our economic growth has a sound basis, not only in exports and business investment, but also in consumer spending, whose growth is now up to 2%. There is a broad basis for our economic growth. I certainly do not contradict Mr Koolmees, who pointed out the international risks. They're the way he put them. They are also risky for the Netherlands, but the Netherlands is not a shortcut in the world. We can contribute positively to developments in the world. We are the fifth exporting country in the world. We're one of the biggest investors in the world. If we have our affairs in order, it will have a positive effect from the Netherlands and from Europe in the world. We are also trying to play that role. We are now seeing the effects of employment. In 2015, the number of jobs of employees and entrepreneurs increased by 100,000. For the first time, we have reached a number of 10 million jobs in the Netherlands. At the same time as we have achieved this economic growth and that growth in employment, the budget deficit has fallen. My colleague from Finance has often explained this. Last year, our EMU debt as a percentage of gross domestic product fell from 70% to 65%. The long-term prospects of the Central Planning Bureau for unchanged arrangements indicate that we could have fully repaid our EMU debt by the year 2040. The government budget deficit could also have been completely eliminated by the end of the next cabinet period. What has already been eliminated is the sustainability deficit. There was a sustainability deficit of 4.5% in 2010. In the meantime, we have a shelf life surplus. This is the healthy basis under the Dutch economy, which we worked on together with the Chamber as a cabinet. However, it has been mainly hard worked by entrepreneurs and employees in the Netherlands, who manage to deliver products and services with each other that are in demand in the world, with which money can be earned, with which prosperity can be preserved and with which jobs can be created. I am now looking at the various points that have been mentioned by the spokesmen. Mr Bashir asked why the cabinet didn't do anything. I hope that we have now gained a slightly different understanding of this. He said the will to make public investments is lacking. I think that's a misunderstanding. Maybe I can give you one example: public investment in renewable energy. The largest offshore wind farm in Europe is located in the English part of the North Sea and has a capacity of 632 megawatts. The Netherlands will start construction next year with a windmill park at sea of 700 megawatts. The following year another is being built, just like the year after, the year after and the year after. There are five coming together in five years in a row in the Netherlands that are bigger than the largest in the North Sea today across Europe. These are public investments made in the Netherlands in renewable energy. The fact that the cabinet is reluctant is therefore contradicted by the facts. Mr Bashir and others also spoke about what is going on with regard to research and innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u67	I have another question about the previous point. I also asked about the trade surplus. This is, of course, linked to investment, at least in our analysis. If you have a surplus of 9.1% while the Brussels dictations, which the Minister does not think should be called, speak of 6%, you are well above it. Then you have to do something to stop that or at least reduce it. This can be done by encouraging domestic investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u68	We are looking at this differently. In 2013, we had 15.4 billion in natural gas revenues and this year it will be less than 3 billion. That's a drop of 12 billion. That has a major effect on our exports. We export less gas and the price is much lower. That means that part of our trade surplus, our balance of payments surplus, has melted away like snow before the sun. What remains standing and what we will never give up is our export position. Dutch agricultural entrepreneurs produce products that are the number two exporter of the world. ASML makes a product of such quality that it serves 85% of the world market. The 100 million-a-piece machines go to Korea, Taiwan and China, and they make chips with them. The Dutch export industry manages to achieve growth year in, year out of 3%, 4% or 5%. This leads to a surplus on our trade balance. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u69	There will be few groups in the Chamber that are not proud of that. The point is that we have an export surplus. This in turn leads to a surplus in savings, while you can also take measures to boost domestic spending. If you do that, you will ensure domestic growth, you will also ensure that poverty is dealt with, and so on, and so on. I would like to believe that the five wind farms we are building contribute to reducing the export surplus. However, we have a large export surplus at the moment, and you cannot get rid of it by saying that you are proud of our exports. Everyone's proud of the export. What we must want is to stimulate and stimulate domestic spending. We need to put energy into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u70	I'm not quitting anything. I am just saying, supported by amounts, how we will have 12 billion less natural gas revenues in three years' time. This relapse is largely due to the fact that we can sell less natural gas to foreign countries and also get a lower price for it. This therefore affects the balance of payments and the trade surplus very much. I also said that we owe this favourable balance of payments and that trade surplus to the constant production of products and to the provision of services that are needed in the world. This enables us from the Netherlands to meet needs that exist in the world. The result is, among other things, that we have employment and prosperity here. That's what we're gonna do most of the time. I also mentioned one example of investment, namely in renewable energy. I wasn't talking about the Netherlands having the best infrastructure in the world. The Dutch infrastructure, the roads, the ports, the internet infrastructure are the best in the world. There's a lot of investment in that, but that's not what I was talking about. I am talking about renewable energy. Tens of billions are currently being invested in renewable energy. How can anyone claim that the Dutch government is not investing? We are investing heavily, resulting in the figures I mentioned just now in response to what Mr Harbers said about them. Mr Harbers asked: it is good that there is economic growth, but what more can we do? How are we gonna wake up again? I think that is a real ambition of Mr Harbers. We are now at 1.8% or 2%. That is a good percentage in Europe, but for us it is not a percentage of which we say: let us leave it at that. We see more possibilities. I believe that we should first of all exploit these opportunities by giving entrepreneurs room for manoeuvre. The basis for export success lies in entrepreneurial initiatives and the involvement of employees in business. So we have to give entrepreneurs the room. We are doing this by constantly working to reduce the regulatory burden. Europe does not yet have a quantitative objective in this area, but we do have one in the Netherlands. The previous cabinet has achieved a reduction in the regulatory burden of 1 billion and the current cabinet has achieved a reduction in the regulatory burden of 2.5 billion. Moreover, we have an agreement with the business community. If a sector says that it suffers from regulatory pressure and unreasonable rules, then we are ready to go through all these rules together with the entrepreneurs in that sector. We'll see what we can do and what we can do better. We do so in every sector in which this initiative is taken. We welcome this and we are going to go along with it. We have also organised a unique collaboration between research institutions, universities, knowledge institutions, entrepreneurs and public authorities, both at national and regional level. Although we spend less money on research and innovation than we would like to, I'll come back to that in a moment, but what we spend on it, we spend on it in a way that has a lot of impact. We are also trying to ensure that we are always focusing our efforts on cooperation and helping each other. This is also particularly appreciated by the companies. They really feel supported by the knowledge that exists in the Netherlands, and by the governments. This gives them the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunities they see on the world market. In the Netherlands, 2% of gross domestic product is currently spent on innovation and research. So I am not talking about everything we do through universities, through the money flow that is available for basic research in particular. However, I am talking about money for research and innovation that is ultimately focused on applications in business. So we are talking about 2% of our gross domestic product. The European Commission is right to say that this is little. The Commission's objective for our country is 2.5%. The government has the same objective. We see that in Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, Finland is 3% or higher. Something really needs to be done about that. We take this in part by ensuring that what is available is put to best use. Furthermore, we are taking part in focusing public investment in research and innovation on business in order to stimulate it to do more. At times when the government's financial system offers opportunities and can be talked about priorities, this will be one of the priorities. A decision will have to be taken on this. The cabinet is successful in terms of results with the resources available in the current circumstances. This is very important for this cabinet period. We invest in research and innovation, especially on renewable energy. This represents a total of 125 million this year; this is innovation for renewable energy. Mr Bashir asked if we were going to turn on the orbiting machine. I have already said that in a year's time 100,000 jobs will be added and 10 million jobs in the Netherlands, the highest level ever. Mrs Schouten asked what level of gas extraction we are taking into account. The finance colleague takes into account a level of 27 billion cubic metres on an annual basis. Mrs Schouten spoke of the carbon bubble, which meant that large fossil energy companies would have stocks of fossil energy on the balance sheet that could not be obtained or at a lower rate, which would require adjustments to the balance sheets. Yes, that will certainly be the case. These companies are also partly committed to renewable energy, which is then replaced by renewable energy. Furthermore, the transition to renewable energy will also require fossil energy production for decades. We absolutely need that to keep our economy and our life in the world going. As developments continue, balance sheets will have to be adjusted. That's what international accounting rules are for. It is primarily the responsibility of the companies themselves to ensure that their balance sheets reflect reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u71	DNB recently issued a report on the risks to the Dutch economy of this carbon bubble. According to that report, it is not only the responsibility of the companies themselves. It is a risk to which the Netherlands has also been exposed, for example through pension funds. Does the Minister recognise this risk? Is he willing to give a response from the cabinet to this study of DNB? But more importantly, how does the cabinet intend to control these risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u72	Pension funds consistently spread risks across different sectors, countries and time. It is their responsibility to invest the funds entrusted to them wisely. It is very good that DNB makes analyses of this as a supervisor and makes recommendations for it. It is very sensible for pension funds to take this into account. I have no response to the report mentioned by Mrs Schouten. My colleague may respond to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u73	Maybe I can help: that commitment has already been made by the Minister of Finance. At your committee's procedural meeting, it was decided to remind him of the fact that he is going to give that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've got things in a better place than I have. I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u75	I've got some help on the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u76	That goes for me a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u77	Does Mrs Schouten have another question or a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u78	A follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u79	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u80	I am glad to hear that the Minister of Finance is going to be reminded of that. But the Minister of EZ is a bit of an easy walk away from the issue of pension funds. He says that it is actually the responsibility of the pension funds themselves. It is not my own analysis, but the analysis of the Netherlands Bank, which is also the supervisor of pension funds. So I asked this minister if he really recognizes the risk of the carbon bubble. I would like to hear the substantive response to the report from the Minister of Finance, but does this Minister recognise that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u81	I don't need the Dutch Bank anymore if I get a warning from Mrs Schouten, because I take her very seriously too. I think the carbon bubble is real. The energy companies have first fixed themselves on fossil energy. Prices were high and there were large stocks on their balance sheets. At some point prices will go down and there will also be an alternative in the form of renewable energy. So that has an effect on their balance sheets. It is then their own responsibility to apply international accounting rules and ensure that their balance sheets are consistent with reality. The same applies to pension funds. I don't run away from my responsibility, but there's no point in me stepping into other people's responsibilities. Shell is very capable of taking responsibility for his own balance. ABP is very capable of looking at the risks they run and whether these risks are sufficiently spread out, or whether they need to be spread out even more. I understand that pension funds and other institutional investors are very interested in the large investments we are making in renewable energy and that they also want to participate. That way they also want to spread their risks in the energy field. That's very wise. We will be happy to follow this up, partly on the basis of the useful report prepared by the Dutch Bank. Those were both Mrs Schouten's points. Mr Nijboer spoke about the ambition to invest 2.5% of GDP in innovation and research. I've already gone into that. If we have to go from 2% to 2.5%, it will save 5 billion. I think that we should have the ambition to allow business to do most of this, also because business is now relatively behind schedule. The Dutch government is above the OECD average in terms of percentage of gross domestic product spent on research and development. The Dutch business community is underneath that. We have good opportunities to stimulate companies: the innovation box, the Wbso and the TKI bonus, which is provided through the top sectors. So we intend to continue to make the best use of the opportunities we have and also to increase them if possible, but above all we want to ensure that investment in business innovation continues to increase. Mr Nijboer also spoke about the transition to renewable energy. He expects action from the cabinet. I sincerely hope that he will see that the cabinet is fully prepared to do so and is also fully engaged in the transition from fossil to renewable energy. We believe that this is absolutely necessary, and we have strong objectives for this, which we are firmly committed to. I hope that Mr Nijboer will realise that we are continuing to work on this with conviction. Mr Nijboer said he would come forward with proposals on investment. Together with his colleague Harbers, he took the initiative to make sustainable investments visible. The cabinet is working on that with conviction. When we come up with proposals, we hope, of course, for support for these proposals, but we are always happy with additions to our proposals. So we'd like to wait and see. Mr Koolmees indicated that the Netherlands has little influence on international economic risks. I've gone into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u82	Let's get back to the previous point; I thought you were going on at the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u83	I have a question about sustainability. Normally I'm on another committee, often Health, Welfare and Sport. I hear the Minister praised how he wants to increase sustainability and that he wants to do so in a society-wide way. At VWS there is a game for the sustainability of energy for sports clubs. This was a poor EUR 6 million, which was spent within three weeks because it seems to be very badly needed. At that time I also asked whether the Minister for Economic Affairs had any money left to ensure that the sports associations could make this even more sustainable. I just heard the Minister of Economic Affairs say that he has money to make things more sustainable, while the same minister wrote in reply to my written questions that he had no money left, at least not for that. I find that disappointing. My question is therefore whether the Minister still has some money to make sports associations more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u84	I had some money, but after talking to my colleague in the finance department, I had nothing. This applies not only to me but also to all my colleagues. I believe that Mrs Bruins Slot has been part of the basis of this new arrangement. We have said that we are paying a sum to make sports associations invest in the sustainability of club buildings and so on. That was a great success; the money was quickly gone. In the light of the experience of the first year, we are looking at what we are doing in the second year and what budget is useful to spend on it in the second year. This subject is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u85	I know that this minister is also really an association man, someone who believes in the power of volunteers who are extremely active in this. It is, of course, nice when associations are left with money because they are more sustainable and can then spend that money on sport. Is this minister now saying that he wants to consider making more money available for next year, so 2017 to make sports associations more sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u86	I know that my colleague from VWS, who is responsible for this post, has seen with interest the rapid and good use of this scheme in the first year. I'll see what proposals she comes up with for the next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u87	Then the Minister returns the ball to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, while the Minister of Economic Affairs also stands for the higher goal of making the whole of the Netherlands more sustainable. Now there is a group that is eager to do so, because otherwise that arrangement would not be empty within three weeks. The question is whether, in the meantime, the Minister for Economic Affairs can not mean anything more financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u88	Let me say that this is a very small contribution to sustainability. I do not know what amounts it should be compared with, but I think that this year we are making some 12, 13 billion commitments for renewable energy, while this amounts to 6 million in the VWS budget. Mrs Bruins Slot cannot expect the Minister of Economic Affairs to make commitments to a colleague's budget. I won't. However, I have said that this is a new item in the VWS budget, that the scheme has been used quickly and well and that I estimate that my colleague will also make her decision on the second year on the basis of the experience gained in the first year. I'd like to be involved in that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u89	One last time, Mr. Chairman, because no shooting is always wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u90	And you still want butter with the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u91	The minister talks about 12 to 13 billion, which he himself spends. My simple question is whether he has a few million left over from the 12 to 13 billion to make some money available to sports clubs, which can really make a world of difference for their environment with €10,000, €20,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u92	I didn't say I'm spending 12 billion, I'm making 12 billion in commitments. Renewable energy must be produced over a period of 15 years and, as renewable energy is produced, subsidies will be made available. The total amount of these grant commitments over a period of 15 years, as I have allowed for this year, is 12 billion. That is a very different order of magnitude from what we are talking about. However, I repeat myself, Mr President. You allow an interruption in fours, so I have to answer in fours as well. My answer is once again that it is an item on the VWS budget and that it is a new arrangement, which was well used in the first year. On the basis of the first year's experience, it will be considered what is wise to do in the second year. I have answered Mr Nijboer's questions. I went into what Mr Koolmees said about international economic risks, but I believe that he and his group have enough confidence to see that the international economic risks are there, but that there is also a responsibility for the Netherlands to play a constructive role internationally. Mr Koolmees spoke about reducing the cost of labour and said that 2 million people do not have a fixed contract. I will not go into reducing the cost of labour, but I will deal with those 2 million people who do not have a fixed contract. A lot of people work as entrepreneurs. Many people think that the benefits of this are greater for themselves than the benefits of being a worker. The flexibility in the Netherlands is high. This is also an important factor for our business. If you work in a flexible environment, that means that, if there are opportunities, you can use them quickly. If it is necessary to reduce your costs to survive, it should also be possible. This flexibility has important advantages, but it is also important that we have a good balance between security for workers and the flexibility that business wants. The cabinet believes it has found that balance. We're keeping a close eye on these developments. We shall see how that develops in the coming period. I think there should be flexibility and security and that finding the right balance is by definition a task for the cabinet if policy measures are considered and weighed up on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u93	Of course, I very much agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs that we need a flexible economy that responds to change. My comment about 2 million people with a temporary contract was not about the entrepreneurs. It was about a new division in the labour market between people with a fixed contract and those with a temporary contract or payroll contract. That division is getting bigger and bigger. The difference between fixed and flexible is growing. I asked the Minister whether the cabinet still intends to address the obligations relating to the permanent contract, for example the recruitment of people by employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u94	In the sum of our flexshell not only people with temporary contracts, people from temporary employment agencies, payrollers,zzp'ers or independent entrepreneurs with staff are counted. The sum of all these different groups is the number of 2 million. In addition to the government agreement, the cabinet concluded a social agreement on the relationship between flex and fixed. The agreements we made in the social agreement have been transposed into legislation. This legislation is now the first experience. My colleague from Social Affairs and Employment is following this very closely. If there is any reason to change the course we have taken with conviction, he will certainly come up with proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u95	We have had this discussion recently with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I only note that this point is addressed in all reports, from the European Commission, from the IMF, from the OECD, and in the country reports, which make recommendations to the Cabinet for sound economic policy. There's something really wrong at that point. This division in the labour market is becoming an increasing problem in the Netherlands. As a result, people are getting less and less opportunities to get to a fixed contract and to get security in it. That really is an obstacle to the Dutch economy. Then it is a pity that the Minister for Economic Affairs refers to monitoring existing developments, while the reports point out that this is really becoming a problem in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u96	I'll do more. I said that we had more than 100,000 jobs in one year and that a number of 10 million jobs are available in the Netherlands. That's the most we've ever had. The Central Planning Office has concluded in its prospects for the next cabinet period that at the end of this period unemployment should be taken into account at 5.5%. Balance unemployment in the Netherlands is 5%. The difference between 5% and 5.5% is due to the policy that has now been implemented. Meanwhile, Dutch industry has a strong position on the world market and is expected to retain it in the coming years. This is due to the situation in the Netherlands, the good cooperation between governments, research institutions, universities and companies and the flexible possibilities in the Netherlands. For us, the challenge is to find a good balance between the legitimate desire of people to have security in their lives and the legitimate desire of business to be able to react flexibly to developments. That is a challenge not only for this cabinet, but for every cabinet. That's always gonna be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u97	More jobs are good; that is beyond question. The Minister has already said this several times in a row, but I keep missing the phrase that should be found, namely: there is a slight drop in unemployment. Unemployment is still high. On the one hand, it is really good to have more jobs, but on the other hand, many more jobs are needed because there is still a slight decline in unemployment. On top of that are a lot of people who would actually like to work more hours and also a number of people who are waiting to make themselves available to the labour market again. There's a lot of work to be done back there. I hear from the Minister one part of the story, but I would also like to hear his reflection on the other part of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u98	I agree with Mrs Bruins Slot that unemployment is falling less than the number of jobs increases. The cause of this is known. As a result of the booming economy last year, there was a growth of 2%, this year almost 2%, and next year it is expected that 2% of people will see more and more opportunities in the labour market. People who were not available at first now register as job seekers and would like to participate. I think that's very good. That's very positive. People should not be dependent on benefits and should not be dependent on others, but should provide their own income through work. Our job is to ensure that jobs are created for them. Last year we got 100,000 more. The number of jobs has now reached a record. At the end of the next cabinet period, we are expected to be almost on balance unemployment. So we're on the right track. We are never satisfied at this point, it never goes by itself and everything has to happen, but the line that has been deployed is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u99	Unemployment is not falling rapidly and more and more people are offering themselves on the labour market, but I actually hear the Minister of Economic Affairs say: I am not going to change policy. However, there are still a number of major challenges, for example in the area ofzzp'ers and in the area of dismissal law. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs intend to pay attention to this in the last year? Or does he say: no, I simply rely on the figures and leave the policy unchanged?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u100	Those numbers don't fall out of the sky. We have higher growth than Germany and the whole euro area. At the end of the next cabinet period, we may have eliminated the budget deficit. It is already said that we could have eliminated our entire public debt towards 2040. We are now moving towards equilibrium unemployment. Our businesses can operate in such an environment in the Netherlands, including in terms of the labour market, that it is doing very well on the export market. This is all the resultant of first and foremost the performance of the business community itself and, secondly, the supporting role played by the public authorities in this. It is also the result of sensible measures taken by the cabinet. We will always be prepared to make those improvements where improvements are possible. We've changed the right of dismissal. We have the Work and Security Act for that. We'll see how that works out in practice. If we wish to make changes on this point, we will try to gain acceptance for these changes in the same thorough manner as we did at the time when the social agreement was concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u101	My specific question is: is the cabinet going to take this further or will it leave it to the next cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u102	The cabinet has never left anything behind. We firmly believe that it is our responsibility to work from day one to the last day to carry out what we have agreed, to analyse possibilities for improvement and to try to achieve those improvements with the support of the House of Representatives and the First Chamber that is necessary. We will continue to do so. We hope for support in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber of the party of Mrs Bruins Slot. We could really use that. Mr Koolmees asked questions about pensions. Major changes have already been made in this area. Where other countries are very reluctant about retirement age or even lower retirement age, we have increased the retirement age. We also establish a relationship between the number of years that people live on average and the time when they retire. I think we have taken important steps in this respect. Now we are going to take further steps to ensure that the whole pension system is given the necessary modernisation. These follow-up steps concern pensions, for which employers and employees have been spared together and for which they are also responsible. These steps must therefore also be supported by them. This is being achieved at the moment by our colleague, Mr Klijnsma, who is doing this very carefully and will come to the Chamber with the results of her work and her findings during this period of office, so that we can discuss this with the Chamber. However, I would point out that support in the Chamber is important, but that this is about the pensions of employers and employees. That's what we're gonna need. I went into what Mr Koolmees said about investment in innovation and renewable energy. I also referred to Mr Harbers' analysis of the economic situation and of what needs to be done further. I hope I have convinced Mrs Bruins Slot that the European Semester, which aims to ensure that the financial and economic policies of all the Member States of the European Union are healthy and that the Member States are strong together, is something the Netherlands has a great interest in. There are few countries in the European Union that have more interest in this than the Netherlands; hence we ourselves take our own responsibilities seriously on this issue and follow the proposed measures and recommendations. We are also trying to organise during our Presidency that other countries, to a greater extent than they are today, will also follow up on these valuable recommendations of the European Semester. I can end with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u103	Thank you very much, but I still see an interruption by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u104	One question remains, namely my group's question on equal opportunities for all. That was one of the main themes of my contribution just now. How does the cabinet view this? In the Millions' Note there are worthy words about this and it is an important issue. In the last week, there were three reports showing that this seems to be under pressure. What does the cabinet intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u105	There are a number of things I do not know as well as Mr Dijsselbloem. One of them is answering questions about education. So with your agreement, Mr President, and Mr Nijboer, he will go into that point in more detail in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u106	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the reply from the cabinet. Let me look around to see if there is a need for a second term on the side of the Chamber. Yes, that is certainly the case now, because there has to be an answer after that. And is there a need for a short suspension prior to that second deadline? No. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Bashir of the SP Group for the second time, with considerably reduced speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u107	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both directors for the comprehensive answer. The Minister of Finance says that we score well in all pictures, so we do not have to expect a fine from Brussels. We are in favour of that fine, he says, but by saying that you are being guided by Brussels and by what Brussels is asking. Outside you can of course put it so that you do what you do, not because it is good for the Netherlands but because it has to be Brussels. And that's my point, too. When I look at these two programmes, I see a lot of words, but in the end it is about results. What is the outcome of this debate? I conclude that the cabinet is doing very few new things, for example to tackle poverty and the growing division in the Netherlands or to do something about the trade surplus. Of course, this trade surplus remains a major problem, because our surplus is another's deficit and that is unfair to the southern countries. My question to the Ministers is therefore whether they are prepared to come to Princess Day with a plan to stimulate domestic investment. Then I don't mean we have to deal with exports. No, export is good, but make sure that domestic demand also increases, which means that something is being done about the surplus. Finally, I would welcome the report of this debate, which includes the contributions of all the parties and the answers of the ministers, being sent to Brussels with the two documents. Then the people of Brussels will be able to read what we have said and take this into account in their recommendations. I'd like to get a response from the rulers. Are they prepared to send the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u108	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. We are just reading that the NOS reports that there will be discussions with the cabinet tomorrow on the direction of the budget. I understand that the Minister of Finance does not yet want to clarify, but he may be able to give us a hint of the veil. I would like to ask one more question about the stress test proposed by Mr Knot. He said households should do it themselves. We have already asked at an earlier stage whether a passage can be devoted to private debt and its risks in the Millions Note. Can the Minister of Finance undertake to address this particular issue, the risks of low interest rates and the potential bubble that this creates for households, and what is needed to reduce that risk? I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance this evening whether there is a reaction, or whether the main lines of a reaction, will be on the carbon bubble and on the report on this matter from the Dutch Bank. Indeed, we have had more complex debates on the Reform Programme and the Stability and Growth Pact. It's nice that it's less complicated now, but let's not get rich too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u109	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the comprehensive answer to almost all the questions. However, one question remained before my second term. It's an important part of my input. I have a habit of not making too many motions, but it is now my second term and that is when it has to be done. I wanted to make it dependent on the answer, but we can always do whatever we want with it. So I'm filing the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas this cabinet invested more than half a billion euros in education;]] [[Whereas greater inequality can lead to lower employment and growth;]] [[Whereas there are concerns about educational opportunities for all;]] [[Whereas each child must be able to obtain the best of itself;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals in the next year's budget to improve and ensure equal educational opportunities for each child and every young person,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1354]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u110	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for their reply. The debate on the Stability Programme has been different in recent years than it has been this evening. We should indeed be glad that things can be calmer now. The Minister of Finance was rather annoyed about the letter from the G4. He says that the municipalities themselves do not deliver either, for example with regard to housing. But why does the cabinet then delete the urgency statement for status holders in the Housing Act? As a result, the problem of the municipalities is only getting worse. The Minister may respond to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u111	Shall I determine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u112	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. For D66 it is important that there is enough money to invest in education, participation, integration and language classes; precisely because we do not want to repeat the mistakes of the past and precisely to avoid social problems in five or ten years' time. Let us learn from that, and so let us also spend money on it. I had prepared a motion on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State and the hook for the exception of European budgetary rules. I have heard the Minister's answer to that. Does the Minister guarantee that European budgetary rules will not be a barrier and that they will not therefore block investment in participation, integration and education, so that we will not hear afterwards that it is not allowed because of European budgetary rules? I'd like that guarantee from the Minister. Finally. I look forward to the outcome of the search for support in the polder between employers and employees by Secretary of State Klijnsma on the revision of the pension system. We had this debate exactly a year ago. We note that we are now a year ahead and that there is actually no result yet. I hope we can take steps quickly. I too am eagerly looking forward to the answer of the Minister of Finance on equal opportunities in education and to his response to Mr Nijboer's motion. This is an important issue in order to get upward social mobility on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u113	Mr. Chairman. I thank the two rulers for their reply. I would also like to thank them for their ambition to step up our efforts to ensure that we are one of the most beautiful and most competitive countries, so that we can create more jobs in this way. I think it is a very original suggestion from Mr Bashir to send the Acts of this evening to Brussels. Well, I'm sure that would require a few extra groceries. Those are messages to Brussels, but I also want to tell you what I do not agree with. For example, I do not agree with Mr Bashir's suggestion that we should spend our time reducing the current account surplus. The cabinet indicates that there are very good reasons why this is a little higher here. I mention the gas benefits, the good location of the Netherlands, the port of Rotterdam and the re-export. Those are all assets of the Netherlands and we are not going to destroy them. I have said before that it is ridiculous to grant endless exemptions for the costs of receiving asylum seekers. Fortunately, Mr Koolmees has not tabled his motion. We have to bear those costs. I think this is another example of too much flexibility in European budgetary rules. Anyway, the Minister knows my views on this. I have 30 seconds left to go further on France, hoping that they will also read our Acts. It's all just the heels over the ditch. This year the deficit is still above 3% and next year it is just below 3%, at 2.7%. However, we are already at 1.2%. The hook for the minister may be the sovereign debt in France. It stands at 96.2% of GDP this year, but it will rise again next year. There is therefore more than enough reason for France to give a firm ear at the May and June meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u114	Mr. Chairman. The Minister's answer to my question on ritual dance in Europe was quite clear. He sees a real opportunity to improve and strengthen the process and also to bring the other Member States into line. What exactly does the Minister intend to achieve in the short term? How do we ensure that we do not dance the same round dance with the other Member States over the next year? With regard to a number of foreseeable or unforeseen effects that may occur and which have also been included in the analyses of the Central Planning Bureau, I asked the Minister of Finance to look at scenario analyses. Can you think through different analyses? Is that important for the way you make fiscal policy? The Minister's response was actually rather sharp. He said: I don't see that added value and I just stay stable, calm down. Comes time, comes guesses, he actually said. My question to the Minister for Finance is what objections he has to the matter. Fly it from the other side. On asylum and migration, the Minister of Finance was also rather short. He said that these are foreseeable costs which we are simply taking with us in the next calculation. Does this lead or does it not lead to budgetary uncertainties? We do not know exactly how many asylum seekers we have or which of them can stay in the Netherlands. What does this mean for the facilities they need? What range does the Minister actually have for the expenditure to be incurred next year? Should I think of a range of EUR 500 million or EUR 700 million? I would like to have a further explanation of that. I shall conclude with a question to the Minister for Economic Affairs. In the reply he mentioned equilibrium unemployment. That's a state you want to achieve, but balancelessness is something other than the fact that you want to create as many jobs as possible. My question was how the cabinet intends to ensure that as many jobs as possible are created and that more people can get to work in the future. What obstacles does the cabinet intend to remove in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u115	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I see that the Minister can and will reply immediately and I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u116	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their questions in the second term. It seems to me that it would be practical to stop by the spokesmen and answer their final questions in this way. The question of the surplus on our trade balance has, in my view, been answered by Minister Kamp, but perhaps he would like to comment on Mr Bashir's question in the second term. The statement that our surplus is the deficit of southern countries is a kind of approach to the euro area or Europe as a closed system. That is far from reality. Moreover, more and more countries, including southern Europe, now have a positive trade balance, because they have taken measures to improve their competitiveness. I will answer the question about the sending of the report to Brussels. That is, of course, up to the Chamber. I don't feel called for that. We are sending out two things: the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. If Mr Bashir thinks that it makes sense to make his individual views known to the officials in Brussels who he first offended, he should do so himself. I am not going to send Mr Bashir's insults to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u117	I think it makes sense if they're sent along. I think I have also received the support of my colleague from the VVD. I do not see why the report cannot be sent along. That is, I think, democracy from the bottom up. The Chamber has spoken. Let the people of Brussels read the report, to say the least, because then they will know what has been discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u118	Maybe they'll follow the debate. It could be. In any case, it is your report, and it is entirely up to you to decide who you are going to send it to. In any case, the cabinet is not the postman of reports from the Chamber. If the House has a majority opinion that we must incorporate into our Stability Programme or our National Reform Programme, then of course we do so. That's the way things are. But we are not going to distribute documents from the House of Representatives in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u119	Before a very big titanic battle breaks out about this, Mr Bashir, you can of course also make sure that the report 'Just' comes to Brussels on the website of the Chamber of Deputies somehow. But that is only a neutral suggestion, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u120	I'll consider that, Mr. Chairman. But in the meantime, I do wonder what the Minister is afraid of. In my view, we have all responded to the content of what has been discussed here. Everyone has done so in their own way, with their own words. So I see no objection whatsoever to sending the criticism but also the suggestions made by the Chamber, but if the Minister does not want to do so, it will stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u121	Mr President, was there another question in this, or do you think I can continue? It's up to the Chamber, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u122	What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u123	I'm not afraid of anything. That's the answer to that question. Mrs Schouten once again tried to subtract the veil from the budget negotiations. That wouldn't be much good at the moment either. I don't have the picture yet either. As regards the budget for the current year, the Court finds the interim position in the Spring Note. Our plans for next year will be found in the Millions Note and the Princess Day budgets. I propose that I take up again with Mr Knot of DNB how he has now intended and seen this stress test. In the Millions Note, which is also an answer to Mrs Bruins Slot's question, we now have a rather extensive chapter, Chapter 4, on risks and how we deal with them. It concerns both budgetary risks and risks arising from guarantees we have provided within the country and in Europe. Once every few years we do a stress test on our budget. At least that answers Mrs Bruins Slot's question, I think. A stress test for the housing market raises the question of what the low interest rate means for possible risks to new mortgages, and how we could deal with them. I will take that up again with Mr Knot, and I would like to come back to that in the direction of the Chamber. I'll get to the carbon bubble.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u124	But that stress test does not, of course, look at individual events. A Brexit will not be included in such a stress test years in advance, because such events are individual political matters that come forward at some point and are often not seen in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u125	No, that's true, but that's a recurring discussion. We do a stress test about once every four years, I don't know exactly. In addition, we will introduce a number of scenarios. This always leads to discussion, including with the Chamber, about whether these are the right scenarios and whether it should not be more of this or less of that. When we did that last time, a Brexit wasn't identified as a risk. But a Brexit may, if it occurs, have risks similar to those in international trade or risks within the euro area, although the latter often have a slightly different character. On that particular theme of a Brexit, we have not done a stress test. That doesn't make much sense anymore. However, I maintain that if you pursue prudent fiscal policies with margins compared to budgetary rules and you reduce that debt, you simply build buffers for unforeseen things as well. I hope that a Brexit will remain unforeseen and will not happen, but this will make your budget more shock-proof, and I wanted to continue with that landline. With regard to the carbon bubble and its risks, I can say that we will be discussing this at the Informal Ecofin meeting in Amsterdam next Friday. This point will also be introduced by the Dutch Bank and will then be discussed with the 28 ministers, including the governors of the national central banks. As the President of the Chamber said, we are going to send the Chamber a cabinet response. This is being prepared together with the Minister of EZ and the Minister of I and M.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u126	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to contact the Dutch Bank and then report back to the Chamber. Can he tell when that's about? My second question concerns the carbon bubble. We have not yet had a reaction from the cabinet, but the cabinet is already going to raise this issue with the Informal Ecofin. What's the cabinet going to say about that? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u127	If Mrs Schouten had listened carefully, she would have heard me say that we are doing this together with the Dutch Bank and that this is an issue that the Dutch Bank is taking action during the Informal Ecofin. As she knows, the Presidents of the national central banks are also present at meetings of the Informal Ecofin. The Netherlands Bank provides the upcoming Informal Ecofin with the sustainable development component, including the question of what the transition to a sustainable economy means for economies, especially for the financial sector. The Nederlandsche Bank is going to introduce this on the basis of its own study and then we just have an open discussion about it. When Mrs Schouten asks me if I take it seriously, I say that I take it very seriously. I am not one of the alarmists on this point, by the way. It's just a development you're seeing coming. We will all have to make it more sustainable and this requires adjustments from pension funds, the financial sector and many other sectors in the economy. Those sectors should take that up. I am not in an acute state of alarm, but industry and sectors need to incorporate this new challenge into their business models in good time. That's my global response, but the Chamber is still getting a detailed response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u128	My first question has not been answered: when can the Chamber be informed about the consultation of the Nederlandsche Bank on the housing market stress test?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u129	I can send a note to the Chamber within a few weeks with a more precise explanation of how the Dutch Bank sees it. That note will also show whether we agree that we should take the initiative or whether it is sufficiently invested in how we deal with, for example, the protection of mortgage holders. I still owe Mr Nijboer an answer on the issue of equal opportunities for education. I can talk about this for hours, but I don't think you'll allow me to do that, Mr. President. Equal opportunities for education remains an issue of concern. Dutch education is doing well in many ways. In international comparisons, the bottom of the education building is doing well, but there are also a number of weaknesses that we have known for a long time. Early selection is a problem in Dutch education. This concerns in particular the objective judgment in the early selection. If you select early, it's even more important that you do it as well as possible. That's what the Cito test is so important for. At the initiative of the Chamber, the Cito test was made less important and the school's opinion was set out. They're going to evaluate whether that was wise. At the request of the Chamber, that's how we did it. There has also been a committee of inquiry of the Chamber which had otherwise advised on that point. We may have to look at this critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u130	What was the name of that commission again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u131	That was the Committee on Parliamentary Research on Educational Renewals. In all seriousness: the Cito test is an important instrument, at least in addition to, if not even with a heavier accent next to or for the educational advice. The objective assessment of the talent of a child and where a child can go must remain paramount. It is particularly important for children who come from families with a great disadvantage and who have been given little baggage from home that the objective judgement of a good test is there. But I really need to stop now, because I'm going into areas that I'm not formally about anymore. The leaders of Education, Culture and Science responded to the Education Report of the Education Inspectorate, in which this theme was explicitly discussed. This will be the subject of a debate in the Chamber. I think I can refer to that further. Then I will come straight to the Nijboer motion in part No. 1354. It would be obvious to hold the motion until that debate. That will take place before the summer. If the motion is to be put to the vote, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. Mr Koolmees has come back to the housing of status holders. The statement of urgency does not go far enough, but it does not prevent municipalities from making an extra effort to speed up the outflow of the azc's in the circumstances in which we are now in. We have a lot of discussions on that. We also discuss how we can help and support them, but eventually this part of the work will really have to be done by municipalities. We're behind 17,000 status holders. Those people already have a status. They can stay, but they're trapped in azc's. No integration, no opportunities in the Netherlands! We just need the municipalities for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u132	Exactly so, and that's why a few weeks ago we had a visit to the Committee on Living, which I am also in, to someone from the VNG, the mayor of Katwijk. He mentioned what the cabinet is doing now, very unwise, because it takes the municipality out of its hands the instrument to really do something about the housing of status holders. What the cabinet is doing now is throwing down the hedge and depriving the municipalities of an instrument to house people. While the cabinet blames the municipalities for lagging behind in housing asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u133	Firstly, the delay in placing status holders in ordinary housing in municipalities is already a much older problem. When the urgent procedure was still in place, there was also a great deal of delay. Previous rulers have been trying to speed up this process for a long time. Secondly, there is nothing to prevent the municipalities, should they choose to do so, from giving absolute urgency and priority to status holders. However, where this is not necessary or where municipalities choose another route, we do not force them from The Hague to impose that urgency. That's the only thing that changes. Municipalities can still say: here in Katwijk we still have to make an x number of houses available to status holders, and we do so with urgency and priority. That city won't stand in the way of doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u134	Part of that is also that 100,000 homes would be built in the short term, as exchange, to do something about those waiting lists. A motion by Mr De Vries of the Labour Party was adopted on this subject, with my party's support. Now we are constantly hearing that this is really lagging behind, that that is really a problem. We hear that there are 16,000, 17,000 people in an asylum-seekers' centre, who should actually go to a normal home, who should be integrated, who should actually get to work, that there is not enough building, but that municipalities are now taking down the urgency status, making the problem even more urgent and urgent. That does not seem to me to be a constructive atmosphere to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u135	This constructive atmosphere is strikingly common at the table on which we sit with the VNG and all the municipalities. The slight irritation that Mr Koolmees sensed with me was particularly apparent from the letter we received yesterday from the G-4. That was a really strange letter, when we are just in agreement with the VNG and therefore with all the municipalities. Yeah, there's a big challenge there. Yes, we have to do it together and yes, that will cost money and that money will also make the cabinet available, but we will see exactly what is needed and on which parts. That's what we're doing. Then it's weird to see such a letter and such a media offensive, with threats and all. I keep saying that I don't like that very much. Moreover, we are in a very constructive position. We are very aware that this will have to be done together. Mr Koolmees asked whether the Minister could guarantee that EU rules do not hinder investment in asylum seekers. That's a weird argument. The EU rules take into account the total expenditure and the sustainability of public finances. The only thing I can say is that, where expenditure is needed for reception, housing and, in part, for those who are allowed to stay, including the integration of asylum seekers, the Cabinet will make funds available for this and will therefore incorporate them into the budget. That is a more precise wording than 'the EU rules will not be an obstacle', because that is obviously not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u136	Of course, I agree with the Minister of Finance that this is ultimately the goal: there must be money for housing and for investment in education and that sort of thing. The point I raised in my first term, also in the light of the opinion of the Council of State, was that the Council of State indicated that there are countries that call for an exception clause and they indicate that in advance. Then the Minister said in his first term that we do not have to do so, because it is about ex post; that is not an obstacle to practice. I asked in my second term: is it true that these budgetary rules are not, or can they be, an obstacle to doing so in the near future? That's the only question I've asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u137	That question has been formulated carelessly. I do not want to have an unnecessary debate with Mr Koolmees. My exact wording was as follows. The European Commission has said that we can only ex post... If you turned out to have broken the budget rules afterwards.... let's say about the past year, about 2015..... but you can show that this is also due to an unexpectedly large influx of asylum seekers, then Brussels will let you off the hook, to put it in good Dutch. That is not necessary for the Netherlands. We comply with the budgetary rules in 2015. That is why we do not need to use that phrase in Brussels. Forward looking... Sorry, chairman, I will confine myself to the use of English. The expenditure required from now on for the group that is already inside and is allowed to remain in the sphere of housing, education and so on, is simply going to be included in the budget. Nor should you call on this exceptional flexibility to do so. That can only be done if you had an unexpectedly large influx, which led to your budget getting off the rails.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u138	I understand. That's why I didn't file a motion. My question was actually about 2016 and beyond. We're in April now. There is indeed a Turkey deal, but it is already under pressure. We do not know what will happen in the near future. I hope it goes well, but we don't know that at all. It's forward-looking, looking at the future. I note that this cabinet has not chosen to include this sentence in the Stability Programme. The only thing I have asked for is that we cannot call on the European budget rules to say that there is no money available for this kind of important investment in education, participation, integration and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u139	I'm not going to repeat my answer. Maybe I can add one new aspect. Suppose the asylum influx in 2016 would suddenly continue to rise and suddenly turn 92,000 instead of 60,000, as last year. I mention an arbitrary number, totally unsubstantiated, but if this happens, then we still have the opportunity at a later stage to inform the Commission that we have been out of business. That is not going to happen, because we are there ourselves, but if it does, we can ask the European Commission to take this into account ex post. We have this possibility at a later date, if I understand the Brussels rules correctly. Moreover, the NIS has revealed that the Minister of Finance has reduced the estimates for asylum influx; that is correct. It is also my job to control the estimates. Otherwise, you will see that the estimates are pumped up in all departments in order to grow extra fat on the departmental budgets. It is the role of the Minister of Finance to ask whether this is realistic and necessary; down with it! This message from the NIS is therefore entirely correct. Finally, Mrs Bruins Slot asked about the range of asylum costs. This is the discussion between 58 000 and 92,000; so I explain the question. For next year, too, for the time being, in pencil, we are going to take 58.000. We do so because we have no other estimate. We have a realization last year of 59.000. We have decided to take that as our starting point for the current year. For the time being, we will do the same for 2017. If the European approach to asylum influx is successful, it seems to be moving in the right direction, and we can reduce this type of estimate further later in the year. I hope that this will be possible, but for the time being we are only starting from the last figure of realization that we know. Finally, Mrs Bruins Slot asked what objections I have to scenario thinking. I have already answered that question in Chapter 4 of the Stability Programme. In this we analyse the risks and look at what they could mean for the budget. That's what we keep doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u140	Mr. Chairman. I should like to touch on a few more points. Mr Bashir spoke about poverty. I have already indicated that the situation in the Netherlands is the second best of the 28 EU countries. I also indicated that 100,000 jobs were added last year. These are also 100,000 additional opportunities for people to return to their own income through work and to get a perspective on rising incomes. It is also good to look at people who, as a single parent, have to earn an income around the statutory minimum wage. Their cumulative purchasing power increased by over 15% between 2013 and 2016. That is a result of the measures I have listed in the first term. The cabinet feels obliged to continue to work on reducing poverty in our country. Mr Koolmees mentioned figures on the flexible shell. I think I should respond to his figures again. You have employees in different variants. You can work through payrolling, temporary employment agencies and successive temporary contracts. If you add all that together, you get 1.9 million people. If you also bring the self-employed,zzp'ers and self-employed with staff, you will amount to a total of 3.3 million. The image that Mr Koolmees sketched of it was not wrong. Mrs Bruins Slot asked what the cabinet is going to do to potentially create more jobs. As I said, 100,000 jobs were added last year. The UWV is expected to create another 100,000 jobs this year. The cabinet is mainly on course and has been very consistent in this respect. We are working very widely on the quality of infrastructure, both digital and physical: ports, airports, roads and railways. It is all very important for business to be able to create jobs, because business creates jobs. We'll reduce the regulatory burden, along with the business community if we can. We ensure stable industrial relations. We provide finance for business when it cannot provide for it itself, but there are good business plans of good entrepreneurs. We continue the cooperation between governments, research institutes and entrepreneurs. We offer export support to companies. My colleague Ploumen and I are very active in this. We are constantly working on the quality of labour supply in the labour market. We ensure legal certainty, which is very important for companies, and a healthy fiscal environment. We are also ensuring that public finances remain in order so that there is room for business in this respect. We have, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u141	In any case, this seems to be an answer on the consolidation of policy, but there are still a number of issues, for example on the payment of wages in the event of illness and on thezzp'ers. I have another question. The Minister mentioned that the UWV now assumes more than 100,000 jobs the cabinet wants to create. In his first reply, he referred to the achievement of equilibrium unemployment, which is 4% to 4.5%. The estimate of unemployment in 2016 is 6.5%. In fact, the Minister said in his first term that he wants to create more than 200,000 jobs, but now he has reduced that number to 100,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u142	No, I indicated that according to the prospects of the Central Planning Bureau, unemployment will reach 5.5% at the end of the next cabinet period, and that at that time the equilibrium unemployment rate according to the CPB is 5%. Those 5.5% and 5% are getting close. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u143	Does this mean that the cabinet has left aside the issues I just mentioned about thezzp'ers and the payment of wages in the event of illness? The Minister always talks about the policy of perseverance. These aspects are insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u144	Every week I sit on the Council of Ministers next to my colleague for Social Affairs and Employment. I've never seen him leave anything. In particular, from the points raised by Mrs Bruins Slot, it appears to me every week that the colleague from Social Affairs and Employment is working intensively on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u145	You can be very intensive about something without achieving certain results. Ultimately, it's about achieving results. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs expect the cabinet to achieve results in these two areas and, if so, what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u146	I have spoken in detail about the results achieved by the cabinet. I also indicated that we then provided broad social support for the agreements made in the government agreement by concluding a social agreement. The agreements in the social agreement have been transposed into legislation. We are monitoring the results very closely. When there are opportunities for improvements, we see them as challenges and will certainly not fail to tackle them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u147	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u148	He had already finished his speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u149	He had already finished his speech. I would like to thank him and his colleague for the answers they have given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-38.u150	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motion tabled.
