ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u1	I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP, saying that of course she has every right to use her entire speaking time, but it is not compulsory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. When people get a letter from the CAK, they know: that will be paid. We have already discussed this in a debate. It's really not like people are cheering when mail from the CAK falls on the mat. The history of the administration office is therefore one of many complaints. When I was a Member of Parliament, about eight to nine years ago, the own contribution to the AWBZ had just been introduced. Week after week we heard complaints about the CAK on television, at Kassa, at Radar. It didn't go well in there. We have even taken the step to nationalise the Central Administration Office. After all, it was a private organization. This has been made an independent administrative body, so that politics could steer it more. This organisation is still in the top fifteen public bodies on which the National Ombudsman receives the most complaints. Although things are getting a little better every year, there is still a long way to go. If you look at this and look at the complaints and the fuss about the Zorginstituut Nederland, the former College for Health Insurance (CVZ), then it really turns out to be a stark contrast. There are never actually complaints; it does not occur with the National Ombudsman. About the performance of all kinds of tasks at the Zorginstituut Nederland is actually rest. I see the Minister responding, but that is not on the list of the National Ombudsman. Then I'll get to today's bill. I wonder why civil regulations from the Zorginstituut Nederland should be transferred to the Central Administration Office. I say it in Dutch: if something isn't broken, why fix it? What exactly is not going well in the implementation of the citizens' regulations by the Zorginstituut Nederland? Why would the administration office do so much better? Those are questions we have. One of the things I haven't been able to clear up is why that transfer is necessary. Nor have I been able to see whether one, as the jargon says, business case or feasibility study has been carried out. If it is done, I would like the Chamber to receive it. If something isn't broken, you don't have to fix it. Then why do citizens' regulations have to go from the Dutch Health Institute to the CAK? Would there be any cost savings? That's what this government loves. But no, there's only gonna be costs. The transfer costs a minimum of 10 million. Are there any other advantages? The transition from the tasks of the Zorginstituut to the Central Administration Office would be desirable to the Minister because the costs of care would be covered by a one-stop shop for citizens. That is not really true, because they will always have to go to municipalities, to the Social Insurance Bank, to their own health insurance provider and to the CAK. Can the Minister indicate what arrangements need to be implemented with the same citizens? How could a citizen get one less instance? In my view, the implementation tasks of the CAK and the Zorginstituut Nederland are not necessarily overlapping. That brings me to the question of what integration the Minister sees for himself. How could something be made easier? The Central Administration Office carries out the collection of its own contributions for the Social Support Act and the Long-Term Care Act. The CAK has a lot of hands on that. We had a debate on this this morning. The CAK does not appear to be an organization in control, so to speak, where everything is cookie and egg. The health care institute, the former College of Health Insurance, carries out a number of tasks related to insurance for uninsured insured persons, the measures in the event of default and treaty contributions of treaty beneficiaries, i.e. people living abroad and in need of care, who of course have to be paid out of the Dutch care pool. The health care institute is also concerned with people who are not insured, but who do have care costs. How exactly do you deal with that? (b) transitional arrangements which are still made up of previous schemes, with the involvement of missionaries, with the voluntary AWBZ scheme and with the AWBZ costs abroad. By letter of amendment, the illegal regime is still attached, i.e. the payment of care costs for illegal persons, who are uninsured. You cannot simply charge a hospital or a general practitioner with these costs. That would mean that these people wouldn't get any care, which we won't allow. I would say that these are not politically sensitive tasks, but tasks of which it is important that they are properly carried out. It's about a lot of money and a lot of administrative work. Where exactly should integration be achieved between tasks in relation to one's own contribution? It is important to look at how much care someone has had, what their income is and how high their own contribution is set. In all these cases, as a citizen, you do not necessarily come into the picture, because they are administrative acts. If you break a leg abroad, you'll get care. The health care institution then ensures that the account is paid and that this is recovered from the health care provider. You hardly have to see how that is done. That's quite different from the contact you have with the Central Administration Office. As of 1 July 2016, those tasks that the healthcare institute is currently carrying out will be transferred. On the same date, all kinds of measures will be taken to reduce the group of non-payers, the people who do not pay or cannot pay their health insurance contributions. How exactly did the Minister foresee the converging improvement of the payment system and the transfer of tasks to the CAK? Isn't that an unfortunate moment? Wouldn't it be a good idea to do this more in due course, so first to introduce one and then to do the following? It is our preference to first take the measures to improve the default scheme and try to reduce that group and get people out of it. What guarantee do we have that the CAK is ready for new tasks? What risks do we run if the system crashes? Exactly how much data is processed annually at the healthcare institute, which is going to transfer to the CAK? Is there also an emergency scenario if the processing of that data is not going well or not going properly? Is there a relapse option? At the Zorginstituut work 200 permanent forces and 100 temporary forces. If I'm wrong, I'll hear from the Minister, but I understand that this is about the ratio. These people have to move from Amsterdam to The Hague; this is a move from their physical workplace. How much is that? Is it true that people are allowed to count their travel time as working time for two years in order to reduce the extra travel time? Is it also true that many staff are not waiting for this move at all? What are the risks involved in this? I would like a response from the Minister to a quote from someone who e-mailed me: "I am dealing with two functional administrators, one for the daily work and one for the development of the supporting reports. The first is really essential for the implementation of our arrangement, the second is not, but that is the only person who knows how our system works. Both have indicated that they will not go to the CAK. In addition, we work with some testers who know the process well, which I understand two of the external testers and the test coordinator do not go to the CAK. That makes sense, because for them there is enough work to be found in Amsterdam, but this is a blow for the execution because since they are present we have had almost no production distortions anymore." What do we do if we do ensure that there are potentially good ICT systems at the CAK but there are too few people to implement them properly? In the end, of course, it is also about human capital that you must be able to participate in a new organisation. Looks like you're picking up a bunch of arrangements from one organization and dropping them in the other organization, but they're still people who do this. Does the Minister also see that there are real risks to this? If something's broken, you don't have to fix it, that's one of the things that shot me in the head in preparing this lawmaking. Is it true that after the removal of the Civic Regulations section from the Health Care Institute, the remaining part of the Health Care Institute will be moved and that new housing has been sought? Is it also true that in that search The Hague was rather quickly excluded as a possible location of the new institute because it was said that due to overly regionalized staffing it was not an option because there were too long travel times? If that is the case, is it proper that the Health Institute that remains decides this for itself, but that it is okay for 300 employees of the Citizen Regulations to make the transition to The Hague? Between 1 April and 1 July, new systems will be tested. Isn't that right? If they are already being tested between 1 April and 1 July, how can this be achieved if the decision-making process has not yet been completed in Parliament? Has the Minister taken into account any possible delay that may arise? Earlier, the Minister postponed the introduction of the transfer, which would begin on 1 January. It does not happen with retroactive effect now, but perhaps we will not complete it as quickly as the Minister would like or will the First Chamber make a large pot of tea about this law. Is there a relapse option? Have sufficient risk management measures been taken in relation to the review of the new systems? When all the systems will be migrated, will there be a sufficiently strong system? What's gonna happen if it doesn't? Are there any detailed scenarios on which you can fall back to ensure continuity of service? Yesterday I asked for a report from the Chief Information Officer in the scheme and I did not get that because it would be a policy idea of an official. Now those policy ideas of that official have been mentioned 23 times in a letter from the minister of three sides. At that time, I asked for the underlying report, which we have been given confidential access to. I didn't look at that because everything you see confidentially, you can't treat. Why wasn't it just seen as some kind of small BIT report? That chief information officer came in on the occasion of the Committee on ICT. Such a report should be made public when an investment in ICT by a government institution exceeds 5 million. So then my question to the Minister is how big that investment is now. It must therefore be less than 5 million, which is why it would now be a policy idea. But if the investment becomes more than 5 million, will that report still be made public as a BIT advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u3	A point of order: the Chief Information Officer's report to which Mrs Leijten refers and why she did indeed ask yesterday was made available to the CIP. I read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u4	That's right, it's confidential for inspection by the CIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u5	Of course. I can also appreciate that this has happened, but we all know that in a debate you cannot quote from a report that you can see confidentially. It is referred to 23 times in a three-page letter. At the time that the investment in ICT had exceeded 5 million, it should have been made public according to the rules of the ICT Committee we set up. Then why does the Minister say here that it is about policy ideas? Perhaps you could have anonymized those considerations of policy ideas, you could have removed them, because they are not relevant to the Chamber. That could have been fine, but no, it's chosen to keep it a secret. It may be insightful for us, but it's still classified. I'm having a hard time with that. I do not think we should do that, especially in the light of all the discussions we are constantly having about public investment in ICT. I regret this and ask the Minister what amounts are involved in the new ICT systems of these schemes. Is that really less than 5 million? If it were a little more than 5 million, this opinion would have been called a BIT report, and according to those rules it would have become public after four weeks. If something isn't broken, you don't have to fix it. The SP is not at all convinced that there is a need for these tasks to be transferred. In fact, we are concerned about whether the CAK is in order. We have no reason to say now that all these citizen schemes must be transferred. In addition, there is something else. For a year now we have been talking to the Cabinet in the Chamber about the problems that have arisen in the implementation of the pgb drawing rights. We all didn't expect things to go so wrong. This involved the payment of caregivers, so that hit people directly in the wallet. But this is also about the management of the funds for the Long-Term Care Act or the Health Insurance Act. This is about the change in personal data. If something goes wrong with that, it can also be huge in the soup It's about confiscating parts of the income to pay for example your care premium. That's what happens to people who are retired. If that does not go well or we have no idea that it is not going well, they do not pay their premium. That could have a huge financial impact. That is why I am asking the Minister whether it is really as solid as it is now pretending to be. Nobody's waiting for a second pgb-debacle. I will not say that the Minister is waiting for that either. But I prefer to be a little careful and don't see so much that we already have really new good shoes and so can throw away our old sturdy walking shoes. That is why I have tabled an amendment to ensure that the date of 1 July 2016 will expire and that the law will not enter into force until the Royal Decree governing its entry into force has been submitted to both Chambers. I call on the Minister to take the time to do this carefully. Get to work on this pay-as-you-go scheme first, make sure that the staff is sufficiently and well in order to move along and don't press 1 July 2016. I do not think that is necessary and not in principle. Just keep us informed of the moment when a good transfer can be made. Maybe you'll go first with one arrangement, you're gonna try it, and then you're gonna move on to the next one. I just listed all the six different regulations that are covered by the civil code. I think that's a very good way to do that. Then you can go back. When things are not going well, you can also say: we are taking another step back. I think the risk is too great if we take the leap from Amsterdam to The Hague in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. The Minister intends to transfer to the Central Administration Office certain tasks that have now been assigned to the Zorginstituut. The aim of this bill is to clarify what the Healthcare Institute will be primarily about, namely improvements in the quality of health care. The CAK will be the administrative point of contact for care. For my group, this reasoning is very clear. It sounds like a good and clear distribution, on which my group does not have much to say. However, I do have a number of questions. There were originally some bottlenecks. Have they all been taken away now? For example, what were the results of the chain tests? They were not known at first, which gave us a later date of entry. The CAK, the Central Administration Office, naturally has experience with regulations for citizens and the associated ICT systems, as the Minister also states in the explanatory statement. However, we can see that the CAK has been given a major new task, namely the collection of its own contribution under the Wlz and the Wmo. That was discussed this morning in the plenary. Does the Minister consider that, in addition to this great new task, the CAK is able to take this change into account at the moment? I also understand that the CAK is not new to the implementation of civil regulations, as these are officially referred to as. However, my group does not want any problems with the privacy of data when they are transferred. From the privacy impact assessment the PIA, if I may just mention my own name........................................................................................................................................................................... Can the Minister state what this is like now? Is privacy guaranteed? Will the correct data remain available? Is the VWS Department responsible for this? How does the control take shape? Then the Commissioner for ICT government, the CIO of VWS. Mrs Leijten spoke about the chief information officer, so I do not really know whether these are two different people. I now hear from the audience that this is the same person. Suddenly I got confused, Mr. Chairman. So I'm talking about the Commissioner for ICT government, the CIO. Well, I guess I'll just cut it short. The chief information officer also does this...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mrs. Leijten has come to offer a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u8	The confusion has been sown entirely by me. I miswritten it yesterday. That was my fault. It's the chief information officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u9	Very good. Now we have some clarity. The CIO of VWS said that the limited complexity of the IT transfer should be feasible, provided that good quality management is ensured. I would like to hear from the Minister how she is shaping this. The CIO also indicated that the project organisation should be improved. When I read it that way, I get the impression that the Healthcare Institute and the CAK indeed have a clear distribution, where the CAK is in the lead. Is this true? Can the Minister indicate how this will take shape in practice? Finally, my group has a few practical questions. Mrs Leijten has tabled an amendment asking for a postponement. How feasible and realistic does the Minister consider the transition of citizens' regulations from the Healthcare Institute to the CAK as of 1 July 2016? How is this ensured, both in terms of personnel data and in terms of ICT systems? Also with me came the image of the SVB, the pgb and all problems. I realise very well that it is about a very different kind of transition and that there is no need to build a whole new system. However, I would like to know how we can be convinced that this will all work out in the near future. Finally, can the Minister also indicate the extent to which the mid-year transfer takes shape as a result of possible audit problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr. Chairman. This bill concerns the transfer of citizens' regulations from the Zorginstituut Nederland to the CAK. Several colleagues have already said that this will help the Health Institute to focus more on the core tasks of package management and quality improvement, while the CAK will soon become a clearer point of contact for citizens. Legally, the bill doesn't really have much meat on its bones. It's pretty simple. In recent years, however, the General Court has warned us that the House of Representatives and the Cabinet are not paying enough attention to the implementation. The ICT drama with the personal budget is, of course, a good example of this. The House of Representatives has also carried out research into the government's ICT failure. The Elias Committee, which I myself was allowed to sit in, wrote the Grip report on ICT. That report shows that the government and the House of Representatives can still learn a lot in the field of ICT and that they can do a lot of things just better. This means that the CDA did not ask written questions about the implementation aspects of this bill once, but even twice. Actually, that's quite exceptional, because legally it's a simple bill. The CDA considers it important to be very careful on the implementation, because large sums of money are involved. It's tens of millions and it hits a lot of people. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for replying in the more detailed report. Those answers were better than the first. They offered more insight and information. The Minister also sent a number of reports to the House of Representatives. The CDA still has some questions about the transfer of staff, the transition from ICT to supply chain partners, finance and the "go/no go" moment. The employees go from the Zorginstituut Nederland to the CAK, while maintaining their legal status and working conditions. Answering several questions shows that this is particularly important because there is a lot of knowledge about the ICT systems in the head of the employees. The use of ICT systems also requires the right knowledge and skills. If the right people do not pass, there is a risk that insufficient knowledge and skills for ICT citizens' schemes will be maintained at the CAK. What's the status of the employees' transition? Is that continuity secure enough? Do the right people with the right knowledge pass? What are the remaining bottlenecks? The CDA finds it striking that 50% of the employees implementing the citizens' schemes are in permanent employment and 50% in temporary employment. The Minister for Social Affairs has previously indicated that he is aiming to employ many more people, but Minister Schippers writes in her replies that she wants to keep the 50/50 work in this way. Why doesn't the Minister choose to adjust that relationship? Why is it not following the advice of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment? The CDA still regrets that the Minister did not submit the bill to the Personal Data Authority. However, the Minister clearly states that these individual civil schemes are implemented strictly separately from the other CAK schemes. That's good to know, because that doesn't abuse the data. ICTs can therefore be strictly separate. Does this also mean that the employees will not be able to see multiple arrangements? You can have two different systems, but if the same employee can look into both systems and put the information side by side, you still have no guarantee of that strict separation. How has it been ensured that this does not happen? I appreciate the Minister's statement that a number of things have just not been settled. I really think it is a progress that is just being talked about very clearly and openly. One of these is the special attention to testing with the chain partners, such as the health insurance companies. They weren't in order yet. The latest tests have been carried out and the process is almost complete. They show "no blocking issues yet." That's new word. I can already see I'm going to speak at home of "blocking issues." Nice newspeak, so to speak. This raises the question of which bottlenecks remain for testing with chain partners and with which organisations they lie. Not only do they have to be with the CAK or the Healthcare Institute, but they can also be with all those other chain partners. Have the necessary ICT adjustments been made? The Minister has chosen to transfer the ICT systems of Zorginstituut Nederland "as is," she writes all the time in her answers, to the CAK. I assume that the Minister means by the term 'as is' that it is transferred unchanged. Is that a completely unchanged transfer? From the answers, the CDA also points out that this choice is partly motivated by the fact that ICT support for foreign tasks now has a respectable lifetime and is more maintenance sensitive. When I read that, it reminded me of the lyrics of a car salesman who is trying to sell an old barrel: "He has driven well for years, but is now a bit on the old side." However, the Minister states that this is not a problem because the user organisation can understand the operation. So that's the one mechanic who's been maintaining the same car for 20 years. That raises the following questions. How old is that system anyway? What is the expected lifetime? And most importantly, are the right people going to pass? Apparently, that system only works because there are some very expert people in that organization who just understand how that thing was ever built. We have a bill here with the abolition of world coverage. This will entail enormous changes in the way the foreign regime is implemented. What impact will this ICT system have on supporting foreign tasks? In addition, the CDA wonders whether the ICT Examination Office (BIT) has been involved in any way in this transfer of citizens' schemes and what the reasons for doing so have been or have not been. I'm gonna join the finance department. The Minister indicated that the normal implementation of citizens' schemes cost 22.9 million a year. These are the costs if you carry them out annually, but what are the costs of the transfer? And what costs do the organisations expect to make? I come to a very important part: when are we going to introduce it? The Minister called this the "go/no go" moment. Mrs Leijten and Mrs Dijkstra have already addressed this in detail. The Minister has set out two clear conditions. The first condition is that the transition from citizens' schemes from Zorginstituut Nederland to the CAK should not jeopardise the continuity of implementation. That is a very clear starting point. The second condition is that citizens and interested parties should not be hindered by this transfer. The readiness to switch is assessed in a so-called "readiness assessment" during a kind of ready-to-go moment. The Zorginstituut Nederland and the CAK determine at the latest three months before the planned transition date of 1 July whether the transfer can also take place definitively. So that's April 1st. That actually means that in two weeks' time it will be decided whether or not we can pass. So, what's the status of that dinnerss assessment? What problems are there, apart from the fact that this bill has not yet been adopted by the House of Representatives? The Minister also says that all parties directly involved must be ready. Does that mean the chain partners? I also find the follow-up step interesting. The Minister says that the quality assessment can take place on 1 April and that we could then continue on 1 July, but then we still have a safety net construction. Who's developing this safety net construction? What does it look like? When does it enter into force? I find that an interesting part of what the Minister says. In fact, she says: if we pass and if something goes wrong, we go straight back to the old regulations at the Healthcare Institute. I think that this is a very sensible institution, because we do not want any of us to make it a mess again. There is room to introduce this very carefully. As a CDA, I think it is important for the Minister to take all the space, that there is no administrative or administrative pressure to do so necessarily on that one date if it turns out that they are not yet ready. Why else would you rush? That won't be necessary, will it? If it is decided that we are going to do this, but if the implementation from 1 July shows that it is going to go wrong, is it indeed possible that the old systems will come back into operation and that there is nothing else going on? In short, the CDA wants to make sure that there is a proper transition from the scheme. Unfortunately, the CDA still sees too much and too often that government and ICT are an unfortunate marriage. Hopefully things will be different here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you very much. As President, I must also ensure that debates in the Chamber are conducted in Dutch. It would help if the government also used Dutch in the letters to the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Rutte of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u12	Mr. Chairman. I hope I don't burst into a huge cough, because I'm having a little trouble with that right now. If it happens, I hope you'll forgive me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u13	I wish you a lot of health.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u14	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. The tasks of the Zorginstituut have been greatly expanded and changed in recent years, with the support of the Lower House. As a result, the character of the Zorginstituut has changed considerably. In the past, it was a very large part of an executive institution under the heading of Health Insurance College; it is now a very important knowledge institute in the area of the insured package, medical guidelines and medical quality. This playing field is getting heavier, more important and more knowledge-intensive. As a result, the important executive tasks of the Zorginstituut are becoming less and less appropriate within this organisation, although these tasks are being carried out well to this day. Mrs Leijten quite rightly said that. The VVD therefore supports the government's intention to transfer the implementation of the so-called civil schemes from the Healthcare Institute to the CAK. It is logical to combine these tasks in an organisation that fully focuses on the implementation of care arrangements and on the maintenance of customer contacts. It is quite right that all employees who are still carrying out these tasks at the Healthcare Institute and who want to go to the CAK should also be allowed to join them. This ensures the knowledge and skills to implement these arrangements properly at the CAK. The steps towards this change are carefully taken. The Chamber is well informed and questions are also well answered. It's good to see that. In addition, the answers we receive show that there is strong external and internal monitoring of this change and that there is a relapse option. In addition, the Minister has repeatedly indicated that the final step in the transition from all these tasks will only be taken once she is sure that it is going well. However, there is some chill and cold feet for this kind of ICT-related tasks transfers. That's quite right. Mrs Bruins Slot made extensive reference to the research that has been carried out on this subject. It is not for nothing that we have created the ICT Test Office. The BIT has also shown all its teeth, as it turned out earlier in a debate this week. That's not all for nothing. Things haven't gone well in the past. Can the Minister therefore provide an insight into the final review framework that it will use to give the final "go" for the transition of tasks in April or not? We'd like to know. An earlier answer to questions has given some insight, but would we like to know what an important date in April, the review framework is to say yes or no definitively at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u15	The ICT Examination Office looks and advises. It has been decided that the opinion will be made public in any case, which will enable the Chamber to obtain something if it may not be so pleasurable. The BIT is indeed a good instrument. It came after a good and thorough investigation by our own Chamber. Would it not be wise for BIT to look at this transfer and ICT support too, so that we do not have a report that has been kept confidential, but simply the judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u16	That has been asked for before, I saw in the written answers. The BIT is looking at ICT projects with a size of 5 million euros and more. This is a project of 1.5 million euros. So that is really much smaller and is therefore not eligible for a BIT review. That's why the BIT review isn't here. Instead, two external audits have taken place. Also the chief information officer (CIO) that is an English term, I do not have a Dutch for that very quickly; chief information, let's not do that at the ministry of VWS has looked at it. The first two reports, those external reports, we got. We've just been able to see it. That's very transparent. That CIO's a civil servant. The Minister has chosen to put in a letter to the Chamber at least a great deal of what he has advised her to do, so that we were aware of it. Mrs Leijten also wanted that report yesterday. I said that it can't be because it's a report from an official. That's why we can't have that. That's not to be mysterious. It is not mysterious either, because the Minister has done a great deal about it. It doesn't work when it comes to a civil servant. In this case, we just have to do it like this. I don't think there's anything secret. We've gotten all the information we should have. So we can make a good assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u17	That wasn't exactly my question. We've agreed on a procedure with the ICT testing agency. If an ICT system meets ten or twelve conditions, let me take a look at Mrs Bruins Slot, I think there are ten conditions: it has to be tested by the BIT anyway. However, according to that procedure, the government may also ask BIT to review an ICT system that does not meet those conditions. Then we are no longer concerned that it is a view of a policy officer, who could perhaps have been wiped out. Then we've seen it completely. We have seen the personal budget on this subject this week has been a debate which has brought about a change in the attitude of this Chamber, which has taken corrective action towards government. If we could get ahead of that, that wouldn't be crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u18	The VVD is a strong supporter of BIT. The committee that advised on this was led by Mr Elias, also a VVD member. Let it be clear that BIT is doing a good job. This project is just much smaller than the standard fitting for which we use the BIT. I can therefore understand why this review has not taken place, particularly in view of the fact that many other tests, including external tests, have taken place. Keys are important. If the project had been much larger, it would certainly have been done by BIT. However, I understand that this has not happened in this case, as there have been a lot of audits and they have also been shared with the Chamber. In my group there are still some concerns about privacy. The CAK already manages a lot of data from a lot of clients. There are now a lot of new data and also some new clients. In the first instance, this is unlikely to cause problems in the area of privacy. That is clearly stated in answers received by the Chamber. There are clear arrangements, separate systems and probably separate employees. So you don't have a lot of issues. One of the reasons for transferring the arrangements to the CAK is to achieve efficiency in the long term, perhaps it will be possible to achieve system integration and staff will carry out different processes. If this is to be done, which is fair in itself, it is essential to pay close attention to privacy, to ensure that data is not easily linked and that customer data is safe. The VVD Group would like to hear how the Minister intends to guarantee privacy in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr. Chairman. The fact that the Health Institute is not the appropriate institution to implement the so-called 'citizens' schemes', schemes for non-insured persons liable for insurance, the mind-holders, missionaries, non-payers and treaty holders is not, in our view, at issue. The Healthcare Institute should be involved in determining whether there is good care, quality, advice on the insured package and the management of the Long-term Care Fund and the Health Insurance Fund. And especially that first quality, we need an extra boost. I'm gonna take a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u20	You do that, sir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u21	I've got a creepy cough. I never do. The Central Administration Office is acclaimed as an organisation with a lot of experience in the implementation of regulations for citizens. For example, the CAK would have experience with schemes for large target groups, associated ICT systems..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We saw this morning that that's not going very well. But the truth is that the Central Administration Office already works with three systems: one for old clients, one for transition clients and one for new clients. The CAK constantly changes project approach and working methods. Efficient is different. Is the Minister aware of this? The Deloitte and PwC reports do not really reflect confidence in the transfer. There are many ifs and buts. For example, Deloitte states that the timeline for 1 July 2016 is tight, because the migration of ICTs I would say: moo, moo, moo, moo from the Healthcare Institute to the CAK must be completed. There are doubts about that. PwC argues that important cross-compliance conditions still have to be achieved for ICTs. The introduction as of 1 July 2016 also has implementation technical consequences, such as a broken financial year and double accountability, by both the Healthcare Institute and the CAK. The last memo from the Healthcare Institute and the CAK concludes that it can work well........................................................................................................................................................................... I'd say, "Jomanda's back in the house." Or, when we talk about English and Dutch mixed up: Jomanda is back in the house. We have now understood that it was our intention to start the user acceptance test last week. But it was postponed because the transition to the CAK platform failed. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, This is a risk for the end date of the user acceptance test. If the dress rehearsal doesn't work out, why would it go well in April? Also, the exchange of files of all chain partners - mooie, mooie, mooie; thanks to Bulgarian fraud, pgb-trekking right, the CAK, own contribution - has not been successfully completed with all health insurers. Last Tuesday we could hear the Secretary of State of SZW say that the chain is responsible for the pgb-drama. That is what we will be able to hear about this arrangement in a year's time. Employees indicate that there are already problems with the implementation of the new scheme as well as with the uninsured. That just doesn't happen. Why would that go well after transferring to the CAK? We also hear sounds that the Zorginstituut eliminates overdue work by simply removing it. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I do not have the illusion that I get an honest answer to the question whether these signals are correct, because "wir purchase tie" is in the throes of this cabinet. The worst part is that the cabinet still seems to believe it. We do not believe in it and we will therefore vote against this transfer. Before tasks are transferred, it is important to put right the current chain problems first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u22	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the legislative changes needed to transfer a number of tasks from the Healthcare Institute to the CAK. These are both independent administrative bodies. It concerns the transfer of arrangements for specific groups: non-insured persons subject to insurance, non-mindful persons, missionaries, non-payers and beneficiaries of the contract. To sum up, these are citizens' regulations. The whole operation is motivated by the idea that citizens' regulations at the Quality Institute are actually a kind of fremdkörper...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u23	Now it's gonna be fun, Mrs. Wolbert. Haha.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u24	... which is much more consistent with the knowledge and capabilities of the CAK. The steering system is becoming less complex and the citizens will soon only have to deal with one administrative point of contact. In the long run, a smarter organisation may become possible. My group recognises the potential benefits of the recasting of tasks between the Quality Institute and the CAK. The amendment of the law as such should have been a piece of work for my group, because the tasks are transferred from one organisation to another and the Council of State has not proposed any changes or made comments on the legislative amendment. The questions which the Labour Party still has relate solely to the implementation of the transfer process. Such a task restructuring is easier said than done at this time. The whole preparatory operation has taken years and the actual transition has already been postponed for technical reasons. If the transfer is to take place now, three basic conditions must be met, as we read in the note following the December report last year. The Minister calls them. Firstly, the underlying legislative amendment must have been adopted by Parliament. Secondly, there must be sufficient guarantees that the necessary ICT will pass and continue to operate without significant problems, thereby ensuring continuity of the implementation processes. The Minister outlines that both organisations have carried out an external audit of IT migration, on the basis of which both organisations have taken action. Then there was a judgment given by the chief information officer; there he is again. The CIO's recommendations for project organization improvements and the distribution of responsibility have been introduced, as we read in the Minister's report. This introduction has also been tested by the CIO. The improvements of the project organisation are a critical point for my group. Can the Minister give us a little more image and sound? What was it about? How'd that go? What is the state of play at the moment? The Minister states that she wishes to continue to involve the CIO VWS. How's she gonna do that? Will the CIO continue to review the process periodically? How can the Chamber continue to be included in this? The Labour Party has another question about the CAK's chain partners involved in the transfer, if only because they provide the input of the data. Citizens' arrangements are changed to the CAK, but have the CIO's chain partners also received the green light? The Labour Party, and with us many political groups, has become a little shy from other factors with regulations, where it is wrong in the supply of data from the chain. The CAK is at the end and depends on the quality of that delivery. Have things changed? Are there no more weaknesses in the transition? Is this thing okay with you? Furthermore, the PvdA Group in the Minister's letter states that there is a great deal of confidence that the transfer is going to be okay. Eventually, however, the Chamber would not take itself seriously if it did not ask the Minister the ultimate question about the conditions and project conditions of the transition: are all signals really green on 1 April? Will the signal be given "finally" as of 1 April, so that 1 July is reached and then no more chunks are made? Is it true that there is still a relapse option from 1 April, but that there is definitely no going back on 1 July? I heard Mrs Bruins Slot ask questions about this too, but she had drawn a different conclusion from that. So I think it would be good if we were clear on this point. I cannot ignore the fact that the committee received an anonymous letter from at least one member of the Zorginstituut, which states that employees have difficulty moving and travelling between Amsterdam and The Hague. Now I can imagine that you will never keep everyone happy, and I can also imagine that no one is waiting to commute, but the Chamber has no further idea of the human consequences of this transfer. Can the Minister explain how the staff were involved in the process? The PvdA is very aware of the terrible consequences of a bad transfer for people and parties who depend on good data traffic and its individual impact for the correct handling of their interests. It is precisely because much goes wrong that the Labour Party is even more critical. My group concludes that what is necessary has been done. External audit parties have been hired, the project organisation has been adapted, the CIO has flown in and has advised positively, and the Minister hopefully will confirm, later in this debate, that all signals are indeed green. Then it seems to me that the Chamber continues to follow the course of events strictly. How will the Minister continue to keep the Chamber closely informed of the progress of this transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u25	I would like to thank you very much. The Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u26	Mr. Chairman. Why are we doing this now? We'd much rather talk about the quality aspects, wouldn't we? This is a bit tough for you to bite through. Actually, you'd rather not, because there are a lot of risks. Why do you want to take all these risks? Can't you just keep it the way it is? These are, of course, very legitimate questions. Over the years, however, there has been a significant development in the tasks of the Dutch Health Institute and the CAK. As a result of this development, the division between the tasks of the healthcare institute and the CAK can be improved. A logical ordering of tasks by organisation is important, because it gives you a focus in your organisation. If you say that the CAK is the point of contact for all kinds of citizen schemes in all kinds of areas, you have one point of contact. That's where the expertise and the systems are, and you can achieve efficiency benefits. Now the tasks are divided. The logical order may have been there in the past, but with the Quality Institute and with the professions and the training courses the package has already been done.The Zorginstituut Nederland has become much more a quality institute. So you come to the conclusion that if you really want to achieve a higher level of service and economies of scale in the implementation, you really need to do something for that. So we have said that it is in the public interest to have one administrative point of contact in the care sector. This makes the execution more transparent. That is the underlying idea of the proposal. Nothing goes wrong with the healthcare institute as it is now, but the healthcare institute has actually gotten a completely different focus and this is getting more and more into it. This does not render every euro you invest extra in the system as you can with the CAK. There you have everything together and you could do the basic administration for everyone at the same time. The CAK has a lot of experience with schemes for large target groups. That doesn't mean nothing ever goes wrong there; there is. The CAK has large ICT systems, many contacts with citizens, a lot of experience in implementing new, comprehensive arrangements for citizens and in implementing policy changes and is actively in touch with chain partners. Those chain partners are often the same chain partners and they can easily find that one window. The CAK also maintains contact with civil society organisations, such as representatives of clients and representatives of interests. The CAK is flexible and able to quickly respond to changing circumstances. It has set up a long-term care and youth information point and the Ebola Information Point for RIVM. So you can already see that you can use such a window slowly but surely more often. The CAK has a long experience as a front office, as an office and contact point for citizens. It can also offer a higher level of service and achieve economies of scale. What guarantees do we have that the CAK can handle these new tasks? Of course, the CAK was asked at the beginning of the project whether it can and will implement this scheme in the future. The CAK has responded positively to this. We asked the CAK for this because it has proven in the past to be flexible and able to respond quickly to changing circumstances and to tackle new arrangements. Very important in the transfer is that the staff and the systems of the healthcare institute are transferred to the CAK. That means the CAK doesn't have to reinvent the wheel. It can therefore develop further with these new arrangements into the citizen's care centre. I admit immediately that "as is" is indeed very ugly, but "as is" means that it is about the whole business, as it is now functioning. The whole business, as it is now, and the current employees are about to pass. That's the meaning of that term. As a result, the CAK has sufficient capacity instantly. This also makes the process fundamentally different from many other operations referred to earlier in the debate. It is not a new scheme; it is not a new ICT system and they are not new employees. Everything already exists and everything is already spinning. Actually, you're just changing providers; I'm getting distracted, because I hear Mrs. Leijten talking. You're actually getting another provider, but you're working with existing systems that people are used to. What integration of the tasks that pass, do I see before me? After all, they are different tasks. It is true that the implementation tasks are different in terms of regulation from the current tasks of the CAK. Those tasks are also not integrated with the current tasks of the CAK. In fact, I have arranged that no personal data should be exchanged between the tasks, but the reason why I propose to designate the CAK as a new executor is that the CAK does have a lot of experience with arrangements for large target groups, the associated ICT systems and frequent contacts with citizens. In addition, the CAK has all the experience I have mentioned and all the contacts through these arrangements. There has been no analysis of the overlap in the rules that apply to them in terms of citizens who use them. Under the foreign scheme, it is obvious that there is no overlap, but it may of course be that a dispayer also receives care, for example from the Wmo, and in both cases has to do with the CAK. The timeline of the proposal is very important. For me personally, it is totally irrelevant whether it will take place on 1 July, whether it will have passed over last January or whether it will pass a year later. I don't care. There is no policy need to say that it has to be on 1 July. There are other reasons. Staff have known since the moment I submitted the bill to the Chamber that was in spring 2014; now two years ago, the tasks are being transferred. They know the employees are coming with us. All these families are wondering whether or not they're moving and whether they're coming or not. That uncertainty lives among the staff. If we postpone this, it will have enormous consequences for the workers, not for me personally. Everything they have prepared for will then be postponed. It's been in the air for two years. Of course, there's something else going on. You are not going to develop a system if you know that it is being transferred and that the CAK is going to develop it under the other arrangements. Investment in and innovation in the system is therefore unstoppable. For me personally it is not so relevant, but there are arguments. If you can, you have to do it, but you have to do it carefully. We've already outlined what happened. The Zorginstituut Nederland and the CAK carried out external audits by Deloitte and PricewaterhouseCoopers. The CIO of VWS also looked at this and made an assessment of it. There were very critical points in that. I made that judgment confidentially available to the Chamber. If the project had been larger, the CIO advice would not have been automatically public. In fact, as a standard directive, the Cabinet has that a CIO opinion is an opinion of an official, intended to keep the Minister sharp and focused on ICT, a subject on which it often goes wrong. We have a specialization and focus on that. So it's an internal advice. The cabinet has decided that it will not be an external opinion. I can understand why the Chamber feels troubled, especially given the fact that this committee has just finished its pgbs, even though that is something completely different. Yeah, I've been having a lot of trouble, too. We all want to do it very carefully. That's why we need to have the same information position. That is why, following yesterday's request, I immediately made this opinion confidential. The Chamber now has the same information position. After the opinion with the critical points of the CIO, I asked immediately about the latest developments, because I had to write a letter to the Chamber. These latest developments have also been put on paper by the CDI for the Chamber and have also been made available for inspection. I had communicated its conclusion to the Chamber, but the rest consisted of e-mails. If I put them all on a pile, it would be a mess, so the CIO has it contained in a letter. For example, the Chamber can read about the critical points and about what happened to them. Mr President, I see that Mrs Leijten wishes to ask a question. I do not know if it is about the timeline, because I would like to outline it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u27	Is your question about this or about the timeline, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u28	About this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u29	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u30	I don't think it's a question of plugging in, plug out. I would like to say to the Minister: move from provider; a lot of things could go wrong. You can just sit out of the Internet for a while and have trouble e-mailing. I do not think that comparison is so beneficial. I have a question about the chief information officer's advice. If the Minister does everything so carefully and does not attach to the date of introduction, if it is done properly, is she prepared to ask the ICT Examination Office for an opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u31	We've been working on this for two years. If it was a matter of plug in, plug out, I would have done it very quickly and I wouldn't have been here two years after that. I have said that I personally do not care whether it starts six months earlier or later, but there are arguments that require a decision at some point. I'm referring to the employees. They have been in uncertainty for two years. If they can get a job somewhere else, they will no longer wait and move to another job. So there is also emptying if you drift for a very long time. I think you should postpone it if you consider it too risky and not careful on the basis of arguments. I'm gonna go in the timeline and tell you when those moments are gonna be there for us. I do not think that it is sensible to postpone it without any arguments. Mrs Leijten is asking for the BIT. She has also spoken about this in her questions about the process. I could add that question; I hadn't gotten to it yet. In any case, BIT did not exist when we started the preparations. After all, the BIT did not start until September 2015, and this is from spring 2014. Across the five million-dollar line, the debate has already been held. Furthermore, it is not the case that we do nothing if we do not let the BIT be tested. We have had Deloitte look at this, as well as PwC and the CIO. At every step we keep our finger on the wrist again very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u32	That is quite a long answer to a simple question: is the Minister prepared to allow the ICT Bureau to look into this? Even though this agency was set up later than the bill was sent to the Chamber: this is quite a question you may ask. This gives us a genuinely equal information position. You then have a thorough understanding of the feasibility and the clear objectives of a proposal. Turns out it's all possible. Then it goes to the government and eventually it becomes public. I believe that this instrument, which we have not made for ourselves for nothing, should not be used less, but more. That's why I asked if there was that willingness. From the Minister's answers, I kind of point out that this is not the case, but why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u33	That has everything to do with the timing. If Mrs Leijten had asked me in September 2015, I would have thought that perhaps we should. However, Mrs Leijten is now bringing it up. She's gonna ask me to do this on the day of the lawsuit. We didn't say BIT isn't here and we're not doing anything. We have had it done by all kinds of other institutions. Mrs Leijten would prefer it to be done twice, but I would say to her: if I had asked in September 2015. We have dealt with this with other tests, but if I say that I still want a BIT test because it is not there, I will say to the staff: sorry, you may have thought to pass on 1 July; I do not have any further substantive arguments, but you can already proceed with postponement. That is not something I will be thanked for, and I understand that very well. It is indeed a long answer for "no, I don't feel much for that."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u34	I think the Minister has replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u35	Yeah, I know, but now the minister says she doesn't feel like it because it wouldn't be good for the employees. However, this regulation affects all Dutch people. Citizens' regulations affect all insured persons in our country and that is all Dutch. I'd rather throw an extra test over that than one too little. I don't have the impression that you must necessarily take the staff as a reason to do something fast or less quickly. I think it is mainly a matter of care with Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u36	I've been standing for this for two years now, but a certain pace, without you rushing, I find careful, too. That's more my argument. However, if we come across things of substance, then there is another situation. It has now been tested twice and the CIO has tested it a third time. Now saying that we should have BIT test it a fourth time because otherwise it is not careful, I really do not think it is a good argument. After Deloitte and PwC looked at it, the CIO of VWS looked very critically at it. This is also reflected in the report which has been submitted for inspection, in which he points out a number of bottlenecks. We then asked what the situation was with regard to these bottlenecks. They have responded to this and it is also available for inspection. In the meantime, the situation is that at the end of March, a quality assessment will be carried out on several parts of the project. That's a readiness test. So that's for the go/no go on April 1st. This test concerns staff, ICT and the question whether the legislation has been adopted by the House of Representatives. On April 1st there will be a no-go or a go. In addition, the supply chain partners are currently being tested. The staff will have until 1 April to indicate who will or will not come with them. So on April 1st we can judge how many people go along and whether that is also the crucial people, the people with a lot of understanding of the system. Moreover, a number of people from the care institute are already working at the CAK in order to mitigate the landing in anticipation of the transition. On April 1st we know which employees go along and which do not. Then we know what is going on with the test of the chain partners, which, by the way, looks good. With a go, step one of ICT migration will take place from 1 April. The systems of the Zorginstituut will then be transferred to the CAK data centre. From then on, the CAK actually hosts the citizens' arrangements. The employees continue to work at and from the Zorginstituut. Chain partners will also further prepare the transfer from 1 April and send data to another digital mailbox. If the First Chamber agrees to the legislative proposal, the target date is that this will start on 1 July of this year, the CAK will also be responsible for civil regulations. On 1 July, ICT will only be integrated into the CAK's ICT systems and employees will be physically and on paper transferred to the CAK. Before 1 July, the justification for the transfer shall be checked on the basis of pre-established criteria. The CIO of VWS will give an opinion on this. That's the time table. If something is not in order with the staff, with the ICT, with the chain partners or if the bill is not adopted by the House of Representatives, then we shall postpone it, with the consequences of that. If implementation on 1 July is not feasible, the safety net construction can be delayed without any problems. In the event of a delay beyond 1 July, phase 2 of ICT migration, integrating systems with the CAK, will be postponed. The systems themselves will then be transferred to the CAK, but integration will therefore be postponed. Phase 1 can be extended without risk. I wouldn't like that if I didn't have to, but I can. To put it very clearly: once the systems are over to the CAK on April 1st, you can't go back. So this is a very important moment. Integration is step two. You might want to postpone it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u37	I think it's a little crazy anyway. At the end of March there is a readiness test, but on April 1st the CAK will host everything. Then phase one goes in. If we don't move everything, phase two can be extended. Isn't it weird that it's decided that the systems will be in the CAK by April 1st? At the end of March, it could be seen that people are not ready and need to take even more time. A step is already being taken on 1 April. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u38	No, it's not. It will be checked at the end of March whether it is possible or not. If the outcome is negative, there is no go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u39	So then there's not going to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u40	Then there's nothing left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u41	No hosting at the CAK on April 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u42	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u43	Phase one doesn't start?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u44	No. This is where the legislative proposal lies, whether the Chamber thinks it is a good idea for these arrangements to be transferred to the CAK. Implementation shall be carried out on the basis of the readiness test. I will, of course, keep the Chamber informed of the progress of this: did it go well or not? If it didn't go well, of course I have a responsibility not to let it go through. If I get the impression it's not going well, I'm not going to give my consent. So I'm gonna take a good look at the things we're doing at the end of March, and on that basis, I'm gonna decide on a go or a no go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u45	I wonder if we're not swimming in a trap like this. The bill has been there for two years and we have looked carefully at it. The Chamber will now have a chance to discuss it. What if we as a chamber say we're not finished? Suppose the House will say in a majority: give such advice from the ICT Research Office. We didn't set that up for nothing. You personally do not attach any importance to 1 July, in the sense that it can be done later, but it has already been decided that on 1 April the first phase will start and that at least the systems will be running at the CAK; it is still called the Health Institute but they will then move. Well, that's too tight, isn't it? Why don't we just swim in a trap? And what if something stranded in the First Chamber at a later stage? Then we can't go back. The Minister said: once we host at the CAK, we can't go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u46	I can host at the CAK without permission. I don't need the bill for that. I say quite clearly here: if the Chamber does not agree to the bill, I am not going to do so. We are doing this with the support of the Chamber and she knows that I can have it hosted by the CAK myself and that I do not need this bill for that, but I have already indicated that I am not going to do it without the permission of the Chamber. If that law isn't through the Chamber, I'm not gonna do it. We must do this very carefully and with the support of the Chamber. I want it through the House of Representatives. He knows that the systems will then pass from Zorginstituut Nederland to the CAK. Before I do the whole bups afterwards, I'll wait until it's also through the Upper Chamber. If the latter fails, this integration is simply not going to happen. Then we'll keep that loose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u47	The Minister has now indicated the timeline. What is within that timeline the safety net construction that is also mentioned in the answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u48	If the systems were to switch to the CAK by April 1st, you'd have a few days to say: this is not going well, we're going straight back. You're talking about it, you're going to work there. If things don't go well in the first few days, you'll have a safety net to go back to. If that takes too long, it will not be possible, because then all those chain partners will be delivering at the other counter. If you want to go back, you're gonna get a big mess. So let's not do that. The safety net I'm talking about in communication with you is that in the first phase you've just transferred. If things get stuck, you can still go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u49	That was in itself what was in the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber. Only, it also stated that it will be further worked out exactly how it is put together. So my question is who is going to work that out and how we are going to look at the further details. Apparently, it takes another pattern or another protocol to set it up properly. So I would like to zoom in a little bit more on exactly how that is going. Where the Minister himself will have to give a go or a no go at some point, I also think it is important to know in more detail how that goes on with the safety net construction. As far as I am concerned, she can come back to that in the second term, but I would certainly like to know more about it than what the Minister has said about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u50	There are actually two kinds of safety nets. The first safety net is the following. Once the systems have passed, you only have a few days to say: boys, there's something no one has seen, at least we keep the possibility of turning it back. Much more safety net of time you don't have because you're dealing with the chain partners that are going to deliver. The second safety net is in July. It may then be said that we are not going to integrate; we are going to postpone that decision for a while. It's possible. That's also the nice thing about doing it in phases, not in phases per scheme, which doesn't work, but in phases of integration of systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u51	Before that second moment, a new effect would be made. I was wondering how far it is by now and what it looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u52	That second safety net moment is if Parliament does not agree. If there are other reasons for which we draw up pre-criteria... I am not talking about criteria where you can reason afterwards, but about pre-established criteria with regard to the systems. I can give you those criteria. They are defined, objective criteria. If that's not fulfilled, you're not gonna take step two yet. You don't put it until those criteria are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mr. Chairman. The CDI has said that there is a limited complexity and that it is feasible, provided that good quality management is ensured. Questioned is how I will shape that. The collaboration between Zorginstituut Nederland and the CAK has improved after that advice. There is a comprehensive report on progress. A steering committee has been set up under the leadership of VWS, together with Zorginstituut Nederland and the CAK. We have given the CIO a firm position as an independent consultant to VWS. The CIO also determines the readiness test. The relationship between temporary and permanent employees has been asked. This relationship has arisen in particular in the case of new schemes, because it was necessary to clarify how much capacity the implementation really requires. The CAK will continue to investigate where employees can get permanent contracts in the near future. So we are not trying to maintain the 50/50 ratio. That doesn't seem like an end in itself either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u55	I think that would be wiser. In the note following the further report, it seemed to be an objective to keep it at 50/50. When will this decision be taken? Are we going to wait a long time or not? Of course, there are a lot of employees who have to make the switch from one place to another. There's a lot of temporary employees in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u56	There must be a clear understanding of what a scheme actually costs in terms of implementation, even if you have integrated it. With a new arrangement, you take a kind of margin, because you're not sure how many people you actually need for it. Once that is more worn out, you can immediately switch to the lake in permanent service of people. Did the chain partners also get the green light from the CIO? In February, the CDI reviewed the actions initiated by both organizations and assessed whether those actions, including chain tests, provide sufficient guarantees to ensure the proper transfer of civil schemes. The connection with the chain partners is tested through chain tests by the project organisation of the CAK and Zorginstituut Nederland. The CIO has not carried out or planned any chain tests itself, because it is a tester and has no active role in it. Before everything happens, he eventually checks if he has sufficient confidence. Why would a final transition go well if the dress rehearsal didn't go well? The user acceptance tests are still ongoing. So I cannot speak of failure. There were findings, bottlenecks or whatever you want to call it. Solutions are being worked out. Are the signals really green now? At the end of March, we have the readiness assessments, so I can't say they're green. Well, I'll inform the Chamber. If the Chamber adopts the bill and there is a "go/no go" moment, I will inform her about it, so that she can also take a good look at the findings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u57	The traffic lights on green, as we have often heard on another subject, namely the pgbs. Sometimes the traffic lights were not entirely green, but there was the intention to make them jump on green soon. How does the Minister view that in this case? Does it want to have the assurance that the identified bottlenecks have been resolved before the moment of going or not going? Or does it leave open the possibility that certain problems will be solved in the course of the process? Does it have to be perfectly clear at the transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u58	It's never riskless. There may always be a problem with systems, but it is a completely different situation than with the pgb. Then everything was new: the delivery, the system, the performer, the employees. All of this is already existing. Can something go wrong? Unfortunately, something can always go wrong. Guarantees can never be given. I must be confident that there is a sufficient basis. I do not want the whole process to end on minor details, but I really must have the feeling and the advice of our CIO that what is there has been done so carefully and gives us so much confidence that we can let it pass with peace of mind. If I postpone it for a year, we won't have that guarantee in a year's time. We have already postponed it once, because we did not think it was strong enough. So we are prepared to postpone if it is not strong enough. We've already proven that. At some point, you're gonna have to go over. That's tricky: April 1st is the "go/no go" moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u59	The Minister talks about small details, which should not allow the trial to end. If things that matter less are not quite in order, then she increases it on the bargain. That sounds more negative than I mean. The Minister takes such things for granted. Does it become clear to the Chamber what those smaller details are that do not prevent a moment of transition? I agree with the Minister that you cannot postpone indefinitely, but I am, of course, concerned about our role as a Chamber. We must remain very close to the question of whether it is really possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u60	The information on the basis of which I decide, I'll make it available to the Chamber. Especially given the history with the pgb, I understand very well that the Chamber wants to be on top of it. Even though it's unusual, I'll do it. The Chamber can always say: we have looked at it and we do not really like the Minister's go. It is a question of whether the Court agrees that these arrangements should be transferred. I involve the Chamber in the execution so that it can read what I do and on what basis I do so. How realistic is the transfer on 1 July? How do we guarantee ICT employees? Are audit problems to be expected? At the moment we see 1 July as a feasible date. If the readiness assessments are positive by the end of March, this will lead to a go. If the bill is dealt with in good time by the First Chamber and if in between things don't come our way, then it works. We make the decisions at a time. The ICT transition has been carefully prepared and will continue to be well monitored with tests. In terms of staff, we really know who will go with us before 1 April. The permanent staff of the Zorginstituut may continue their current work at the CAK. It's a guarantee of knowledge. A divorce agreement and transfer balance shall be drawn up for the budget to be transferred. In doing so, the auditors are consulted. Accounting division halfway through the year is more complicated but it happens more often. A number of key employees are not going to the CAK. They asked what would happen if they didn't come along and what the risks would be. During the transition of the tasks, the starting point is that the permanent employees of the Zorginstituut Nederland will move on while maintaining their position. In the interests of continuity, temporary agency workers and the external employees of the Healthcare Institute will also be given the opportunity to transfer to the CAK. Then we get the "it is as it is" situation. At the readiness check, one of the criteria is that a minimum number of staff from the primary departments will go to the CAK. So that's an explicit check. The ICT function requires a minimum of knowledge and staff. If employees with crucial knowledge do not go along, measures will be taken to transfer that knowledge to employees of the CAK. That's part of the check, too. We have been asked what bottlenecks exist in the testing of the supply chain partners. All chain partners have had functional chain tests. All these tests have been successfully completed. That's also confirmed by the chain partners. The readiness test will examine whether, among other things, ICT is ready. The readiness test shall take place on 15 March 2016. A social plan has been agreed in which the permanent employees who choose to go with them maintain their ARAR legal position and their ABP pension provision. Other issues have also been agreed to deal reasonably with the remaining consequences for employees, such as extra travel time. For example, the reception of extra travel time is done by flexible working in terms of time and location. The social plan complies with the state-wide agreements with trade unions. There can be no deviation from that. The Healthcare Institute and the CAK closely monitor the development of the occupation on the scheme. At the moment, the picture is that by far the majority of permanent and temporary employees pass over. Around 200 people have already visited the location of the CAK in the past week to get to know the new workplace. I have been asked how I have provided for the consistency between the new Improved Payment Measures Act and the transfer, either on a temporary or parallel basis. The transfer of civil legislation can take place simultaneously with the entry into force of the Improved Mispaying Measures Act. In the case of non-paying schemes, there is no need to change the systems. All changes fit within the current ICT system and the system of the defaulters can thus be transferred as it is now. A number of paramaters need to be adapted by the law improvement in the current system, but that is not a new process. We have been asked about the bottlenecks in the chain tests. Those tests had a positive result, as I said before. This does not guarantee that there will be or will be no bottlenecks in the coming period. Therefore, the ICT transition has been carefully prepared and will take place in two phases. The two-stage approach has advantages. It reduces the risk of error in the transition by cutting the complex process of transfer in two major steps. Moreover, any errors in data centre migration can already be detected and resolved in the first phase under the responsibility of the current executor. Both the Zorginstituut Nederland and the CAK actively steered the risks. The employees were taken in the following way. Several information meetings were held for the employees. Presentations of the CAK were held at the Zorginstituut Nederland about the social plan to introduce employees to the CAK. There is an HR consultation of the CAK at the Zorginstituut Nederland, attention in the staff magazine, a newsletter from the CAK, staff meetings about the progress and recently a tour of the CAK for employees of the Zorginstituut, both permanent and temporary. How is it prevented that employees do not have a permanent manager as their point of contact? There are employees at the Zorginstituut Nederland who have more than two managers who do not go to the CAK. All employees who move to the Zorginstituut Nederland will be given one manager. In most cases that will be their current manager, who will also go to the CAK. That is familiar and contributes to continuity. If the current manager does not go along, the relevant employee will be placed in a suitable position in the CAK organisation and will receive a new manager. The current staff agreements are laid down in the personnel file and are transferred in accordance with the provisions of the social plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u61	I think the Minister is referring with this answer to a question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u62	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u63	But I didn't ask about the managers. My question was about how functional managers are involved in carrying out the work. Two of them don't go. That's a risk to continuity. The Minister says all the time: there will be a "go/no go" moment and that will be in March, because we will pass on 1 April. Then it just happens. After that, we can't go back. Then I think she should be more careful about such a concern that we or at least I have been emailed by someone who works at the Zorginstituut Nederland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u64	Eventually, the test is done on staff. I told you. Either the staff will go along and the crucial functions will be occupied with it. Either someone doesn't come, and then someone else or a colleague has to be trained in time to take over that work. If the test doesn't work out enough, if it turns out that there aren't enough experts to go along with it, because the crucial positions drop out, then you're not gonna pass the staff test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u65	I am constantly looking for a way in which we can get a grip on whether the guarantees are being properly followed. It's March 10th now. Next week we will have that readiness, or whatever it is called, and by 1 April it will all have to pass. In order to prevent it from becoming a very bad joke, I would suggest that we get those tests. The Minister is not prepared to ask for such a BIT test, so I suggest that we take a look at these tests and that we take part in the decision on that "go/no go" moment. I really get the feeling that we are being sucked into this funnel, that everything is actually ready before 1 April and that we are reasoning towards it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u66	Sometimes you have to count to ten. I'm really doing that right now. I have to give a go/no go moment. I have just told Mrs Dijkstra that I think it is important for the Chamber to be able to watch. I'm gonna show the Chamber what I'm gonna decide on. Then what am I going to do to get you sucked into a funnel, Mrs. Leijten? You can just see on the basis of which I decide. If I give a go-moment, you can say: that is remarkable, because I see on page 3 a reason not to; come and explain that, Minister. I can't do much more than that, can I? I'll let you read into the considerations I'm making. How is the CIO involved? It has been added independently to the steering committee. In that steering group, he will also give his opinion on the achievement of milestones and readiness. The Chamber shall be informed thereof. Then I come to the project organisation CAK. Can I indicate whether it is in order, given the CIO's previous comments? The project organisation is reinforced by CAK and Zorginstituut Nederland. We have prepared an integrated project planning in response to the comments, both on main mileage and per detailed sub-project. We have a steering committee VWS, Zorginstituut Nederland and CAK in which the steering is conducted and it has been agreed that the CAK is responsible for the joint report on the progress of the project. We've been asked what happens when the signals are on red. The relapse option is around April 1st. When I give a no-go, it just keeps going crazy at Zorginstituut Nederland. How do I plan to recover the cost of the transfer and when will it be paid back? In 2016 and 2017, there will be significant savings of 5.5 million euros on the CAK's social plan, as people who were redundant at the WTCG and the SER will be mobilised on civil schemes. In addition, there are structural savings, due to reduced ICT maintenance, licensing costs, purchasing advantage, replacement of hiring staff by permanent employees of the CAK, efficiency on outstanding claims and more revenue. As a result, there will be more savings than costs in 2017. Those structural savings have been estimated at 2.4 million from 2018. On the total cost of implementing the 18 million citizens' schemes, we could therefore refer to economies of scale, purchasing advantages, efficiency gains, or you could call it around 13%. However, we must take into account the costs incurred for the transfer project and the costs of the social plan at the Healthcare Institute. They will not be recouped until 2019. I have been asked specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u67	I have a small factual question. What are the costs of the transfer and the social plan? What's the size of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u68	I should check that out. I see that the official's lodge indicates that it is EUR 7 million, but so did Mrs Bruins Slot herself. Is it true that after the transition of civil regulations, the Health Care Institute is moving? Is it true that The Hague has been excluded as a new location because of regional cohesion? The lease of the Zorginstituut expires. Zorginstituut Nederland must look for new housing. The area where it is now is being developed as a residential area. No new location has yet been determined. There's been a reconnaissance, but the search hasn't been completed yet. The site is determined on the basis of a number of criteria, in consultation with VWS and within national frameworks. Is privacy guaranteed, are there sufficient personal data available, is the check on order and is the Minister of VWS responsible? Yeah, just like it is now. The nature and extent of the personal data to be processed do not change. The bill provides that the CAK may not make a link between the files of the individual schemes and that it may not use personal data processed for a civil scheme for another task. The CAK is responsible for the processing of personal data and for the privacy regulations. It must and will comply with the privacy regulations, just like the Healthcare Institute. The Minister of VWS supervises the independent administrative body CAK. The CAK will want to use employees flexibly. How does it do that, given the separation of tasks related to privacy? There are different files and systems. They can't be paired. The CAK may not use the personal data processed for a civil scheme for any other task. It can, as is the case now, use an employee for multiple schemes with own files. Of course, two or more schemes cannot be deployed simultaneously, as the CAK is not allowed to link files of individual schemes. Is there a business case? I have just said where the efficiency benefits are and where the costs are. I see here that the one-off project costs are EUR 7.3 million in 2015 and 2016, to be precise. The ICT share is 2.7 million. Mr President, I believe that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u69	Thank you. We will continue with the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u70	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the transfer of citizens' rights will take place on 1 April. That is the first stage. Then the systems are going to run in a different place and that can't be reversed. So there's no relapse option anymore. It may be that in the migration phase, that phase 1, the phase in which the move is being moved and in which the move is being tested, something does not go as we wish, or that the law is not being passed during that phase. Suppose that happens, then the step is taken and there is no relapse option. Actually, I don't think that's so neat. The Minister can say that all of this is happening anyway. That is true, but she also says she wants to do it all nicely in parliament. Then why doesn't she wait for the decision-making in the First Chamber? I hear there's going to be a "go/no go" moment between 15 March and 1 April. However, everything will be ready as of 1 April. I wonder if we're gonna get sucked into a funnel like that. By "we," in this case, I mean the Minister. What are the key functions of the staff? Is the staff known here, for example? Does the staff think that the right considerations are actually being made in this respect? And if there is a no-go, then that means, I think, that phase 1 is also being postponed. It is said that the staff are keen to do so and the staff should not have to wait any longer. I think that is actually an opportunity argument. I don't think we should do this because this has been announced to the staff. Well, I've been there before when politics set things off around here. And I've been there before when politics set things up too fast. I think it should be done properly. If it is still being examined whether it is feasible and whether it is being done properly, why can we not still take the time to have the ICT test carried out? To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ICT Review Office (BIT) is assessing whether a project is pursuing a clear and feasible objective;]] [[Whereas the transition of citizens' schemes concerns all Dutch citizens;]] [[believes that this should go well;]] [[Considering that the actual transfer of citizens' schemes from the Healthcare Institute to the CAK is already taking place on 1 April 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to have an ICT test carried out by the BIT for this transfer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34203-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u71	I also have a question about this reconnaissance for the future housing of the Healthcare Institute. In my first term I asked: isn't it true that it says that The Hague is not an option as a place for future housing? That was the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u72	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. I thank the Minister for the way in which she promises to include the Chamber in her consideration of 'the moment of going or not going'. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm trying to avoid all English terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u73	I like this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u74	I have already said in my first term that for D66 the division between the Dutch Health Institute and the CAK is a logical division. We therefore agree with the Minister on this. I have to think of a working visit I made myself at the Zorginstituut Nederland. At that time I saw how the new tasks in terms of quality, innovation and training are being carried out there. This may still be the case, but it is very important that we avoid problems in the future. We don't want this to go wrong at some point. So it makes sense that the CAK is going to do this. It is good to hear that the Minister is not satisfied with traffic lights that are not entirely green unless they are detailed. She also says that the Chamber gets a look at that. I have one more question for the Minister about privacy. She says that the direction lies with the CAK and the Zorginstituut Nederland. They shall be responsible for the continuity of implementation and the like. What role does the Minister himself still have when it comes to monitoring privacy? The Minister has indicated that she is a supervisor. How's she gonna check this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u75	Mr. Chairman. I want to thank the Minister for the answers. For the CDA it is paramount that it does not want to repeat previous ICT dramas here in the Lower House. Think of the personal budget and a number of other things. That is why care is important. I understand the Minister's argument. She says that staff has been in uncertainty for two years. It also seems to me to be extremely annoying to be in such a situation. However, it is important to really check whether ICT is ready for this. I'll hear that in the Minister's answers. I'll give you a brief summary, see if I've understood the minister correctly. Before 1 April there is an initial assessment, on which she says whether or not we are going for it. On the basis of the latest tests, the Minister can also decide before 1 April that we are not doing it now, because we need to do other things first to make sure that we are really ready. If she says we're gonna do it before 1 April, the second review is for 1 July. Then we'll see if we're really ready. A readiness test shall be completed for this purpose. Is that a correct summary of the two balancing moments in this process? We received a letter from the CAK and the Dutch Health Institute to the Minister. The letter states the following paragraph: "In case anything goes wrong at any stage of the transfer process, we have designed a safety net construction. A competent external party is now working on a detailed roadmap to activate the safety net construction." I have three further questions about this. What external party is developing that? Is that safety net construction ready by now and the playbook is there? Are there any pre-established independent criteria, which the Minister mentioned? What does the playbook look like? The latter is actually a fourth question. I have just said something about the pre-established criteria. The Minister said that we have already established criteria to which we are testing. Are these the three criteria she mentions in the answers to the questions? Are these the criteria adopted in the Lower House, the criterion on staff and the criterion on ICT? Or is she talking about any more substantiated criteria? I'll come to a conclusion. Maybe I didn't get enough in the Minister's answers. Sometimes that's what wants to happen. However, I had asked a number of questions about the status of foreign tasks and about how much the ICT string is, if we really go to Dutch terms. How old is that system anyway? What is the expected lifespan? Are the right people going about this? What impact does the global coverage bill have on the implementation of the ICT system of foreign tasks? In the answers it seemed that this is actually the most critical system and that there are still real concerns about whether it will survive a relocation to the Zorginstituut Nederland, to put it this way. I'd like to get some answers from the Minister. The CDA would really be sorry if we changed our arrangements again and then got a mess again. In itself, I am confident that the Minister will be able to decide no if it is not possible. I would recommend that she do so. That is also one of the conclusions in the report of the Elias Committee. Sometimes it is necessary to use an English term "fast to failure": quickly decide not to do something if it is not possible. I get the impression that the Minister is taking the space for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u76	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD Group, too, many thanks to the Minister for the comprehensive and clear answer to the questions that have been asked. It is very good that she has given a glimpse into her consideration process later. Mrs Dijkstra calls it "going/not going," I call it "start/not starting"; it's just how you translate things. English terms are not used, because then the President gets angry and we should not want to, which would be a pity. It is very good to realise that the proposal before us is about the basic choice, as the Minister said: do we think that these tasks can be transferred from the Healthcare Institute to the CAK? In my first term, I have already made it clear that the VVD thinks this is a sensible choice, not because the staff at the Health Care Institute are not doing well now, but because the character of the Health Care Institute is changing considerably and this may be a problem in the long term. And we have to get ahead of problems. It is very good that the Minister has not yet taken the final "start/start" decision and has included the Chamber. It has a clear review and assessment framework. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked about the details. I have seen the Minister's answer to this question as follows. The test of the chain partners must be good, the crucial people must go along with it, the ICT must be in order and the CIO also thinks something about it. All this together should be the review framework for the Minister to decide "we're going to do it" or "we're not going to do it" before 1 April. Is this list correct or are there any other considerations? It is very good that the Chamber will be included in this when the time comes. Also many thanks for the clear answer of the questions about privacy. It is very good to hear that systems and data will not be linked and that this will safeguard privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Agema has waived a second term. Then I give the floor to Mrs Wolbert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u78	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her answers in the first term. The PvdA group has heard her say that there are still two ultimate key moments on which it can be decided to continue or stop. However, it is interesting to see the translations of the various groups of "go/no go" decision over and over again. Thank you for the full transparency of the Minister's work and for sharing the criteria and reporting with the Chamber. I am left with all the people involved to wish the people of the Healthcare Institute, the CAK and the undoubtedly enormous staff around them much strength, especially during this last period of the preparation process. I know from the time I wasn't in politics that the last phase is very heated. At that stage all sails must be added to check and double check... Now I do it anyway! I mean to check and check again before all signals are turned green. I wish everyone every success, so that all we have to do from the Chamber is to congratulate them on their implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u79	I would also like to thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I shall suspend this debate for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u80	Mr. Chairman. There's a bill in place to send tasks to the CAK. That's very clear. In our view, this brings all kinds of improvements and benefits. If the House agrees, it will vote in favour. If the House does not agree, it will vote against. It is true that 1 April is irreversible, but we do have a "go/no go" moment for that. If the House does not want that, it should simply vote against or vote in favour of the amendment. We are talking about these considerations here in the debate. So that's very clear. Mr Rutte mentioned a number of criteria that I set before 1 April. The bill is one of them. Without a passed bill, a go-moment really doesn't seem justified to me. So it is very clear which package is ahead and the Chamber can draw up its own mind about it. We have agreed that this must be done properly. That is also why we are two years in transition, which has been said to be fairly clear and whose complexity is reasonably limited. However, we have already postponed this transition once. That was because there was no time pressure on it. However, Mrs Dijkstra was quite right to say that there are risks if you leave those tasks at the Health Institute in the Netherlands and if you delay the transition longer. Mrs Bruins Slot asked: what about these foreign arrangements? The systems for that are old, but they work well. However, they do require maintenance and parts of them need to be renewed. That is postponed, because of course you do that with the new one because you can take other things into account. It's been going on for two years now without making those investments. There are risks of this too in the long run. Therefore, it is not only the personnel who are being weighed up. It is also being considered whether we should continue to invest in ICT systems. If you don't do that for a long time, the risks will increase. So that complex is ahead of us. Isn't The Hague an option for housing? The Zorginstituut has indicated that it has not explicitly excluded The Hague but that it is explicitly searching in the region of Amsterdam/Utrecht. I will begin with the first ICT implementation of the foreign regime. A performance test was issued by the Zorginstituut Nederland (Zorginstituut Nederland). On the contrary, the legislative proposal is a simplification. There is therefore no additional risk for the implementation of the foreign schemes. On the contrary, it makes it easier. I'm coming up on the safety net construction. What's it like? I understand that external eyes are watching, but that this is not done by an outsider. There's gonna be a lot of extra tests in the playbook. The CIO Empire is watching again. That's not an outside party, but it's about strange eyes watching. This will start once the go decision for phase 1 has been taken. How do I ensure privacy at the CAK? I said that wrong. I'm responsible for the CAK as an executive. For example, I approve of his annual plan and his budget. In that sense, we direct that zbo, but the College of Protection of Personal Data, which is now called the Dutch Data Protection Authority, monitors the way in which privacy is handled in the execution. Mrs Bruins Slot said that we do not want to repeat ICT dramas. I agree with her, but long-term uncertainty and not investing also have a risk. All in all, there is a difficult decision to make. That's always true, because if you don't do something, it's gonna go crazy for a while, and I won't, at least in my ministry, be bothered. The question is whether the situation will not become much more risky in a few years' time. We can make a move now. By the way, we can make it later, but we actually have to make it now. With regard to civil regulations, you may ask yourself whether you should not have a single point of contact for this purpose, or whether it is not more logical to classify the government in this way. It is a difficult decision, but I think we are here for a better organisation of the government and thus for a better service to the citizen. Eventually a go-moment follows, when we have sufficient certainty and careful steps and enough strange eyes, which force, have been able to watch. Our CIO plays a rather solid role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u81	I would ask you to give an opinion on both Mrs Leijten's motion and amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u82	In the Leijten motion on part No. 17 The government is requested to have an ICT test carried out by the BIT for this transfer. I have already indicated that Deloitte and PwC have carried out heavy audits, that the CIO has given advice and that we will carry out a readiness assessment by the end of March, which I will then submit to the Chamber, including the CIO's opinion. I'm not in favour of a BIT test, which is why I don't recommend the motion. The Leijten amendment in part No. 16 regulates a heavy suspension procedure at the First and Second Chambers for the entry into force of the KB. If the First Chamber and/or the Second Chamber do not agree to the draft, the Royal Decree cannot be brought into proceedings and therefore the law does not enter into force. Mrs Leijten has a preference for starting the transfer from 1 July 2017, which is a year later than planned. The amendment would give the government extra time to carry out the transfer step by step. I would advise against this amendment. In the past period, everyone has worked very hard to achieve this transfer on 1 July 2016. That date was established in consultation with the CAK and Zorginstituut Nederland and is considered feasible by all parties. Because such a transfer affects employees at the Health Institute, both in terms of work and private life, they have been informed at an early stage of the planned transition date so that they and their families can prepare themselves for this. In addition to the uncertainty involved, I have indicated that we will not pass if I do not believe that we can. So I am not going to decide that we will pass, but on the basis of all the tests we have agreed, I will indicate whether I think it is justified or whether we should postpone the transition again. The author of the amendment also states that it would be possible to transfer the arrangements one by one. However, this cannot be done in the light of ICT, because the schemes use the same ICT systems. Two different organisations would then have to work on the same system. This increases the risk of errors and will lead to additional costs. There is also a longer period during which double costs for licences are to be paid. In addition, communication to citizens will have to take place at several times, which will also increase the cost of communication. Employees of the Healthcare Institute do not necessarily work for any of the schemes. They will work partly for the CAK and partly for Zorginstituut Nederland. With delay, the development of civil regulation also stagnates. It is also at the expense of the quality of the implementation. Moreover, the explanatory statement to the amendment suggests that much needs to be changed in the Improved Mispaying Measures Act, but that is not the case. The systems do not need to be changed before the law on default schemes. All changes fit within the current ICT system. The system can, even as it is now, be over. However, a number of parameters need to be adjusted within the current system due to the law improvement of default measures, but that is not a new process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u83	I asked if the civil regulations could be transferred separately, but that is not in the amendment. In the amendment, I mean that we first introduce the law on the improvement of non-paying measures and then transfer the citizens' regulations as a package. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what it says. You could read it differently in the light of the question I asked in the first term. I did not get an answer to that, but I now understand that this cannot be cut. That doesn't make much difference to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u84	I understood it that way, but Mrs Leijten had apparently asked the question in the first term. I've answered it now. It is clear that I am not recommending the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-10-tweedekamer-11.u85	I would like to thank all those present, particularly the Minister. Next Tuesday we will vote on the amendment, the bill and the motion.
