ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Verhoeven of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u2	Before we start, I'd like to make an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u3	I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u4	We are talking today about the European summit and about the agreements that are being made between the European Union and Turkey. Last Sunday Ankara was the scene of terrorism. I would ask you and my colleagues to keep a minute's silence in memory of the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u5	Mr Kuzu, this kind of request is not part of the beginning of a debate. You should have let me know sooner, or through the Bureau or through the Registry. There's been a lot of attacks. We would have considered it, and we would have informed you of what we would do with it. But to do it this way right now, I find it a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u6	I'm asking you. It's an order proposal. I would also like to know the opinion of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u7	Then I'll start with you, Mr Verhoeven, because you're standing next to me at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u8	I'm a little surprised by this proposal. I have no objection to it in itself. It does have a precedent effect. It's going to be a bit of a selective way of dealing with terrible events that happen every day in the world. So I'm not sure. I wonder what the rest of my colleagues think. It's also hard for me to be the only one to say that I'm in favour of it or against it. I think it is a nice proposal, but it would have decorated Mr Kuzu if he had done it a little earlier. Then we could have thought about it a little more quietly and then maybe it could have gone a little more orderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u9	Let me be clear, Mr. Chairman, I'm not in favour of that. It's not exactly an order proposal either. You rightly said that we always want to do this in a dignified and orderly way and not so sorry for my words, it will be well meant in a political quickie. You have to do this in a good way. I think this is a contempt for the victims. Those people deserve better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u10	I cannot ask everyone to come to the interrupting microphone, because this is a free matter. Anyone who wants to say something about it can do it. I see Mr Buma walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u11	I would like to say one thing about it and then a little bit more firmly. This is not an order proposal. I think that this proposal by Mr Kuzu puts everyone in an extremely uncomfortable position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u12	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u13	Mr Kuzu must also be aware of this. In an extremely serious situation, he does this. This is a different kind of proposal and it must be done entirely in accordance with normal procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u14	That's right. I'm gonna stop this discussion anyway, if you don't mind. Mr Kuzu, it is really customary to make such requests through the Bureau. If you had informed me of this in advance, I could have informed you of the way in which we deal with it. We do a number of things and some things don't. In fact, I do not think it is useful to debate it now during this debate. Let me put it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u15	Thank you for your caution, Mr. Chairman. I know enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u16	I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u17	Mr. Chairman. We're at a historic crossroads. Is Europe able to tackle this refugee crisis together? Can we, as Europe, work together with leaders such as Erdogan without having to negotiate, without abandoning our values? Because the individual Member States and Europe as a whole do not have refugee policy in order, we are standing our backs against the wall. That's a bad negotiating position. The provisional deal with Turkey has many shortcomings, but at the same time cooperation with Turkey is needed for a common European approach to the refugee crisis, where war refugees can end up safe in Europe. My group has already raised many critical questions through the actual round of questions. The government's replies were reassuring on paper but in practice insufficient. Crucial details are still missing. D66 therefore wants the final deal to be submitted to the Chamber before the Netherlands agrees. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. D66 also wants to prevent people from risking their lives in boats, but we have great concerns about the cow trade with refugees and the dragging with people. A fugitive who's risking his life is sent back. In return, someone is taken from a Turkish camp to the European Union. At least that is the proposal that is now on the table. Isn't this a perverse incentive for Turkey to let the boats through? If we manage to keep the boats ashore, how generous will Europe take refugees from the region? How do we prevent a waterbed effect, whereby refugees venture on new routes that are even more dangerous? Fortunately, the cabinet writes that the rights of each asylum seeker must be respected, that Greece should have access to adequate legal remedies and that Greece should review and assess individually. How do we ensure that Greece does this? If the hotspots have been so difficult to achieve over the past few months, why would all of this suddenly happen? How can there be sufficient capacity to receive, record and treat each individual instantly? Does an asylum seeker receive legal assistance if he objects if the application for asylum is declared inadmissible? The same applies to a Turkish journalist who is threatened in Turkey, or a Kurd who is not safe. There must be sufficient guarantees that everyone is assessed individually and does not go back to Turkey collectively by returning ferry. Does the UNHCR act as an independent supervisor in this regard? Will the Prime Minister plead for that? Does he see Turkey as a safe third country? This important question has often been asked, but has not yet been answered in writing. My group understands the idea behind this deal, but at the same time it is not much more than a thought in this form. There are many conditions that still have to be met. Only then can a final verdict be reached on this deal. What makes the deal even more dubious is the agreements on visa liberalisation and accession to the European Union. In fact, it makes no sense to make these two parts part of a deal about refugees. Either it raises false expectations on the Turkish side or we make more flexible demands under pressure from the EU, so we are negotiating. It simply doesn't make sense to join the European Union in refugee shelters. The strict requirements of membership, the Copenhagen criteria, must not be undermined. The Prime Minister has always said that. I ask him again: can he assure me that this will not happen at all? I am asking the same question about accelerated visa liberalisation. Of the 72 hard requirements that always apply, Turkey does not meet 46. That should be completely different within two and a half months. Or are we gonna turn a blind eye for the next few months? That is not acceptable for D66. Turkey as a neighbouring country of Syria is an inevitable partner to cooperate with, but the deal with Turkey is not the solution to the entire refugee problem. There are also millions of refugees in Lebanon, Jordan and northern Iraq. These people must also be given perspective: not only a roof over the head, but also safety for women, education for children and access to the labour market. Europe must also enter into structural, substantial and multi-annual partnerships with these countries. Europe must not only say that there must be reception in the region, but also actually act in accordance with that ruling and provide sufficient support to those countries and to that region. Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue for this at the European Summit? After all, the region beeps and cracks. There are 700,000 refugees in Jordan, 1 million in Lebanon and 2.5 million in Turkey. Is the Prime Minister prepared to commit to ambitious resettlement from Turkey, but also from Lebanon and Jordan? A humanitarian disaster is taking place on our own continent. Thousands of people are stuck in the national solutions of our own Member States. Everyone knows the images from Idomeni, near the Greek-Macedonian border, of newborn babies who are washed in tents with water from plastic bottles and of people who wade massively through a river to get around the fences. These people must be brought to safety as soon as possible. The promised relocation of asylum seekers from Greece, which is 160,000, must take place as soon as possible. Is the Prime Minister, as President of the European Union, prepared to show leadership and break the deadlock? Europe is at an historic crossroads. A common approach is crucial to bring people to safety, here or in the region. The goal shouldn't just be to reduce the flow. Let us not forget: all those people who are fleeing war are the ones with a problem, not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u18	I do not know if Mr Verhoeven has received it, but his group chairman has today presented a national action plan on the subject he himself is talking about. I had hoped that Mr Pechtold himself would be here to put forward that plan, but he is not here. In fact, Mr Verhoeven is not devoting a single word to it. How is it that everything about this is said in the media and that at the place where it should be, the D66 Group is silent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u19	I understand Mr Buma's question. This is a debate on the European summit that took place last week and on the summit that will take place next week. I was standing here last Tuesday and asked for this debate. At that time, all my fellow Members said: we think it would be good to have a debate on this. I am conducting this debate as a Europe spokesperson for our group. Mr Pechtold is at our refugee evening in the old Ministry of SZW. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u20	So that's it? So that was the national action plan "Save the Netherlands and come together"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u21	If that's your question... I thought you were a little concerned about Mr. Pechtold's absence or health. But if that's your question, I'd like to say something about that, of course. I think it would be very good if I did that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u22	No! It is sad that Mr Verhoeven says: if you want it, I would like to say something about it. I did not call for a kind of god peace around asylum policy in no detail in nrc.next, I think. If we're gonna agree on this, we're gonna have to do it fast and then we're gonna have to do it here. I would say: just take the plan home under the arm, talk about it again in your own group and then we'll see when it's really done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u23	That is very nicely said by Mr Buma. This is exactly where it goes wrong. This is just catching the attitude of each other flying. Perhaps Mr Buma is disappointed that he does not have the right person in front of him. The D66 refugee plan is not a new plan either, not a plan with all new D66 proposals. That's not the pretence either. It is right, listening to all the proposals that have been made in the Chamber in recent months, to raise a hand, to establish a link with other parties in order to try to move forward with each other. Mr Buma now makes the mistake that has always been made so far and shoots into the reflex that happens every time: catch flies and others take the measure. He says to Mr Verhoeven: you are not good enough, I would rather discuss it with Mr Pechtold. Oh, that's so cute. We have presented a plan containing proposals drawn from different plans from different parties. We respect those proposals from other parties. We welcome the fact that Mr Buma has put forward proposals on a reinforced external border. We welcome the fact that the VVD has made proposals on reception in the region. We welcome the fact that the PvdA is brave and says: we want to find a solution, including a European solution. We said, "Let's go talk to each other." And then Mr. Buma walks straight to the microphone and says: pooh, pooh, pooh, I don't like all this, I don't want this, take the plan with you again. I think that's a missed opportunity. I hope he'll think for a moment that he'll come to his senses and think: well, let's talk about the content of this plan in a moment instead of the person who's standing in front of me right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u24	At least it's a novelty that D66 blames others for taking someone else's measure. Luckily, D66 never does that himself. I still see Mr Schouw, almost exactly a year ago, literally tearing the VVD's plan in half in front of a camera. That was a very constructive exercise. Anyway, I'm glad that after a long silence, D66 now says, "We want to go." That's fine. However, it is not clear to me what it means. To make that clear, we are having a debate like this. D66 sweeps a number of parties together and says: with that we have a national plan. But what exactly does D66 want? I hear Mr Verhoeven asking all kinds of questions, legitimate questions. However, these are all questions that do not lead to solutions. What is the content of the D66 plan on the basis of which, according to D66, the current refugee crisis can be resolved with broad support?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u25	Mr Zijlstra began his question with the word'silence'. He had observed silence or something at D66. We have made constructive and concrete proposals on this issue at various times since 2013. I can list a whole list: more rescue capacity in the Mediterranean, a European border and coastguard and structural partnerships with countries such as Lebanon and Jordan. That is the first thing we have proposed. I believe that we were even the first to raise the issue of the flow of refugees from Syria through written questions. I also mention a genuine European asylum system, a fair distribution key, resettlement, language lessons from day one and giving people a chance to work. D66, therefore, has also expressed many ideas about this problem in recent months and years. Mr Zijlstra asks what D66 wants now. We want to try something with a number of parties that have made concrete proposals in recent months. For example, there is the VVD's plan for strengthening the external borders and for reception in the region. The VVD seemed to mean shelter in the region: we really don't want anything to do with it; arrange it there, then we are done with it. But if you're taking care of the region in an ambitious way, it's a very good idea. I have just mentioned Mr Buma's proposal. There is also Mr Samsom's proposal. There have been many good proposals from parties. D66 has made proposals of its own. Let us not stick together with all 16 groups in our own right, which is a bit of a propensity in this house, so I now notice. I didn't expect that, by the way. I had hoped to meet constructiveness with my colleagues. That's Mr. Pechtold's outstretched hand. Anyway, you will. It'll take some getting used to. So we want to make a good, coherent plan with a number of plans. Then, as a country in Europe, we can show that it can be different from just being divided. And then perhaps our Prime Minister can get those 28 Member States on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u26	I'm gonna stay out of value judgments for a while now. Back to the content. It is only to be praised that a party like D66 says: we want to achieve something wide with other parties. It is good that you acknowledge that other parties, like your own party, have made proposals. But there's something else unclear to me. If you present a national plan, I expect it to be clear which parts of what plans you want to sweep together. What do you think about the plans of Mr Roemer, Mr Klaver, Mr Samsom, Mr Wilders or Mr Buma or the VVD? What's this interplay? Where does it all come together according to D66? Because the only thing I hear you say is process-wise: a lot of parties find something, we wipe it together with dust and look, and we make something out of it. I'm so curious about that "what." What does D66 think should be done to bring the refugee problem, the humanitarian tragedy, under control? It's not clear to me yet. I hope that you will be able to make that clear in the second answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u27	Of course, it wouldn't be good if I stood here with a processive duster and look. That wouldn't be good. I have just mentioned a number of concrete proposals from other parties in this House. Mr Zijlstra asked for this. I said that these proposals could be part of a national plan. That was, among other things, Mr Buma's proposal on better surveillance of external borders. That's a very good idea. Mr Klaver has made good proposals to ensure that resettlement is carried out in a good way, so that there is also a legal asylum route. We think that Mr Klaver's point is a good idea. Mr Zijlstra's group itself has also launched plans, on which I have already said something very warm. This was about shelter in the region, provided that at a level where this shelter has real added value for people fleeing war. So not: we are closing down the external borders and we are closing down Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. Mr Samsom even received a very positive tweet from Mr Pechtold a few weeks ago. Mr Pechtold is not here today, but he did send a very positive tweet about Mr Samsom's plan on ferries when he stuck his neck out. So a lot of concrete elements have already been mentioned. We also have a number of concrete parts ourselves. Let people be equal in our society and get opportunities. You bring that together, you're gonna come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u28	Good. Then I would say, as Mr Buma said, do a little extra work. Meanwhile, the government has happily continued to govern over the past year and to try to give a different hand and a different foot. There is now a rather concrete proposal. You had a lot of questions about that and you want a joint national plan. Do you think, in essence, that the route chosen by the cabinet and Europe in the agreements with Turkey is a good one, with some questions, of course? Is that part of your national plan? Or is it not part of the national plan? To be honest, there are still a few differences of opinion here. I'm so curious about what D66 thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u29	I have just said a number of things about this. We think it is a good idea to stop the flow of refugees coming from Turkey to Greece with dangerous boat trips. What my group thinks is the most dangerous part of the plan at the moment is the choice you make. There is a perverse danger of saying that only if there are many people crossing those boats will Turkey take those people back and then Europe will take people out of the camps in Turkey in return. That would mean that Turkey could say: let us let as many boats through as possible, because then Europe must also take as many refugees as possible from us. That's a question about the effect I really do have left. I think it's a fair question, too. Mr Zijlstra pretends to be complaining about a few details, but this is, of course, about important treaties and about the status of refugees. Treaties, the legal position of refugees, perverse incentives: that is what our questions are about. I have said that I think the idea of finding a solution in cooperation with Turkey is a very realistic and inevitable partner, geographically speaking. My group is not against that either. Other groups have been more critical of this than D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u30	In itself, I always appreciate when colleagues value the plans of others positively and try to sweep them together. However, I am also curious to see how D66 appreciates these proposals. How does D66 look at that himself? What's D66's point of view? D66 is not a neutral party but a political party with certain views. For example, I was referred to a proposal on legal routes for migration. You can say that there is broad agreement on this, even Mr Zijlstra of the VVD talks about it. However, the numbers you're talking about are quite different. I've been clear about that. Mr Zijlstra was clear about that, even at Pauw last night. Not that it should be the compromise, let's talk about it together, but my question is: how many people does Mr Verhoeven think about in resettlement? What does D66 think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u31	I think Mr Klaver mentioned the UNHCR. Mr Samsom has mentioned numbers a few times. I don't have a number from the VVD, because I didn't get a look yesterday. I didn't watch television. I thought it was important to prepare this debate in order, so I didn't see the fragment with Mr Zijlstra. However, I do know the note from the VVD which states that this can only be done in extreme cases. If I add another number now, I wake up or false expectations, or I make all kinds of weird promises. I think we should be generous with resettlement from Turkey and other countries to Europe. I also think that we should be generous in helping to receive shelter in the region of those countries. However, I am not going to mention a number, in the sense of'so much and so much', because I would therefore be concrete or constructive. No, we never mentioned that number because there are a lot of disadvantages and we are not doing that now. But Mr. Klaver is trying again, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u32	Yes, I do, because I want to know what D66 thinks. Mr Verhoeven says he wants to work together, but I think we all want to work together. However, there are great differences. If you want to be able to work together, you first need to know the position of parties. I know that the VVD has made all kinds of concrete proposals. Some of them disgust me, but at least I know what I disagree with and where we agree and where you can seek cooperation. The same applies to colleague Samsom. He has made rather concrete proposals. Then you can see where you agree and where you can work together. I am so keen to work with Mr Verhoeven, but I do not know what point because I do not know what he wants. Mr Verhoeven says that all these parties have ideas and we agree with them. Is that it? I'm genuinely looking. For us, resettlement of refugees is a crucial issue in the whole solution of all the problems we have with refugees. So I think it is right to ask what direction Mr Verhoeven is thinking. How many people would we have to resettle? On this point, I would ask for a very specific answer from Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u33	Mr Klaver says he is genuinely looking, but I think he just wants to hear a number and I have already told him that I am not going to name a number. Moreover, there are a lot of parties that, as far as I am concerned, have been so wise not to mention a number. Calling that number means that we don't allow things to happen if one joins. That's gonna bring in a really weird situation. He now praises the VVD for its concreteity. However, the VVD plan states that in extreme cases resettlement is possible at the time of no more boats. That is not a very concrete plan either. I think that is wise, because we need to talk generously about resettlement to Europe from the countries where most refugees are, but I do not want to mention a number. So many numbers have already been mentioned, namely those of the European Union, but also those of the various political group leaders, but not a single number. And then, with a new number, would I suddenly create a breakthrough in the debate? Mr Klaver, you know very well that we are thinking in the same direction. You said you could rely on that; you were sincere, so that we could talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u34	Politics is also daring to take a stand, even if that is not easy. I have indeed mentioned a number for resettlement which is in line with what the UNHCR calls the United Nations Refugee Organisation. I do that for a reason. The United Nations says that 10% of the people in the region are vulnerable and that we need to take them in. That's a direction. No one's attached to that exact number, but that's the direction I'm thinking. If D66 is really serious about working together, then it has to take a stand on its own. That would make D66 a lot more credible when it wants to look for national unity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u35	I am sorry that there seems to be some disappointment and anger in Mr Klaver because I am not doing what he wants. That is, of course, his right, but I have just said that I am genuinely positive about a number of proposals. Mr Klaver knows that we are thinking a long way in the same direction as regards resettlement. He has already heard from me that I really want to look at a way to find a solution that fits the situation with a number of parties. If Mr Klaver only says that I am afraid because I do not mention a number, then he also knows that he is playing a political game. He can do that, but that's not my intention today. So I'm not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u36	You may give a brief response, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u37	It is not a political party's job to review others' plans, but to come up with their own proposals. I haven't heard that one from D66 so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u38	That's bullshit, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u39	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u40	No, I'm just answering that. This is Mr Klaver's bullshit and if I let this go, it seems as if he is right. We shouldn't have that. We have made many substantive proposals, with directions and clear concrete aspects and points. The only thing I am not doing is now calling the number of refugees we have to take in from Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. That's the only thing I don't do. Many other parties have not done so, and that is very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u41	Will you finish now? Or are you ready yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u42	Yeah, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Verhoeven. I shall now give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u44	Madam President. It's March 15th, or mid-March. The Prime Minister had promised the Netherlands that by mid-March the number of asylum seekers from Turkey to Europe should be around zero. That didn't happen. Last Saturday alone 2,500 people went from Turkey to Greece. In the first two months of this year 137,000 people came from Turkey to Greece, ten times more than the first two months of last year. Also in the Netherlands the numbers do not go to zero. There were over 6,000, so twice as many, the first two months of this year. Prime Minister Rutte has once again broken his promise here. The conclusion can therefore only be that the only thing going towards zero is the credibility of this Prime Minister. The Netherlands is about to make a historic mistake. Our country's going on sale. Thanks to our Prime Minister, who has been beeped and blackmailed by the Turks. Never has a Dutch Prime Minister been so humiliated, so knee-deep in front of a country that is run by a despot, who closes newspapers, who replaces press offices and who wants to treat journalists as terrorists, as we could read today. That's what Erdogan does. He intimidates and threatens and doesn't keep any deal. Four months ago, he promised to stop illegal boat trips of migrants in exchange for EUR 3 billion and visa-free travel in the autumn, but he broke his word. He didn't do anything. He raised a big middle finger to Europe. The boats with asylum seekers just kept coming. How is it possible that Prime Minister Rutte is re-instinct and that the Turks are now offering even more money, even faster visa-free travel and even faster prospects for membership of the European Union? What is this ultimate weakness? What kind of stupidity is this? Why another 3 billion extra to Turkey? The counter then stands at 6 billion hard-earned taxpayers' money from Europe. Hundreds of millions of them come from the Netherlands. In our own country pensions are in danger of being cut again and we are losing care for the elderly, but the money is flowing to Turkey. What fool would want the Turks to travel even faster without a visa to Europe? I don't get it. As part of this deal, 80 million Turks have been facing visa-free travel to Europe since June. Visa-free Europe finally came true, so the Turkish newspaper Sabah, day after the deal, shouted in big chocolate letters. We know that we have 400,000 people of Turkish origin in the Netherlands alone, all of whom have relatives they would like to bring here, and I don't even blame them. So these people can also just stay and go into illegality. I'm not making that up. It was the Secretary of State for Justice himself who wrote in a letter to the House of Representatives in 2014 that analyses by Frontex, among others, show that more and more illegal foreigners come from visa-free countries. And in three months, hoppa, 80 million visa-free Turks. That doesn't stop madness. Negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union are also being speeded up. What the hell were you thinking? Instead of permanently closing the door to North Korea on the Bosphorus, they have almost blackmailed themselves into the European Union. What a shame. Of course, they call on the VVD that visa-free travel and membership of the European Union will not be such a speedy process. They don't want any of that, or they're gonna be for a long time. But who's gonna believe that? The VVD has lied to the Netherlands so many times. The truth is that soon the VVD leader's signature will be put under that historically bad agreement, that agreement that will make Europe 6 billion poorer and millions of Turks richer. It is also an illusion to think that there will be no more asylum seekers coming our way. Soon they will come back through Lampedusa or another route or I expect that to happen again.To be honest, the Turks will change their minds again. I predict to the Prime Minister that if Erdogan does not get his way, if Erdogan feels offended again by a critical human rights report or by introducing the visa waiver later than the end of June, he will simply open the locks wide again. Turkey is not a solution to the asylum problem. The Netherlands understands that. Almost three quarters of the Dutch reject the deal with Turkey. That is absolutely right. There is only one solution to the asylum crisis, and that is to assume our own responsibility, that we are not dependent on Turkey, but that we are closing our own national borders. No more asylum seekers: that is the PVV's national action plan. It is also the only way to make our country safe again and to stop the terrorists. Less than an hour's drive from the Dutch border are the Brussels districts of Molenbeek and Vorst. I referred to it earlier as the Gaza Strip of Belgium. There are still dozens of dangerous jihadists out there. This afternoon we saw in the news that the police there are being shot at by terrorists with kalashnikovs. Those people can just drive into the Netherlands as long as our borders are wide open. I'm rounding up. What are the facts? The fact is that our national borders remain wide open and so asylum seekers can continue to come. Even terrorists can enter the Netherlands. The fact is that Prime Minister Rutte signed the total capitulation to Turkey with this deal. The fact is that in the Tower from now on Mr Erdogan rules and not Mark Rutte. A historical error, a historical error agreement. Prime Minister, you're making a historic mistake. This agreement must never be reached. I say no deal with the Turks. Fortunately, there are a number of other European countries that are threatening to block the deal in the next week. Let's hope that happens. We have to close our own borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u45	Mr. Chairman. Weakness and cowardice: EU leaders are soaked in it. Under the Dutch Presidency, a Turkish dictator is capitulated. Prime Minister Rutte is a big chicken. History will be harsh about this sale. The European elites are taking everything and everyone and everything into their trap. A Turkish tyrant gets the keys to the gateway to Europe. It's nauseating to see. EUR 6 billion will be paid out. Over the back of migrants, Turkey is blackmailing itself into the EU. In a few months' time, the Turks will be able to travel visa-free, leading to a new uncontrollable wave of migration to Western Europe. What does the EU get in return? Nothing at all. The migrant exchange will change nothing net to the influx. Our own principles of democracy and human rights are cheaply thrown overboard. Not Turkey, but the EU is already the sick man of Europe. How did it all come to this? The answer to this question is: by Angela Merkel, the insane German Chancellor. It has set Europe on fire with its welcome policy, but it is still not able to distance itself from it. It's naive and irresponsible. Once again, the Turks will not comply with the commitments made; we all know that. Is the Prime Minister prepared to impose economic sanctions at European level? More than two thirds of the Dutch want the House of Representatives to reject this fucking agreement. Almost 75% believe that Prime Minister Rutte has made a bad deal and is a huge majority against Turkish accession to the EU. We therefore say to the Prime Minister: listen to the Dutch people; tell the Turks that they can go down and make it clear that we no longer accept this blackmail policy. The Dutch people deserve a prime minister who stands up for the national interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u46	Mr. Chairman. In the coming days, there will be a European summit on the agreements with Turkey, a country which continues to slip away every day in terms of human rights, freedom of the press and freedom of expression. The criticism of the agreements made is therefore not easy. Amnesty International calls the agreement a 'disturbingly short-sighted and inhumane approach' to the refugee crisis. There's not a word of Spanish in there. Experts say that the agreements are de facto tantamount to the termination of the UN Refugee Convention. But abolishing human rights in order to score in the short term will also put the Dutch population on a long-term footing. We can all face violations of human rights. That is precisely why we have these kind of treaties. Can the Prime Minister here today promise that the European Union will not interfere with the UN Refugee Treaty, whatever the outcome of the deal? Can he make it clear how the Cabinet of the Gasthuizen/Sjoerdsma motion (32317, no. 371), which calls for efforts to comply with the Refugee Convention both at home and abroad? Does the Prime Minister guarantee today that he will abide by that? From the UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Organisation, we hear that the current proposals are contrary to the EU's own rules. How does the Prime Minister feel about that? The vast majority of refugees are taken care of in their own region. There is no other way; everyone understands that. But in Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan, millions of Syrians are in very bad conditions. At a time when 60 million people are fleeing war, violence, hunger or oppression, it is not by saying that the region must solve everything alone, especially as long as the international community is not prepared to contribute more to reception in that region. If that is the starting point for most parties, why is there still too little to improve the situation in Syria's neighbouring countries? What about the Prime Minister's promises to invest in facilities in camps in Lebanon and Jordan? What about humane care, education for children and the elimination of all shortages? I would like a response from the Prime Minister. Can the cabinet indicate how the EU sees the 6 billion earmarked for reception in Turkey being spent? I would like to have as detailed an overview as possible in writing as to which organizations receive what. Is there indeed no money going to the Turkish government? I'd like a clear answer from the Prime Minister. How is it that thousands of people are still stuck in the mud at the Macedonian border? The first deaths have already fallen there. What is the Prime Minister going to do, especially in his role as President of the European Union, to put an end to this disgrace? The chances that this deal will lead to new escape routes are enormous. We spend EUR 6 billion on border surveillance in the Aegean. What is the prime minister's view that new routes to Europe are likely to emerge quickly? What arrangements have been made about it? We can talk to each other every week about how we can cope with the influx of refugees. Let us, above all, do so, because every man deserves a safe return when his own country is on fire. At least it's so important to make sure people don't have to run anymore. We must therefore make every effort to make the political process in Syria a success. How does the Prime Minister see his role in this? Only once stability has been restored in large parts of Syria will the flow of refugees decline, can it be rebuilt and can it be fought together IS. The Dutch Government may contribute to this. First of all, by not throwing any more oil on the fire. So stop the Dutch interference in this war, put everything on an arms embargo for the region and cut IS off funding and resources. This looks like an appointment with the knife on the throat. Something else we can't call the deal with Turkey. Europe is transferring 6 billion and the EU accession negotiations are being reopened, while there is no clarity as to how and when Turkey will properly accept refugees and respect human rights. Is Turkey talking itself over the back of refugees into the EU? Or is this a political hostage situation? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u47	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, millions of Syrians, Iraqis and others have been expelled from their homes, fleeing war and violence. It's an unprecedented humanitarian tragedy. There is chaos at the edges of Europe. The flow of refugees is the visible result of it. At the moment, cautious steps are being taken on the war stage: a hesitant cease-fire, a beginning of the withdrawal of Russian troops and attempts at peace talks. Meanwhile, Europe has a moral responsibility to stand by people in need. At the same time, we see that our possibilities are not unlimited. The unprecedented flow of refugees is putting pressure on our continent. We must recognise that last year Europe's strength was stretched to the limit. In Germany alone, more than a million people are currently waiting for an answer to their asylum application. An agreement with Turkey was concluded by the European Union in November. The Prime Minister explained this in Parliament and the CDA was critical of it at the time. The Prime Minister defended that deal as a breakthrough. Turkey would stop refugees to Greece in exchange for EUR 3 billion, view of visa freedom in the autumn and reopen the negotiations on membership. On the basis of that agreement, Prime Minister Rutte promised in January that from eight weeks after that, about today, the flow from Turkey to Europe would return to zero. Those eight weeks are up, and I'm asking the Prime Minister what happened. Has his announcement to the Dutch people, made on Dutch television, been made that within six to eight weeks, on the basis of those agreements in November, the flow of refugees would go back to zero? If not, how does he look back on that interview he gave in January? Actually, it's asking for the familiar road, because the influx isn't back to zero. Turkey has continued to wave the boats. Large numbers of refugees continued to come to Greece to eventually travel through the Western Balkans to Austria, Germany and the Netherlands. As a result, a number of Western Balkan countries have themselves closed the border with Greece. Austria was going to apply a quota system, not beautiful perhaps, but born of necessity. It is those actions of those countries, and not those of the EU, Mark Rutte or of Turkey, that have changed the playing field, because their actions have reduced the influx to these parts of Europe. Last week, before the summit with Turkey on 7 March, the Turkish Government once again surprised Europe by a flight forward. Prime Minister Rutte was also mugged. Turkey was suddenly prepared to stop the flow and to take back refugees, but it was refugees who had previously allowed themselves to go against the agreements since November. The smart Turkey asked for that in return, what it should have done three months earlier, an additional EUR 3 billion, visa freedom not in autumn 2016 but already in June 2016, and even faster talk about joining the EU. To emphasize who is in charge in this region, the Turkish government silenced the opposition newspaper Zaman and then declared here in the Netherlands for the cameras that Turkey was really ready for accession. Just this week, President Erdogan went so far as to question the Constitutional Court in his country, because, in his view, it wrongly released two arrested journalists. Europe would enter into accession negotiations with that country. By agreeing to this, Prime Minister Rutte has sold out the Netherlands and our Dutch democratic values. Europe is a community of values that we must defend in difficult times: against terror, against war on our borders, against Russia, but also against Erdogan's policy of power. Of course we need to do business and of course we need to talk to Turkey, but that is completely different from membership and turning us over to the whims of the President...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u48	I suggest you finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u49	That is right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u50	You're almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u51	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u52	I'll keep an eye on it; I can see right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u53	Much better than going to Ankara on its knees, the EU can go to Athens with its head held high. For years Athens has refused to allow foreign border surveillance, has not built hotspots as agreed and has left much of the money received on the bow. Yet we cannot leave Greece to its fate; see the tragedies at the Macedonian border. It would therefore be much better if the EUR 3 billion which is now suddenly being provided to Turkey would go to Greece, but also to countries such as Jordan and Lebanon. These countries have millions of refugees in wretched conditions, but they do not have the position to beg Europe to join the EU. We know that these refugees will also come to Europe, perhaps not through Turkey, but through Malta or directly through Italy. For these reasons, the CDA considers the deal made by Prime Minister Rutte with Turkey to be irresponsible. It is not Europe's long-term path. Earlier, the VVD proposed not the root, but the stick towards Turkey: sanctions. That is a very different language from the Prime Minister's appeasement policy. There is much to say for that line of sanctions. Turkey made an agreement in November and simply failed to do so. A self-conscious Europe that upholds its values does not let that pass. Therefore, the CDA asks whether the Prime Minister is prepared to include in the agreement and in the negotiations with Turkey that are taking place that sanctions will follow if Turkey does not finally deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u54	I hear strong criticism from Mr Buma. I think he's gonna give it to me. However, Mr Buma does have huge mountains of butter on his head. I've filed three motions in the last few weeks. In the first motion, I call on the government to stop the accession negotiations with Turkey. With the second one, I want to prevent the Turks from travelling visa-free. In the third, I call on the government not to give in to Turkey's blackmail policy. None of these three motions was supported by Mr Buma's group. In the European Parliament, Mr Buma's group sits in the lap of Mrs Merkel's group. Can Mr Buma reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u55	That is so difficult that I am not in any doubt about the motions tabled by Mr Bontes. I know that I am here as CDA group chairman, talking about the deal that the Prime Minister is making with Turkey. I know I'm as critical of that deal as I'm talking about it right now. So I do not know what motions Mr Bontes has tabled, but I do know that we are having a debate here. From what I say here, I don't take a word back. Moreover, I am proud to be in one group in the European Parliament together with the German CDU.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u56	It is good that Mr Buma does not take a word back from what he is saying now, because we shall have a look at that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u57	I am now hearing Mr Bontes' threatening language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u58	This characterises the CDA and Mr Buma. He barks, but doesn't bite. But I know it well: I am about to table a motion asking the Prime Minister to use his veto at the forthcoming European Council meeting. Can I have Mr Buma's support for that motion on the veto?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u59	I have no idea. I don't know what's in that motion yet. Maybe my group itself will table a motion. Maybe we'll support the motion. We have a tendency at the CDA to hold a group meeting on support or no support for motions and to decide on this at such a meeting. I would like to say this to Mr Bontes. The game today is not about motions, but about joint responsibility for the values Europe stands for. Some, such as the Prime Minister, are talking about making a deal which includes Turkey's accession to Europe. The CDA is against that. The CDA thinks this should be done in a different way. It is our job to show that the values we stand for are kept high. Whether that goes through a motion from Mr Bontes or a motion from someone else, that does not matter. Perhaps Mr Bontes should say: I do not submit my motion, but I support another's motion. We'll all see. The core, however, is, as far as I am concerned, that joint responsibility for these values.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u60	I hear a lot of words from Mr Buma again. However, it is only one thing today, namely that the Chamber should not allow the Prime Minister to sign that deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u61	Mr Bontes may assume that the CDA will argue in favour of this. I am in favour of that now, and perhaps in a motion later. So that's not a problem at all. However, Mr Bontes is a little too concerned about it all. He says, "I did something, and it doesn't get any support." It's about the common interest. I'm almost Pechtold when I say: I don't care who the proposal comes from, we'll see if we support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u62	No, no, you're not Alexander Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u63	Almost, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u64	Not even that, Mr. Buma. However, I have a question for Mr Buma. I think he is right to be very critical of many parts of the deal with Turkey that is now before us. He rightly says about visa liberalisation: this should not be accelerated. He is right to say that it is not possible for all of us to do so. In this morning's newspaper, he even says that you should actually work around Turkey. So you have to work with Jordan and Lebanon. That's what D66 thinks, and that's where we can find each other. So we are talking about this cooperation that I have just mentioned. But let me come back to the role of Turkey. It now almost seems that the CDA Group is ready to stop working with Turkey and to work around Turkey. Is that the CDA's new line now? That would no longer be very realistic, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u65	I just said that Turkey now has the prospect of membership. That is the wording used for this. Furthermore, Turkey is granted visa freedom. Those things get the country in exchange for something it should have done before. I'm gonna put a line through that and I don't have to. Of course you must speak to Turkey, but you must do so as a proud Europe. Turkey must also be aware of its own interest. So it has to be mutual. At the moment, however, Turkey is asking, after which Europe is turning. Turkey asks, we turn. We must realise that this is not possible now, in the short term. We also see that the need in the camps of Jordan and Lebanon is actually much higher. We have to be honest about that, too. We do have money at our disposal, EUR 3 billion. Surely we shouldn't be closing the accession deal with Turkey now? Then we can say much better to Greece instead: we understand that you have a problem after the border with Macedonia has been closed and we will support you. We must also say to Jordan and Lebanon: we understand that you have a problem and we support you. That's what I'm advocating. Why does everyone keep quiet about that? Why doesn't the government say anything about that? I don't think this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u66	I fully agree with Mr Buma that this cannot be done. That is why we said ourselves in 2013 that we must work together with Jordan and Lebanon, because not only does Turkey catch a lot of refugees. However, Mr Buma has been very firm in recent days. He talked about sanctions and working around Turkey. It seemed as if he did not want anything to do with Turkey anymore in solving this problem. However, we are dealing with the situation that Turkey is next to Syria and most of the Syrian refugees first go to Turkey. So the question is what Mr Buma wants to discuss with Turkey. Can we be talking about cooperation to control the flow of refugees? Or is it going to be the story that we have to impose sanctions on Turkey and that cooperation is not possible? To what extent is Turkey still a partner for Mr Buma to cooperate with? Now it looks like the counter's at zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u67	In my opinion, Mr Verhoeven asks the same question several times and therefore receives the same answer several times. We should not make a deal with Turkey if Turkey stops refugees. We should not start negotiations on accession and visa freedom at a time when democracy in Turkey is under more pressure than ever before and there is a civil war in progress. No, I didn't. Of course you have to talk to Turkey, but from the position that Europe is also making its demands. At present, the demands towards Turkey are weak, while Turkey's demands are strong. That is why we must show Turkey that we are also able to make agreements with countries that do not call for membership. I call Jordan and Lebanon, from which refugees also come. One thing I can assure Mr Verhoeven: if the Turkish problem were resolved, it would go directly through other countries, from those other camps. The next problem is approaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u68	I wonder if the CDA is really showing its teeth when it comes to accession and visa liberalisation. I have one more question for Mr Buma. How much money does he intend to make available for cooperation with Jordan and Lebanon? That is, of course, a substantial amount of money. I believe that there are more than 1.5 million refugees in these two countries. That is why we need strong structural support, otherwise we will say: we are going to do it with those countries, but we are not going to link it with a clear amount or a clear amount of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u69	I think that is the crux of the problem when it comes to Europe. Everything is focused on Turkey. We had a deal with that, but Turkey has not complied with it. There's no focus on Jordan and Lebanon. We are talking about huge amounts, but we are making EUR 3 billion available to Turkey with a fingernip, because Turkey calls and we deliver. We could not do that either, and instead we could say: first of all, come up with projects for which we can use the money, because the money has not yet been disposed of at all. We will not be spending this money on Turkey, or perhaps we will be able to do so with less money, but in part to solve the terrible misery on the Macedonian border, on the islands of Greece and, as I have just said, in Lebanon and Jordan. Then you have a big amount, way above everything we've been talking about so far. Then it goes to countries with which we are not in a difficult relationship with EU membership, but for which we may have a greater responsibility than for Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u70	I have a clarifying question. The argument is clear. We share that. We also believe that the 3 billion extra should go to other countries. I would also like to mention Iraq, which also captures part of the refugees, not only internal refugees, but also those from Syria. The question to Mr Buma is: shelter OK, also for Greece, but does Mr Buma also think that the people sitting there now, on the Macedonian-Greek border, should be reallocated to Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u71	In itself, you come back to what was originally the thought. The deal with Turkey: divide people in Greece across Europe. The CDA still thinks so. I see the horde there, too. It is not from the Netherlands, it is from countries like Hungary and Poland, because if we redistribute it and again, that is an agreement that has been made and which has also been supported by the CDA, then Europe must do so. It cannot be the case that the countries that are already doing the most are delivering on their own. Thus, redistributing alone is complicated enough, regardless of the negotiations with Turkey. But yes, that would be very real.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u72	Well, that makes sense. Then I have another question about the Turkey deal; I find it interesting to know what the CDA thinks about it. In the Turkey deal there is also talk of returning refugees from Greece to Turkey, even pushing back boats. Given that Turkey is still not a safe third country, does the CDA think that this is justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u73	That's a fair question. Is Turkey a safe country or not? I'm thinking of that in a nuanced way. Turkey is not safe for everyone according to the rules. A Kurdish refugee from Eastern Turkey may become a refugee. I would add something else: a Syrian fleeing from Syria and being caught in Turkey is safe. A number of colleagues have seen the camps themselves; they are not spacious, but safe. They are being taught; Turkey is doing a great deal about that. That's certainly not up to the standards of this place, and not everyone gets a house and a job right away, because they're often not there. But I think it is a step too far to say in general terms in this new world with such masses of refugees: we cannot make an appointment with Turkey to stop the boats that bring the refugees back. I would like to say quite frankly that Europe would be faced with incredibly serious problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u74	I'm trying to get it straight. I asked a simple question. Does the CDA currently consider Turkey to be a safe third country? Mr Buma works with different categories; the Syrians might be able to go back, the Kurds might not. However, the European Union does not yet consider Turkey a safe third country. Does the CDA say at this point that it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u75	I think it's a safe enough country to send people back. We may both stress that it would be strange to talk about joining the values community Europe and visa liberalisation, while we now accept from that same country that it is not safe enough to include Syrian refugees. As a Western community, we are going irrevocably against the legal limits. I have already said that the ECHR will be extremely difficult to implement as millions of people are now fleeing. You're gonna have to deal with them more soberly than the treaties do. Yeah, that's what Turkey should do. Yes, I acknowledge that Turkey is also doing a great deal about this. However, I would like to draw a line if the current negotiations were to speed up the accession negotiations and speed up visa liberalisation, while Turkey had failed to fulfil its commitments in November. So the CDA says no to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u76	More often, countries, even within the EU, are not considered safe third countries. For example, the European Court of Human Rights has said that we should not actually send people back to Greece. My question builds on the debate on Turkey as a safe third country. The Syrians are a separate category; I do not want to talk about this now. But what about the Afghans? You can say these people are being taken care of there, because there are shelter camps. However, to assess whether a country is a safe third country, we need to look at the criteria: can people work, can children go to school, and do they not run the risk of being returned to an unsafe situation? We know that the Turkish government has made agreements with the Afghan government on the return of refugees. Is Turkey a safe third country for Afghan refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u77	I'd say that. In fact, one of the major tasks is to ensure that refugees can return to Afghanistan themselves. What we see happening in Afghanistan is that a lot of people almost come to Western Europe when they move to Pakistan. We simply need to be very honest with each other and recognise that Europe is not going to be able to do so. Afghanistan has areas that are unsafe, but also areas that are safe. So you have to tell us which areas in Afghanistan are safe; there may be a domestic resettlement alternative. All this is not nice, and that does not have the level of care here, but the question is what basic safety you offer. It's gotta be in Afghanistan. That cannot be in Turkey, Greece or the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u78	That is all true; so is the Netherlands. The Netherlands is also asking the following questions. What area are we talking about? What kind of fugitive are we talking about here? For example, a homosexual from Afghanistan can get asylum in Europe if he is allowed to apply for it in Greece, but if we send him back to Turkey there is a chance that he will be returned from there to Afghanistan. According to the Refugee Convention, Turkey is not a safe third country. The question is, how do you deal with that? Mr Buma talks about the community of values in Europe. Is it not one of the key values that we said 60 years ago: people have the individual right to asylum? We need to keep that up. We need to make sure that someone gets an individual assessment. Turkey is not in a position to make that assessment at all at the moment. In the Netherlands, the IND is facing problems. It's non-existent in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u79	On that point, the CDA is absolutely following the government. Whatever deal comes out, an individual person who has personal fear of persecution on individual grounds should be taken care of when it comes here. If that person, so to speak, is not safe in Turkey and Afghanistan for that reason, we will catch him here. However, we are talking about large flows from Afghanistan to Europe and we cannot accommodate those war refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u80	I understand that, but what are we going to test to see if this gentleman should be sent back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u81	That sounds really crazy, but that's not such a hard test. The familiar key we have is the individual key that it should actually be. Our entire Refugee Convention, our international refugee legislation, is intended for individuals who have a personal fear of persecution. We now see very large groups of people moving from war zones to Europe. I get that. I can see that, but we can't keep up. However, it will always be possible for a person who has to fear persecution on personal grounds to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u82	Mr. Chairman. This Thursday and Friday will have to be made clear whether we are able to reach an agreement with Turkey on bringing the enormous flow of refugees through that country to Europe and to the Netherlands. That agreement seemed unachievable for a long time, but also because of the efforts of the Netherlands a breakthrough seems possible. It is certainly not a race in progress, but the agreement in principle can actually ensure that illegal migration through Turkey to Europe is brought under control and may stop. At the heart of the plan is that Turkey will take back all immigrants who cross illegally from Turkey to Greece, Syrians and non-Syrians. Non-Syrians account for about half of the migratory flows. They can apply for asylum in Turkey or return to the country of origin. Every Syrian who ventures the illegal crossing is not only sent back, but also in fact loses the chance of legal migration to Europe. This means that we are putting an end to the inhumane practices of smugglers, because why would you risk the crossing? You have to pay a few thousand euros to a smuggler, you run the risk of drowning yourself or drowning your family, and if you make it across the street, the result is that your chances of a future in Europe have been reduced to zero. To set this mechanism in motion, we invite one Syrian from a shelter camp to come legally to Europe for every Syrian who has been illegally crossed. If the illegal flow of migrants subsequently dries, we are prepared to talk to the Turks about the resettlement of Syrians in Turkish camps. Since it no longer pays to choose the precious and dangerous illegal route, I expect the power to dry up quickly. However, we should not trust the Turks in their brown eyes either. That is why it is sensible that the agreement in principle also states that after a number of weeks we will see whether the agreement actually works. Turkey also wants something in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u83	Mr Zijlstra said last week: if there is no delivery, I am thinking of sanctions. Mr Buma has just repeated that. A day later, Mr Zijlstra said, if I understand correctly, that he expects the current to go to zero within a few weeks. There was 24 hours in between. Mr Zijlstra is now saying that we should not believe the Turks in their brown eyes. What exactly is Mr Zijlstra's assessment of this deal? Is he on the line of distrust, sanctions and 'do not' or is he on the line of 'this is the breakthrough', 'this is fantastic' or, as Mr Azmani said, 'this is going to be the solution and that will resolve it within a few weeks'? Because there's a lot of space in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u84	To be honest, there is no such room, because those statements overlapped completely. My first statement was that the route we want is an agreement with Turkey. If we cannot reach an agreement with Turkey or if there is an agreement that the Turks do not implement, then, as I have said for some time now, we must also dare to use the stick instead of the root. This can be done in the form of sanctions. We're still on route one. I think it is very good that there is now an agreement in principle that might work. Well, that's gonna have to prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u85	Okay, now it's the trail of trust, the positive, optimistic trail of "it might work." If it doesn't work, then bam! It is a matter of equal sanctions. That's kind of the line of the VVD; then I get that. I have one question about the resettlement. Mr Zijlstra explains the deal as: even if the flow dries, Europe is prepared to continue to work on resettlement. I believe that this is also part of the VVD plans, but it also says that this can only be done in extreme cases. How generous is the resettlement? What exactly does the VVD want with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u86	As I have just said and as the Prime Minister said in the past, when the flow goes to zero, we are going to talk about resettlement, and we are going to give the answers to the question of how many will come and how they will be divided over Europe. That is what we are going to do, but the willingness of the VVD is to say clearly, as we did a year ago, that we also have a responsibility towards Turkey. In that country, 2.7 million people are in a camp. We can't just say: the place is closed; you'll be fine with it. No, we have a responsibility of our own. How exactly we fill it out, we'll discuss it with the Turks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u87	That is good, because the VVD has always said in recent months that everyone is moving towards shelter in the region. The VVD has been aware of this movement lately, but I now see that the VVD is also moving and says that resettlement in Europe is something it really wants to talk about, also generously. That is a fine move towards cooperation which I spoke about in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u88	That was already in the plan that Mr Schouw tore up last year, so I do not know which movement Mr Verhoeven sees, because we are quite consistent in this. It was already in there, and we still do. I am still pleased that Mr Verhoeven is also making and finding the crossing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u89	I would like to take a look back with Mr Zijlstra last week and at the Turkey deal. Last week we saw him all on television mentioning the example of the souk, the Arab market. He said: you should not give away your negotiations in advance, but first see results and then look further. We've seen the deal now. Instead of the 3 billion with results, the Prime Minister put another 3 billion on top. The Labour Party was taken the measure with the air bridge. We have seen an acceleration of visa liberalisation. It was supposed to come first in October, but now we see it coming in June. In addition, Turkey has accelerated its accession. Has this negotiating strategy been so successful, looking back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u90	At the end of last year, Mr Buma referred to this, and there was an agreement with Turkey in which Turkey did not take back Syrians and other legal migrants, as they were called. Turkey only wanted to take back the people from countries like Morocco and Algeria. Now Turkey is ready to take everyone back, including the Syrians and other refugees. That's quite a step. I'll be back in a minute to talk about what the Turks want back for that. I will explain the point by point, but I think what is now before me is, frankly, a fair deal. Sometimes ghost stories are told here as if we were selling out to Sodom and Gomorrah, but frankly I think that Europe has made a good effort to achieve a good result and bring the flow of refugees under control. That remains to be seen, and that is why I say that we should not be naive if the Turks do not want to deliver. We're pretty consistent about that, too. There is now a framework that brings us closer to a solution than we have ever been. I really think that's a breakthrough. It is good that the Netherlands has made such a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u91	You think it's a good deal. We promised $3 billion first. I would have expected to see the results of a humane reception of asylum seekers and refugees in Turkey first. I haven't seen any results of that. Then, on behalf of Europe, the Prime Minister gives a further 3 billion. What's the profit now? You say they're really promising to do it now, and they're really promising to take the refugees back. But then you'll believe them on their brown eyes again, won't you? You give another 3 billion on a promise they have not kept so far, namely the promise of humane reception of refugees. What else has to be done? How naive can you be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u92	Apparently, Mr Voordewind believes that the 3 billion has already been transferred. He's not here yet. We're not naive. We're transferring money, whether it's 3 billion or 6 billion, at the time of delivery. The agreements that are now under way really go a lot further than last autumn's agreements. Turkey has also seen that it does not appear to be sufficiently capable of dampening the power only on its own side. We have seen that Turkey has tried, but we also see that it is not enough. Turkey can see that too. As a step, Turkey has therefore offered to take back all people crossing the border. That's quite a step! If we manage to do that, I almost get the impression that some parties would not want to do it. Then we are only going to get a real solution. He's at the door right now. It can, I say in all honesty, still go terribly wrong, perhaps even more in Europe than in Turkey. For example, we all know the background to the relationship between Cyprus and Turkey. However, we would make a historic mistake, to paraphrase Mr Wilders, if we were to let go of this opportunity. It's a good chance. I'll explain in a moment why I think what's on the other side is quite explainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u93	This is a very big turn of the VVD, now compared to the texts before the deal of March 7th. Then we fell back on what was agreed in November. I do not know if Mr Zijlstra remembers it, but the agreement with Turkey was already: back to zero. On that basis, the Prime Minister said: it goes back to zero within six or eight weeks. Mr Azmani, my fellow Member, and not Mr Zijlstra's colleague, Mr Zijlstra, said the following. I took it on purpose. He said: "I find it very undesirable to make a gesture to Turkey now"...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr Zijlstra now says very glorifyingly: well, it was so difficult. It was just a hard deal. Then it's not so hard to say: all those boats that went over, I'll get them back. Those are the boats they had sent themselves. And because Turkey had not delivered, the VVD Group said: an extra root does not help, that is completely naive; the stick is there! Is Mr Zijlstra at least prepared to give the Prime Minister that if the deal with Europe is not fulfilled, the stick must be used?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u94	I'm just gonna peel this off. Turkey must comply with what was agreed in the autumn. Turkey has come forward with the message: we cannot do it, we are not getting enough control on our side, we too want to get rid of this problem, and that is why we are offering Europe to take everyone back. Turkey also recognizes that this is the only route that has a chance of success, as was described in detail in the October cabinet plans. That's ahead of us now. So this is acting on what was agreed then, because we see that it does not work properly. Turkey had to take this step, because it did not deliver at that time. Either Turkey would walk this route, or it would become a beach. The latter seemed to arise. I do believe that if a country delivers on one not, you should not only use the root but also the stick at some point. That goes for here, too. I believe that Turkey has really taken an essential step by being prepared to take back all those people. The country still has to do that. That remains to be seen, but I assume they will have the will to do so if they offer it. I find it unwise to say: we are going to include that stick in the agreement immediately. Let it be clear: if Turkey does not deliver, it will not get the 6 billion and it will not get all the other things. Then we can also use that stick against Turkey. Mr Buma knows a great deal about negotiating technique, so he knows that what he is asking for is not realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u95	I feel a little bit coming here, what happened to Mr Samsom earlier. He calls outside this Chamber that in that case there should be an air bridge, to say within this Chamber: we do not say it here. As if Turkey should be outside the Chamber and not in here. That's ridiculous, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u96	I'm saying it here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u97	But then you have to establish it, because if we really want to have a stick, we must also agree at European level that we are doing it. Then it does not have to be in the deal with Turkey, but let us call on the Prime Minister to ensure that it comes into the conclusions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u98	I think that Turkey should be clear that Europe wants to use this weapon if Turkey does not deliver. We're the world's largest trading power. Turkey has an interest in this too. So that's what we share. Whether it is wise in the negotiating tactics to do it this way, I doubt, but that the instrument for the VVD is a real instrument that we can apply, should this not come off the ground, you have my word immediately. That we may differ on what is a sensible negotiating tactic, that is to say. It happens all the time in this house. I don't know what you're suggesting. I do not think it is unwise for Europe simply to use this instrument when it presents itself. We agree on that immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u99	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u100	I note, then, that the point made earlier by Mr Azmani and Mr Zijlstra about the stick is intended as a reminder in the Netherlands, that Europe should not make itself out loud, because then suddenly it is a silly negotiating strategy. That's a nice joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u101	The VVD, whether it be Mr Azmani or me or another member of our group, believes that both the root and the stick should be able to be used. If the carrot doesn't work anymore, you have to have the courage to use the stick. We're still working on the carrot. It is also always quite ineffective to start recording that immediately at that time. I hope that Mr Buma knows this from negotiations. But we have the willingness to do so. That's what I'm saying here. I don't think there's a word in French, Russian or Turkish. We have that willingness, but now we are in the other precarious process. That is extremely precarious, but there is also a solution in that direction. We've never gotten this close. As far as I'm concerned, we're trying to seize that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u102	Mr Zijlstra talked about naivety, but the VVD is now throwing over all human rights treaties to send refugees back to a country that is no longer so close to human rights, freedom of the press and freedom of expression. In Eastern Turkey, the Kurds are immensely under the skin of a regime that no longer looks at anything. To such a country, the VVD collectively wants to send everything back, without rights. Why does Mr Zijlstra not demand from the Prime Minister that human rights finally improve visibly in Turkey, that the problems in Eastern Turkey be resolved seriously on the basis of human rights and that we do not send people back collectively if that is not settled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u103	I'm not a friend of the Turkish regime. If you would accuse me of that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u104	It's starting to look like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u105	...that would be a little crazy. But I honestly don't understand this question. These people are being sent back to Turkey. And where did they come from? From Turkey. So these people are in Turkey. Some have been there for years in shelter camps, in safety, and decide to cross over to Greece. They're going back to the country they left from. Then you can keep a whole story about human rights, but we also need to look at where they came from in safety. As national politicians, we have a responsibility to see what this stream of refugees means for the Netherlands, for the welfare state in the Netherlands, for care, for benefits, for education and so on. We can't handle all that. We must also take that responsibility. I'll take that. If Mr Roemer does not want to move around these principles, while the practice is that they simply come from the same country, I find that inexplicable towards the Dutch electorate and the Dutch citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u106	How naive can you be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u107	Turns out, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u108	How naive can you be? You say, "Where did they come from?" People are on the run. They're fleeing camps where NGOs don't even come in to see what human rights are like. They fled Kurdish territory because they are bombed there by the Turkish government, and if they go the other way by rebel group or by IS; doesn't matter. Those people are on the run, looking for security. They take their children and all their have and keep with them. They don't do that for fun. They arrive in Greece, they arrive in Europe and what do they hear from the VVD? Go back to that country that doesn't take it very closely with human rights, which simply bombs along if it's convenient, that doesn't honour agreements, that doesn't allow NGOs in refugee camps and that sometimes even closes the border between Syria and Turkey just for refugees. How naive can you be when you say: no, this is a good deal, keep it up, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u109	How naive can you be if you think that the welfare state in the Netherlands can survive if you do not do something about this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u110	This is in no way an answer to the question. That says enough. The welfare state, Mr Zijlstra....................................................................................................................................................................................................... Don't blame the refugees for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u111	We have had to intervene to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands can enjoy good education and good care in the future. If we want to maintain the welfare state at that level, then we have to take responsibility. This is not necessary in the Netherlands, it is also possible in the region. That is at the heart of our plans, and that is in line with all the refugee treaties. If you don't want to do that and as the SP conducts the policy that everyone has to be brought here, that is a fairly new course of this party, by the way, you're not going to keep up the care street in the Netherlands and then we're going to have to make much more savings. But I'm sure the SP won't want that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u112	It is starting to get a little sad: Mr Zijlstra is afraid to answer the questions, he is running away from human rights, he is knocking down all the proposals made by any group and he is putting everything aside just for political gain in his own country. That may be so, but do not bring in everything that has not been said or meant, just to get your own gain out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u113	This is a very big caricature. The proposals are not contrary to refugee treaties. We want shelter in the region, and that fits precisely within the refugee treaties. However, there is a rather fundamental difference of opinion with the SP. The SP says about the problems of the world: the people affected must all have the right to come here. That is what the VVD is saying: we cannot do that, our welfare state cannot do that because if we do, we will also have to draw the consequences. It is a bit cheap to blame the VVD while the SP is not prepared to draw the consequences from its own message. The consequence is that the SP must therefore dare to adjust the level of provision. Then don't walk away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u114	The cabinet sent a rather nuanced letter last Friday about this deal. It states, among other things, that we must maintain European legislation and the Refugee Convention and that this is very important. In this context, it is also good that Turkey has made commitments on the treatment of Syrian refugees. Turkey has not done so with other groups of refugees in that country. However, Mr Zijlstra just said that we must send them all back to Turkey and he said that this is in accordance with the Refugee Convention and in accordance with European legislation. What's he basing that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u115	Those groups can also apply for asylum in Turkey itself. Turkey is a safe country for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u116	In order to determine whether Turkey is a safe third country, it is an important question whether people can receive education there, whether they can work there, whether they can claim asylum status and whether they do not have to fear being expelled to an unsafe country, where they come from. Those guarantees have more or less been given to Turkey for Syrian refugees, and I am not satisfied with them myself, but I am not satisfied with them, but not with the other groups mentioned by Mr Zijlstra. This does not comply with the Refugee Convention and does not respect the agreements we have made in Europe. Why does Mr Zijlstra keep saying that there are agreements? What makes him think it's possible? I just don't see that. Surely agreements will have to be made with Turkey first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u117	I believe that paragraph 15 of the agreement in principle states that all this is in conformity with the European treaties and rules. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he is quite sure, but I have the impression that they usually triple-check this in Europe. These groups may apply for asylum in the country which is safe for them. For the Syrians we have indeed made a different arrangement, also to ensure that the engine is running, as Mr Samsom once said so beautifully. We need to get that process going. That is why I agree with the principle chosen. If you cross illegally, you go back and you lose your chance for a future in Europe. Then everyone'll leave it out of their heads to do that. Why would you take that risk and spend that money? Then we can really talk about resettlement. Then we can make sure we do this in a proper way. That's what this is all about. If you don't stop the power, they'll keep coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u118	Let me put it another way. Does Mr Zijlstra agree with me that we cannot send Iraqis, Afghans or Eritreans back from Greece to Turkey if it turns out that Turkey is not a safe country for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u119	There's an assumption ahead of that. If Turkey is not a safe country for these people, how can they even leave Turkey for Greece? So they fled to a country that is not safe for them. I'm having some conceptual difficulty understanding that. If it's really not safe, I wouldn't have walked into that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u120	I don't want to get caught up in legal hair-clubbing. The Refugee Convention stands for important principles which, in my opinion, make our Western European society much better than many others. We offer protection to people who flee war and violence. When it comes to the principle of a safe third country, it is not only a question of whether they are safe or have a roof over their heads in that country. One of the important other aspects is whether people are not at risk of being evicted to a country where they are at risk. There is no way of overcoming that in Turkey. That is why I would say that it is not a safe third country. That way we can't send people back. This is contrary to the UN Refugee Convention and European legislation. And, more importantly, it should contradict one of the most important values that make our society so great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u121	We disagree on this, but not on the fact that we have an obligation under treaties to protect people. We differ on the view that it is not all necessary here. We do not need to facilitate the ending of people in Europe when they travel through many safe countries. It can be done there. Again, that's a little crazy, when you leave Turkey and are put back, when you yourself once walked into that country, and that wasn't because you didn't have a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u123	The Syrians do. They couldn't go anywhere. Turkey also wants something back, as I said earlier. It wants not only 3 billion for the reception of refugees in Turkey for the years 2016 and 2017, but also for the year 2018 it wants a contribution from Europe of another 3 billion. To be honest, the VVD considers that to be a reasonable requirement. We want shelter in the region and then we must also be prepared to contribute financially to the same reception in the region. In this case, this is therefore a financial contribution to Turkey. The chances are quite high, I say cynically, but it is true that in 2018 a large number of refugees will still be present in Turkey. Can the Prime Minister confirm once again that this money does not go to the Turkish authorities, but to aid organisations that actually regulate the reception? That's what the VVD cares about. In addition, Turkey wants the date on which the visa requirement could expire to be brought forward. The path towards visa exemption started on 7 October 2011. Then Minister Gerd Leers informed the Chamber about this. To my knowledge, at that time, there was no party in this house that objected to that. Turkey now wants the date of the possible visa waiver to be brought forward from 1 October to 1 July. That is not in itself a world-shattering slider, and certainly not when you see that the conditions for possible visa waivers are still fully in force. If I am well informed, Turkey currently meets only 19 of the 72 conditions. The probability that it will then meet 72 conditions on 1 July, I consider to be virtually zero. Honestly, I consider the probability that it will meet those conditions on the original date of 1 October, also about zero. Is this a correct representation? Is it true that a process that has been going on for years is focusing on this and that the chance that we could actually proceed to visa liberalisation for Turkey on the date originally agreed is more theoretical than practical?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u124	This is an essential question put by Mr Zijlstra to the Prime Minister. He pretends it's a rhetorical question; it can't be that it's gonna work. I think that everyone in this house thinks it is very difficult for Turkey to meet so many criteria that it does not yet meet in such a short time. What would the VVD think that would mean for the deal? That must have consequences, otherwise it wouldn't be part of the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u125	In a deal or an agreement, I always look at what it says, because that's what you agreed to. It says that Turkey wants to advance the date on which visa liberalisation is possible. It goes from October 1st to July 1st. It is also clear that the conditions are not affected. Well, fine deal. So we don't need to relax. I certainly wouldn't want that either. To be honest, I think this looks pretty good. It may be a little hard to believe for Mr Verhoeven, but that is what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u126	It is indeed difficult to believe, because Mr Zijlstra has been acting like a Realpolitiker lately. We need to work with dictators and be a bit realistic in foreign policy, that was the line of the VVD. And now he pretends to be perfectly normal that there are such high demands on Turkey regarding visa liberalisation that they are not being met and that this has no consequences. Would it not be possible to say behind the scenes in the European Union: boys, please make it work, if you need to relax? Should we not be very careful that we do not suddenly agree to relaxed visa requirements within two and a half months? Isn't it a little too naive of the VVD to think: well, it doesn't work, okay, then it falls away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u127	No, I think that Europe has made a very good appointment here, contrary to the picture that is regularly sketched. I think the movement that has been agreed to explain well. If they meet the visa conditions on 1 July, that is also fine. Then we'll talk about three months. The odds are almost zero. If that is Mr Verhoeven's fear that there would be a development that we would change the conditions for 1 July, then the VVD says very clearly that that cousin could be im Frage, to put it in any language. That's not gonna be the case. That's not on paper either. With chords, it is always useful to look at what has really been agreed. This is what it says and no more than that. As far as we are concerned, conditions are not relaxed either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u128	So we don't have to be afraid that the VVD is using tough language when it doesn't matter that much anyway. Suppose the Turks, when the real question is whether the deal is met according to the criteria, clearly do not meet all the requirements. Suppose, then, under all this pressure from the European Union, we try to solve it and people say: let's relax a little, let's turn a blind eye, let's not make it too difficult. So the VVD says: no, until here and no further, there we draw a very clear line. Then she tells her own Prime Minister that this is also a border for the VVD and that she does not agree with it. So that is simply the firm commitment that Mr Zijlstra is making here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u129	Sure. I formally ask the Prime Minister, because then Mr Verhoeven will also be reassured. I think the Prime Minister has already said it about six times, but he can say it a seventh time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u130	With me the idea of the naive VVD always comes up. We just talked about the 3 billion. The VVD believes the Turks on their brown eyes that they're all going to meet that now. We have just discussed the facilitation of visa-free travel. My question concerns Turkey's accelerated accession to the European Union. The last time we talked about this in this house, my group asked the VVD whether Turkey should ever become a member of the European Union. Mr Zijlstra's reply was that Turkey should never become a member.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u131	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u132	How does the VVD view, how does Mr Zijlstra look at the deal made by his Prime Minister with regard to accelerated accession to the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u133	Here, image and reality are really different. I have to make a correction, because Mr Voordewind just outlined the image that we would trust the Turks on their brown eyes. Well, no. That's why I'm looking so closely at what was agreed. As far as accession is concerned, it does not say 'accelerated accession' at all. It says that the negotiations, the talks on a number of accession chapters can be reopened. That's what it says. By the way, chapters remain closed; let us also note that. To all the parties who are drawing up the picture here, as if Turkey's accession were about to take place tomorrow, I would say that that is, of course, nonsense. Honestly, I think this is about the cheapest part of the deal. Talking about accession costs nothing and does nothing. Here too, it is quite clear that the conditions for Turkey's accession apply in full. We saw what happened in Turkey with the Zaman newspaper a week and a half ago. Colleague Samsom said at Pauw... I liked that this throws them back twenty years in the process. Of course it is. Turkey is further away from meeting these conditions than ever before. Then, while we have a huge refugee problem, you can sit aside in principle and say: pooh pooh, then we should not talk about it. You can also have a bit of realpolitik, as we have done in the past as a VVD, and they are going to have those conversations, because of course they lead to nothing. That seems to me to be a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u134	Are these not all examples of wishful thinking? The wish is the father of thought. The VVD wants it to be postponed for a very long time and says that we will not lose the 3 billion, because the Turks are really going to deliver, they did not do so last time, but now they are really going to deliver and say that Turkey is far from fulfilling those visa liberalisation conditions. Doesn't the VVD really think there is something going on behind the scenes when we talk about speeding up, relaxing the visa criteria and relaxing the EU criteria? Acceleration means relaxation, doesn't it? Now let's not be naive with each other. In my view, Mr Zijlstra is simply being fooled and behind the scenes deals have been made which do indeed lead to relaxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u135	No. Again, it will be very difficult to talk when the agreement says "x," while Mr Voordewind keeps shouting that it is "y" secretly. With all due respect, I can only judge agreements on what is actually in the agreement. I'm just asking the Prime Minister if there are any secret attachments we should know about. If that's the case, I'd like to hear it. But I don't have the impression that this is the case. Let me give you a picture of the present agreement. There's nothing in there about a gear. It says that we are going to open chapters and, by the way, that chapters remain closed. That's what we're gonna talk about. The conditions are not changed in any way. It says that they are fully applicable. However, these conditions are farther away than ever before. On the one hand, I can understand that Mr Voordewind wants to be very principled and says: because they do a number of things that we do not think can be done, we should not talk to them. That is just about Mr Buma's attitude. The VVD is definitely different. We have such a big refugee problem that it would be irresponsible if you didn't even want to talk about it. After all, this is a major problem that can be dealt with. So I would find it irresponsible not to talk about it. I believe that the commitment of the Dutch Government and the agreement in principle before us show that there is a sensible line. It's got to stay on that line. Let it be clear that the VVD would not want us to change those conditions. Those conditions are what they are and must remain what they are. There is no way in which that can be affected. I ask the Prime Minister to confirm that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u136	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u137	I cannot escape the impression that there are all kinds of relaxations when there is acceleration. They go from October to late June. That's a gear; there's nothing else I can do. If they meet only 19 out of 72 criteria now, how naive can you be by thinking that this does not lead to acceleration? At the end of June we will be standing here again and we will see how far the criteria have lost meaning in order to accelerate. I'm just warning you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u138	Mr Voordewind always tries to paint the picture that there are things that are not really there. However, they are here on paper. We also need to get rid of the idea that Turkey is entering this process in some kind of armchair. Turkey has enormous problems. It has problems with Russia and with America. For example, there is great disagreement about the situation in Aleppo and what needs to be done there. Actually, the great powers say drop it. The Turks say that this is unwise because then more than a million refugees will be released. Europe also supports that view of Turkey. These processes play in the background. The Turks also have an interest in this. They have major internal problems and do not want to lose Europe as an ally. I would like to say to Mr Voordewind: look a bit wider than just the Netherlands; look at these kinds of developments and realize that the Turks are not sitting in a chair but are also interested in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u139	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u140	No, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u141	So the Turks would also like to conclude an agreement. They came on their own. The VVD believes that the conditions should not be affected. However, the agreement that is in principle before us does not state that in any way. That's what I'm judging here, and it's not in here. I think it's good to defend. I also think it should stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u142	Mr Zijlstra must realise that Turkey is not a stupid negotiating country. What he's saying here, of course, the Turks hear. They know that Prime Minister Rutte is being sent there by Mr Zijlstra with the statement: do not be afraid, the Netherlands, because these are not accession negotiations at all; we speak for the stage, but it will never become a membership. But in the meantime, the Turks have got their hands on the key. It is very simple: they are going home with the announcement that they are going to talk about real accession. If it doesn't go fast enough, the power's just gonna get back on track. That's the big problem. Because the first deal has not been fulfilled by Turkey and we go along with it by offering a new deal, the Turks know one thing: if they don't deliver again or if we don't deliver for them, they're gonna demand new things again or the power will come back on. That's why this deal is so dangerous. Mr Zijlstra says here that there is no talk of accession, but that is what is being done. If it gets stuck, we'll find out in June. Then we will reap its sour fruit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u143	No, they are accession talks along the framework conditions that Europe has set for accession. They're farther away from these conditions than ever before. Mr Buma knows that too. We were able to see this about the freedom of the press a week and a half ago. There are still things in that country that are not in order. We agree on that. And yes, Turkey will have to deliver. The good news is that Turkey itself has come forward and has said: as it was agreed in November, we cannot manage. The only way we're gonna be able to do this is if we're gonna take all these people back. That's a huge step. I believe that we should seize this opportunity and try to make it a success. Am I sure those Turks are gonna be okay? No. The problem is big; 95% of the flow of refugees comes via the Turkish route. I would find it irresponsible not to seize the opportunity that exists now. If that opportunity were to fade away for any reason, we'd have to come up with new things. Wouldn't it be irresponsible to abandon that opportunity? Surely Mr Buma cannot think that we should not have these talks for that reason? Turkey knows just as well as Mr Buma and if I do not meet the conditions, it does not. We must also be honest about this and not paint an image as if we are giving the whole of Europe away to the people of Europe, how did he say it again? The Turkish sultan. That's just not the issue. Let us also stop creating that contradiction, because there is no such contradiction. I'm about to sympathize with Mr. Pechtold's plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u144	I propose that we broadcast a joint tweet, with a few smileys, which Mr Pechtold can hear, so that he knows that at least one MP agrees with him on this point. However, that aside. If the Chamber gave the Prime Minister the power to negotiate with Turkey, it would have to be a fair and fair negotiation. The Prime Minister goes to Ankara to really talk, but here in the Netherlands he says: don't be afraid, it's not really talking, because they're farther than ever. You'll get to the question of what a fair negotiation is on our part. It can't be. Turkey is tough and will not accept that we deliver nothing. Turkey wants to be delivered. Those negotiators say to their own country: do not be afraid, there will be visa freedom. They do not accept a permanent no. My point is here: they can strengthen this power. They have shown this by simply not stopping the flow. That key was given away with this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u145	These talks are about to take place, but Mr Buma cannot deny that they are miles away from the conditions. Even if they meet the conditions, we will still have to decide on them in this Parliament. In addition, there will be a referendum over. We're far from there. Entire chapters have not yet been opened, not even with this agreement. The Turks, too, have willingly and knowingly signed this agreement in principle. They know what it says. They also have a different agenda at home than they sometimes do in Europe. That's their trade-off. I don't want to get into it why they do that. However, this is the agreement that is in the pipeline and that I am judging. If the Turks didn't do it, we're gonna talk about it again. If they do, we've taken the chance that there is. On the basis of an agreement that looks like this and which I say: give it that chance, I can't say: maybe they won't, so let's not get started at all? That can't be sold in relation to the big problem we have, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u146	Turn, turn, turn and lie, lie, lie. That's what the VVD stands for. I'm asking the VVD colleague just to be honest for once. People are tired of the VVD's lies. I've already indicated it in my own term. The Prime Minister said earlier "mid-March to zero" and "not near zero." Mr Zijlstra also said a month ago, during the debate on 11 February: I assume that the cabinet will move on to new, more detailed, tougher measures. I assume it won't wait until mid-March. It's now mid-March, March 15th. It's not gonna be more mid-March than today. Where are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u147	I'm here, that's okay. I can answer. That'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u148	Nice jokes, but what are the measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u149	It would help if Mr Wilders stopped: the VVD is lying and so on. We are just having a debate here and the VVD stands for the things the VVD says. Will you stop talking to me like that? Now for the facts. The VVD thinks we need to get the issues under control. The Prime Minister indicated six to eight weeks ago that the number of refugees should be reduced. If we want to start a resettlement programme, the number should be zero. That's two different things. The numbers are going down, partly because we have also taken a different decision in Europe, namely that with the so-called wave-through policy everyone lets the flows of migrants go on their way to North-West Europe. In doing so, the Dublin agreements have been restored. This is reflected in the decline in the number of refugees coming here. The results are here. Is that enough? No, we have to keep going, but there's definitely been an act. There is indeed a decline in numbers. It would adorn Mr Wilders if he said: well, good job anyway. Somehow, however, I have the impression that this is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u150	I understand it's painful if you've said something and it turns out to be wrong. That's just deception. You can take that off as something that doesn't make sense, but it's just lies. The Prime Minister said to go to zero. That didn't happen. That's just fooling people. Mr Zijlstra is doing the same, because he was really talking about working on the agreements with Turkey. He didn't mention any other appointments. The agreements with Turkey should work by mid-March at the latest. Otherwise, there would be other measures, whereby he did not rule out any measure in advance, not even the PVV proposal to close national borders. He's still been interrupted by colleagues. And there he is now, empty-handed. The VVD-chooser is again being fooled, by the Prime Minister and by the group chairman of the VVD. You say we're going to take tough measures and they're not getting anything. Do you know what they get? That you're selling our land to the Turks. I can't believe the Turks are running this place. They get the money and visa-free travel and they can join the European Union. Your constituents don't want that. Stop fooling around with the VVD-chooser!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u151	The VVD did not exclude or exclude any measure. This will be decided on 18 March. Well, we'll add three days; forgive us. It will then have to be made clear whether the route through Turkey will lead to results, first in the agreement and immediately afterwards in its implementation. Moreover, Europe has done a second thing. Europe has stopped its policy of waving through. The Dublin agreements have been restored. If you're bordering on countries that let the refugees walk through, you can just close the border. This is happening in Macedonia, Slovenia and Austria. That is European policy; that is what has been agreed. That too is a measure and it works. In the unexpected event that the Turkey deal does not come about, that is possible, we must look again at other measures. Also for that the VVD will not run away. It would be so adorning to Mr Wilders that this is a kind of utopian question, but I will continue to try it if he just admitted that these things have been done and indeed have been done. It's fine that the PVV wants very different things; that's your opinion. But don't go twisting reality and giving it that kind of qualifications. You are wronging the truth with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u152	I understand that the honourable Member is in a bit of trouble with his complicated answers. Look, I didn't promise anything. I didn't promise that if a didn't work we'd do b. You promised. You told the VVD-chooser and the whole of the Netherlands that if it didn't work in mid-March, there would be new, tough, firm measures. Well, it's the middle of March. Again, it will not be more mid-March than 15 March, but there is nothing at all. You're empty-handed. You know what we did get from your party? Last year, 60,000 asylum seekers. That's a few billion euros in the first year, €36,000 per person. The first two months of 2016 6,500 asylum seekers, twice as many as in the first two months of last year. So don't tell me it's working. The Netherlands is flooded with asylum seekers. The money does not go to pensions and care, but to the VVD hobby of letting asylum seekers in. You're kidding the voter, and you need to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u153	The only person who's fooling his voter here is Mr Wilders. We have made it very clear that we do not exclude any measure. This problem must be brought under control. That is why you must have the willingness to make agreements with Turkey in this way. That's why we do that. If it doesn't work, we're gonna have to come up with other things. Sure, because this has to be brought under control. And the figures on the asylum influx in November, December, January and February show that there is a downward trend. That is the reality, I say to Mr Wilders. Even Mr Wilders cannot deny that there is a downward trend. That's the naked truth, but he doesn't want to hear it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u154	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u155	We have discussed the accession negotiations with Turkey in detail. First, Turkey did not want to take back anyone at all, then only economic migrants and then non-Syrian refugees. And now it seems that Turkey no longer imposes any restrictions on the withdrawal of migrants. The VVD considers this to be an important step forward. We therefore very much hope that this agreement in principle will be implemented. After all, we're not here yet. However, it is a good sign that Turkey now seems to see that it needs Europe, just like Europe needs Turkey. If Turkey does not comply with the agreements, the pressure must be increased. As far as the VVD is concerned, this could also be done in the form of sanctions. It remains on the principle of whether you should make agreements with a country that violates human rights and hit the freedom of the press last week. The VVD believes that our refugee problem is of such a large order that we cannot afford to sit around the table just with our friends. We will have to go all the way and use all the means to stop the uncontrolled flow of migrants. Of course, we do not approve of politics in Turkey. But we are only making Turkey co-responsible for solving this great problem, especially in the interests of the Netherlands. However, the VVD would also like to stress that an agreement with Turkey is not the solution to the refugee problem. Smugglers will find alternative routes, even if the main route through Turkey is closed. That is why the VVD is very pleased with the European decision to stop the policy of waving. This means that we no longer tolerate migrants walking through countries on their way to North-West Europe without being registered. This actually restores the Dublin agreements and gives countries the right to close the border if Member States do not comply with them. This agreement is necessary in order to be able to cope with migratory flows through new routes. Because people will continue to try to come to Europe, because they have a much better perspective here than in the country in which they had first sought a safe place. That is incredibly understandable, but we must also acknowledge that we cannot solve all the problems of the world here. Let us not forget that some 60 million people in the world are currently drifting. We have the task of ensuring that decent care is available to them in the region. But we politicians also have a duty to protect our own society. That is why the VVD is not only looking at the situation today, but also at the situation over the coming years. Our welfare state cannot cope with many tens of thousands of refugees every year. It is therefore wise to try to conclude an agreement with Turkey and to make it clear to all these people that an illegal crossing to Europe is pointless. Because that is the only way to prevent humanitarian tragedies. And that's the only way we can protect our own society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u156	Mr. Chairman. Put an end to the drowning, to the smuggling of human beings, to the human tragedies that are now taking place at the Greek-Macedonic border. Provide a humane, sustainable and legal asylum route for those fleeing war and violence. Show that the European values of justice, solidarity and cooperation are not empty cries, but also now, or actually now, can prove their strength. That is what the summit is about next Thursday. A crucial summit, again. The summit to which a joint response can and must be given to the biggest refugee issue since the Second World War. One answer. No collection of loose ideas, conveniently talking different backbans to the mouth. One solution by which we show responsibility for those who come here and also for those who are already here. Such a solution is not possible if we continue to think in extremes, extremes of high walls and barbed wire versus unlimited access for everyone. That solution will not be found if we wallow in our own right and if we avoid uncomfortable choices. The choices are not simple or unambiguous. It is a tangle of dilemmas, which obliges us to let go of old reflexes and self-evidentities. After months of pushing and pulling, waiting for each other, growing distrust and mutual disputes between Eastern and Western Europe, Northern and Southern Europe and Europe and Turkey, the contours of a solution now seem to be visible. It is not an easy solution, but it is an attempt to bring back the justice that was in danger of falling in the waves of the Aegean Sea. A solution that puts an end to life-threatening crossings to Greece and opens a legal route to Europe. A solution on which coalition parties found each other some time ago, laid down in a cabinet letter from six months ago. The agreement in principle concluded last Monday means that Europe is prepared to bring a large number of people entitled to refugee status directly from Turkey to Europe in a safe, controlled manner. At the same time, migrants who still reach Greece via the illegal and dangerous way will have to be reduced after their application in Greece has been assessed individually. It's the only way to stop people smuggling. Only then will you stop the drowning. Only then will you do justice to the hospitality of Europeans without putting their worries aside. And that is the only way to shape a humane and sustainable approach to this issue. However, we are not yet here. Last week's agreement in principle is fragile. The legal, practical and political complications are still great. In order for this to succeed, a great deal will have to be done up to the summit and at the summits of Thursday and Friday. First of all, we must give substance to the agreement to shape both the return and resettlement in accordance with international law and European directives. After all, Europe cannot violate its principles of law and we do not want to violate the principles of law. This therefore means, on the Greek side, a swift and careful individual treatment of the asylum application of anyone reporting on the Greek islands, and on the Turkish side, it means careful treatment of all refugees, not just Syrians, so that the concept of safe third country is really applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u157	Let the approach of my comment be positive. I am pleased that Mr Samsom said that all human rights and all treaties must be fully respected. We have heard the Secretary of State's explanation. We have heard the comments of Amnesty International and the UNHCR. There is every reason to worry about whether the treaty to be concluded next week will be able to be tested in the light of the international conventions with a positive opinion. How harsh is Mr Samsom's statement that these conventions will really have to be complied with and how hard is it to say no if parts of the Refugee Convention are thrown overboard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u158	That is simply hard in last Monday's agreement in principle, and it is hard in our group's terms in the agreement which we hope will be concluded on Thursday and Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u159	Fine. But there was a general discussion last week, in which the Secretary of State gave it a completely different twist. Today, the VVD and other parties also make it very clear that parts of the Refugee Convention may indeed be taken less seriously, thrown overboard. The fact that the VVD says that is up to now, but if the Secretary of State says that on behalf of the cabinet, it is another story, because that includes Mr Samsom's party. So Mr Samsom is helping me by making it incredibly clear to the Prime Minister that the Gasthuizen/Sjoerdsma motion must be implemented in full, 100%, and that no international treaty on refugees or human rights can be violated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u160	Yes, and I am helping you: this is, of course, basically just about the procedural directive that the European Union knows. Article 38 of that Regulation defines the concept of safe third country to be recognised by Greece in this case. Turkey will therefore simply have to comply with the conditions set out in it. It's possible. Only, that is not the case at the moment. Hence my text and the mandate to this Prime Minister and all his colleagues in Europe to make firm agreements with the Turkish Government on this matter. Moreover, if possible, much more will have to be done on the Greek side than on the Turkish side. We are always happy to point out to the Turks their shortcomings, but our own European Greece can also make some progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u161	Okay, I take this signal from Mr. Samsom seriously. This means that the possibility to apply for individual asylum is regulated, that education can be obtained, that people cannot be sent back collectively and so on. Mr Samsom and I know what we're talking about. Whatever question I think of, is the answer yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u162	I know what you are talking about, because you said it a few times in the debate. However, there is no collective return of people, despite the verbal aggression that comes out of the benches.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u163	But it has been said, Mr Samsom. That is what the cabinet has said, as it has been told, and that is how it has become clear. But let me put it positively: if Mr Samsom says that this is not the case, then that is a very clear signal to the Prime Minister and then we know that this does not have the approval of the Labour Party afterwards either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u164	Exactly how it's said is up to you. You make that up out of someone's words; I wasn't there. But I do know what the procedural directive says: you can apply for asylum in Greece and, on the basis of your assessment, if Turkey is a safe third country for you, your application for asylum can be declared inadmissible and can therefore be returned. We also do this with people who apply for asylum from Norway, or even with people who apply for asylum from Afghanistan, because that is also a possibility. People from the Netherlands are also sent back to Afghanistan if they can be safe there. There's nothing new about that. So I understand all the indignation, and I have also read the texts that Amnesty says about this, but that only strengthens me in order to ensure that this is done in accordance with international and European law, because it is possible. I honestly don't understand the people who raise their hands to heaven and say: it can't be! And then let the people just come and drown. There's nothing humane about that, there's nothing right about that. We have an obligation to ensure that this does not happen. I want to live up to that obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u165	Mr Samsom says that very nicely. We all want to live up to that obligation. I think Mr Samsom is very clear on the paper side. He says that it has to comply legally with everything, with all human rights conventions and with all European law. However, we are dealing with a practical situation in Greece. How are we going to ensure that there is sufficient capacity in those places where all these people are still coming? And how do we prevent what has happened in practice over the past few months, namely that individual applications are not handled properly? A few weeks ago, we went there with the Chambers Committee. After months, it seems to be somewhat under control there, but if the flow increases again, it will not comply with the human rights conventions that Mr Samsom claims to stand for. So I would also like to get an answer on the practical side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u166	I would like to make a very specific request to the government about this in a moment. If we stand for our cause, for justice and for the observance of European directives, I believe that we should also enable the Greeks to do so. I also have our Marechaussees, by the way, that of the Greeks, but they are limited in numbers and are busy and our people from the IND are high. I think that we, as a Dutch government or as a Dutch government, can contribute to this by helping, but I have a specific request to make later. That is the practical side, because you are absolutely right: on paper you can arrange it, but in practice it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u167	I am very pleased that Mr Samsom also wants to take care of the practical side, or at least the Dutch contribution to it. We're having a debate with the Prime Minister. He's gonna go back to that top. I hope that he will defend the efforts of the Netherlands in that respect. As President of the European Union, too, he is going to try to get all these countries together. Will the PvdA also go so far as to require not only the Netherlands to do something, but also other countries to participate in the support for Greece in order to ensure that we can actually deal with asylum applications at the level of the treaties in a humanitarian manner, respecting human rights? Is that also a demand of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u168	Yes. In fact, I am calling myself silly, also with European colleagues, to ensure that the same help is offered from other countries, sometimes much larger than the Netherlands, to ensure that this works. All countries benefit from ensuring that this is done in accordance with European directives and international conventions. In fact, they are obliged to do so. The Spanish Government has pointed this out once again. It has experience of this whole situation, because it has agreed on a similar exchange with Morocco. That too had a lot of feet in the earth, but also many other countries, including the Netherlands, have said that fortunately. It is now a matter of making that happen. I also assume that other countries feel that responsibility, as do we. As far as I can't assume that, I called after that. It is absolutely not yet settled, but I hope that on Thursday at the summit there will be an atmosphere of 'let's help each other'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u169	I appreciate the calls. We have just heard from Mr Zijlstra that the VVD will be a guard on visa liberalisation and accession to the EU. At those points we have a hard guard in the form of the VVD. It has made clear statements on this matter. Is the PvdA the same kind of guardian when it comes to protecting human rights and real respect for a humane asylum policy that fits in with all the treaties? Is the PvdA Group also a hard guard in the coalition and can it ensure that both sides of the deal continue to fit within all margins of good?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u170	This coalition has been working together on this issue for a long time. That's special, but it's necessary. I also feel like a guard when it comes to maintaining and monitoring the conditions for visa liberalisation and Turkish accession, for example. I assume that the VVD also feels that it is a guardian of international law and European directives, which we all stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u171	I welcome Mr Samsom's firm words on the role to be played by Greece and on the requests to be made on an individual basis. So it's not like you're gonna get there and you're gonna be sent back right away. However, I still have a question about what he expects of Turkey at the summit. What does Turkey still have to do to ensure that it is really a safe third country? It has taken a number of steps for Syrians. What commitments does Mr Samsom still expect from Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u172	There are five conditions in Article 38 of the Procedural Directive. Four of them already satisfy Turkey. You could say that this is quite special, but it is not really that special, because Turkey has had a lot of experience with refugees for some time, as we know. The fifth condition is that anyone who needs international protection can ask for it and get it in Turkey. This means, in concrete terms, that Iraqi and Afghans will also be given the opportunity to do so, and in many cases it is also possible to do so, especially in the case of Afghans, that the application will be rejected and that the person concerned will be referred back to the country of origin. However, we also do this in the Netherlands, strictly and fairly. There are five conditions Turkey must meet. One of them is still really open. We are assuming that this will also be discussed at the summit meeting in the final declaration, if it comes Thursday or Friday, but I am still knocking it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u173	Mr Samsom mentions the procedural directive, but I think he is now talking about the agreements that have been reached on Syrian refugees, and this does not apply to everyone who has been recognised as a refugee in Turkey. That is precisely what my question is about. How do you ensure, for example, that Afghans and Iraqis also have access to the labour market and that they can therefore work? How do you ensure that they have access to education and sufficient reception facilities? How do you ensure that these people are not deported to a country where they are not really safe? I am familiar with the situation of the Afghans; I myself came up with the example. In the Netherlands, we sometimes evict people to Afghanistan. That is possible, but we do have the right procedures for doing so. Amnesty International of Human Rights Watch is very concerned about the procedures in Turkey. Turkey must indeed make a promise. When does Mr Samsom think that this country will be able to take back all these people in a way that we do not have to fear that they will be evicted, for example, to a country that we do not want them to be deported to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u174	The interesting thing is that the legislation in Turkey is mainly in order on that point, but now it is still about its implementation. That's exactly the fifth condition. It is that people receive protection in accordance with the refugee convention, of which Turkey is also a signatory. If properly implemented, there is no objection for Greece to recognise Turkey as a safe third country. In this way, we can, together with all of us, give substance to the desire, I believe, shared that we should ensure that the crossing is stopped and that the drownings stop in a proper manner which is in accordance with international law, but also, above all, in accordance with the sense of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u175	It gives the impression that if a deal is made in the next few days, the influx of refugees will stop within a few weeks. How long does Mr Samsom think that Greece will need to get the procedures in order and how much longer does Turkey need? By when could this go in? Does he want to fight with me to ensure that we are sure that the individual test can be done in Greece, that we are sure that people in Turkey are really safe before implementing this European plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u176	I cannot give an estimate of how fast that is, but it will be clear that we both want this to happen as soon as possible. Another 18 people drowned last night. We both want this route to stop as soon as possible, which is the most deadly and, by the way, the most criminal route that Europe has ever known. If we see what smugglers make of business there in a way that is not right and must be stopped immediately in the eyes of all of us, then we can only reply to Mr Klaver's question as soon as possible. Let us make sure that those drownings stop and that we open a legal way to come to Europe instead of what is happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u177	We all agree that the drownings must stop. We also agree that sending refugees back is only possible when Turkey is a safe third country. The question is, of course, which is a follow-up to the other questions, when this is going to happen and whether the Labour Party also thinks that paper is patient. Does she think that it is only at the time of effective control that refugees can be sent back from Europe, from Greece to Turkey, and that UNHCR should also be involved in this monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u178	The latter is a deep wish of ours. I hope we can do that. UNHCR has a lot of experience. For this reason alone, we would like that organisation to be involved. I have already answered Mr Voordewind's other questions. Of course, we want Turkey not only to be regarded as a safe country, as Greece has already done, but also to comply with the practical implementation that goes with it. That is quite clear, but it has not yet been fully complied with. That is also true, and I cannot fail to point this out on the Greek side. We are not sending anyone back until the Greek side deals properly with registration, asylum application and return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u179	These are the crucial points that need to be noted next Thursday, but that is not yet the case, because paper is patient. We saw this in the agreements with Turkey in the autumn. That's gotta be coming. I hope Mr Samsom says 'I hear him say 'I also think' that the implementation should be monitored by UNHCR, not only on the Turkish side but also on the Greek side. It is not for nothing that we are not at present able to send people back to Greece under the Dublin claim because that is precisely where the procedure is not in order. For Greece too, therefore, it will be necessary not only to sign the cross. It will also have to be possible to go through the procedure, which is actually controlled by UNHCR, so that people there are safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u180	This is not a question, Mr Voordewind, but a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u181	Mr President, I would like to hear a confirmation from Mr Samsom that people can only return to Turkey once that has actually been established.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u182	Yeah, but I can't help but notice that many of you have some kind of torment to address the shortcomings. Yeah, I got it, too. But let us answer them with just as much torment to resolve those shortcomings. We want this to work, don't we? Or people should say, "No, I don't want it to succeed at all. I want this route to continue, because then people can paddle across the street and lose a child in the meantime." I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who supports that statement. I think we all want this to be done in the right way. I am pleased with all the help in noticing the shortcomings that are still there. I had also discovered a few myself, but I would very much like us all to send the government out with the task of resolving the shortcomings. I would add that last Monday's agreement in principle offers all the points of departure for this. It is not for nothing that it says explicitly 'in accordance with international law and European directives'. That will therefore also have to be worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u183	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u184	It means a careful and fair selection of those legally entitled to come to Europe, initially through the one-to-one arrangements and then through the agreed continued resettlement. It means a quick decision by all 28 countries on the key for these refugees, because with the current numbers it is only limited in sustainability. It also means helping and relocating the refugees who are now in Greece and cannot go further into the Balkans. Much of this will have to be secured by the Prime Minister in Brussels. I would like to hear his assessment of the possibilities and, above all, of the difficulties he is expecting. As I have just said, the Netherlands can also make a substantial contribution to a number of crucial areas, such as the registration of refugees, the handling of asylum applications and the reception of people on the Greek islands. The Netherlands can make a difference there, as our Marechaussees in Chios have shown and show. We propose to increase this contribution in the shortest possible time. The aid to and, of course, the relocation of refugees now detained in Greece can and must also help the Netherlands. It is also necessary to further develop Turkey's demands for compensation from Europe. How, for example, can we resolve the deadlock between Cyprus and Turkey in the opening of specific chapters? What exactly does "an earlier entry date of visa-free travel" mean, concretely? Now that a breakthrough is possible, after the stalemate of the past few months, it is important to continue working with united forces. This opportunity, this perhaps unique opportunity, we must not let go. Human and sustainable: that is the balance we sought and continued to seek. It is a Europe and a Netherlands that remain open and open to those in need, with the sense of reality that the absorption capacity is large but not unlimited, because we must also keep in mind the limits of what we can handle and the needs of our own society. With the proposals now before us, we can approach that balance. Let us make every effort together to ensure that this succeeds, in the knowledge that even if all this succeeds, the issue of foreigners will still require a lot from the Netherlands. A manageable flow of refugees also requires work, reception and integration. None of that is easy. In this respect, too, we expect the government to take the initiatives announced quickly. In particular, in the areas of housing and rapid integration, there is reason to accelerate ongoing efforts. I'm coming to a close. Let no one think that we can finally put an end to this problem on Thursday. The instability around our beautiful continent is increasing rather than decreasing. As long as we are here in security, peace and prosperity and rule war and oppression elsewhere, people will continue to seek a better fate here. The problem of the large flow of refugees will remain with us for many years to come. New areas of conflict and new routes will ask for new answers. Those answers will also be uncomfortable. I hope that we will then find the political courage, hopefully faster than in the past year, to give those answers. Only in this way will we do justice to everyone, both to those who come here and to those who are already here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u185	Mr. Chairman. The UN Refugee Convention is one of the most important pillars of our international legal order. After World War II, it was established to prevent refugees from coming to close borders. The cabinet says that international and European law will be respected in the agreements with Turkey. I have questions and doubts about that, and that is an understatement. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the Refugee Convention should not be blackmailed? Of course, Turkey lies between Syria and Europe. It goes without saying that we are working with the Turks to protect people fleeing war and violence. The Turks are now catching 2.7 million people. That is much more than all the countries of the European Union together. But what is the purpose of this deal? Working together to catch refugees together or to ensure that refugees no longer come to Europe? It is so cynical that we give the Turks everything they ask, as long as they ensure that the influx into Europe goes down. Of course, I also see the light in the provisional agreements. We are finally talking about resettlement, about safe routes for refugees from Turkey to Europe. But how many people does Europe want to resettle? How many people are allowed to come to Europe? And isn't it cynical that in the one-to-one exchange one has to risk one's life by taking a boat across the sea before anyone else gets safe access to Europe? That sounds a bit like a ball ball with refugees. What does the Prime Minister expect from these appointments? Another bright spot is that extra money will be available for reception in Turkey. We must offer people a perspective in the region, not only in Turkey but also in Jordan and Lebanon. But let's be realistic. It will be a long time before we have improved this situation for refugees in Turkey. Yet it is the commitment to quickly send people back from Greece to Turkey. My question to the Prime Minister is: what does the Refugee Convention mean? What does it mean, first of all, in the case of Syrian refugees? Turkey does not need to have ratified the entire treaty, says Europe, if it is material but meets the criteria. These criteria include allowing refugees to work and children to go to school. Does Turkey meet these criteria? The Turks can say that children can go to school, but if there are no schools, what does this mean? Does the government guarantee that Turkey will not return refugees to unsafe areas? And what does it say that Turkey is already closing the borders for refugees from Syria? What does it mean, second of all, if you're not from Syria? What if you're a refugee from Iraq, Afghanistan or Eritrea? We know that Turkey has slightly improved the conditions for Syrians, but not for refugees from other countries. As far as I am concerned, these refugees can certainly not be sent back to Turkey by Greece. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Third. The agreements are based on the finding that Greece has defined Turkey as a safe third country. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the cabinet itself think that Turkey is a safe third country? People will continue to seek security and perspective. If it can't go through Turkey and Greece, then through Libya and Italy. People will continue to seek routes to flee war and misery. If we want to get the chaos under control, we will have to resettle large groups of people in Europe and at the same time improve the situation in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. It's something the UNHCR's been asking for for years. What does the passage in the cabinet's letter mean that an admission programme can only enter when the flow from Turkey has almost completely dried up? That order has to be reversed. If we are to gain control over the influx of refugees, we must start resettlement immediately. Finally. Europe's powerlessness is now being seen every day along the Macedonian border. It's an indescribable misery. I ask the Prime Minister, as President of the European Union, to promote the proper reception of these people as soon as possible, in Greece and in the various countries of the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u186	Mr. Chairman. In November of last year, everyone was in Paris. They side by side expressed their condolences to the French. Global solidarity proved to be alive and well. The world was right to unite in its horror of terrorist acts. We of DENK did so at the time, but unfortunately I did not see this horror and solidarity when last week Ankara and Grand Bassam were the scene of terrible terrorist attacks. That is why I would like to use one minute of my speaking time to commemorate all the victims of terror anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members for observing this minute's silence. The fight against terrorism also applies to the refugee tragedy. We can't do it alone. Solidarity is urgently needed. We should not think in Europe that we can solve the biggest international issue since the Cold War without working together. We simply need the countries of the Middle East and Turkey and they need us. That's why you have to make deals. That is the reality. If the lives of children, women, men and the elderly are at stake, political conflicts and international differences should simply not play a role. I would therefore like to appeal to all parties concerned, including our Prime Minister. Let humanity speak, instead of opinion polls. Let solidarity speak, instead of money. Let the possibilities speak, rather than the limitations. Let the bonding speak, instead of hatred.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u188	Mr. Chairman. Today we mark the beginning of the bloody war in Syria five years ago. Hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians have died and millions have fled. 250,000 Syrian children live in a besieged area, deprived of food, clean drinking water and medical aid. A report that we received today from the children's rights organisations UNICEF, Save the Children, World Vision and War Child shows that at the moment more than 2 million children cannot go to school and that a large part of them have psychological problems. In the middle of five years of war, a generation of children is growing up who know nothing but death and destruction. It concerns EUR 6 billion, visa liberalisation and accelerated accession, despite the Chamber's decision not to link accession to the European Union with visa liberalisation on the one hand, and humanitarian aid for Turkey on the other. I note that the motion adopted on this matter is not being carried out by this cabinet. Is that the answer to the suffering we see before us today? This is a Turkey deal that mainly improves Turkey and not the refugees. Why does Turkey receive another 3 billion while the situation of refugees has not improved significantly? Turkey does agree to take back refugees who are going to send Europe back. However, as long as Turkey is not a safe third country, my group does not see that happening in the short term. That is why I have the following question to the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister promise that determining whether Turkey can benefit from the designation "safe third country" should not be a political balance between interested countries, but that the UNHCR should be involved? I also have a question about visa liberalisation. How is it that this government and the European Union do not relax the criteria and can suddenly accelerate from October to 31 June? How can the Prime Minister explain that? Isn't the criteria being changed? I like to get clarity at that point. In the meantime, we can also speak of a full-fledged war against the Kurds. Not only is bombed in the east, but also in Syria and Iraq. Is there now an international international mandate for the bombing that Turkey is carrying out towards Iraq and Syria? I fully understand when Turkey intervenes when it has to do with terrorism, if the perpetrators are aware of it, but what international mandate is there to bomb from Turkey that important partner, including the international community, the Kurds, who are currently fighting ISIS? At the moment, dramas are taking place on the Greek-Macedonic border. More than 16,000 people are staying there under appalling conditions in a camp that can handle only 1,500 people. At least 70 migrant children are now in hospital. Three people have now died crossing the river. Instead of a bad deal with Turkey, the Christian Union is calling for a Greece deal to end this humanitarian tragedy immediately. Is the Prime Minister prepared to make this an important point as a matter of urgency at the European summit? What is Europe going to do to alleviate the suffering there? What is Europe going to do to re-allocate these people to Europe, to distribute them fairly among the different countries and to put an end to these inhuman conditions? Surely we cannot accept these conditions in the Europe of 2016? Shouldn't the extra 3 billion be re-examined for countries that now also receive a lot of refugees? I am thinking of Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon, but also of Greece. Finally. I'm gonna finish what I started. Five years of war in Syria. For the first time in history, we see that almost no Christians, Jezidis and other religious minorities are present in the Middle East. There is an outright genocide on these minorities. The European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as well as the American House of Representatives, have now spoken and acknowledged that there is genocide on the Jezids, Christians and other minorities. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to qualify the atrocities in Iraq and Syria against these minorities as genocide. I'd like to hear his reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u189	Mr. Chairman. Looking back on the EU's commitments with Turkey, the SGP is cautiously positive in some respects. You hear the restrictions in the joy. Slowly the contours of a European approach to the migration crisis emerge. The SGP is for Turkey's return and readmission of irregular migrants in Greece. The government says the following: 'Traditionally taking back by Turkey of all irregular migrants arriving on the Greek islands would mean dismantling the business model of smugglers and discouraging the dangerous crossing in shady boats in the hope of staying in Europe'. It's a good perspective. However, as far as we are concerned, the venom is in the word 'actual'. Hence the next question. Why does the Prime Minister think that Turkey will actually do this? Colleagues have already referred to previous agreements which have not so far led to a substantial reduction in the flow of migrants. The rapid relocation of 36,000 irregular Greek migrants across Europe is needed. Dismissing asylum applications for resettlement in Turkey as a safe third country makes protection of fundamental freedoms in Turkey more important than ever. However, this much-needed protection is still far away, not to mention the Turkish bombing of the Kurds in the south-east and in northern Iraq. These bombings can even create new flows of refugees. I appreciate what Mr Kuzu said in his minute's silence, in which he remembered the victims of terror, I assume he also took these victims. Turkey's actions make further opening of chapters in the enlargement process towards Europe absurd as far as we are concerned. The same applies, in our view, to speeding up the process of visa liberalisation. According to the cabinet, it is up to Turkey to take the necessary steps to meet the criteria. A question to the Prime Minister: does he really think it is realistic that Turkey should accelerate to meet the 72 criteria for visa liberalisation in this period? We are not concealing the fact that the SGP is highly sceptical about this. By the way, the government estimates that the number of Turks wishing to travel visa-free is only slightly higher, a fairly unfounded guess. As is well known, the SGP has fundamental objections to gambling. In short, Europe's commitment to Turkey really goes too far. Against the withdrawal of irregular migrants by Turkey there is too generous compensation. I would point out that Cyprus, too, recently criticised and even threatened to veto the agreements with Turkey. What does this Cypriot criticism mean for the cabinet's position? I wish the Prime Minister a great deal of wisdom and success in keeping the Turks to their promise and in seeking a fair asylum policy in a European context. Despite all the joy there is about points of light to be found in the agreement, I fear that Turkey, when it comes to it, is not so much part of the solution of the refugee drama as it is essential to bring it to a solution, but is sometimes also, in some respects, part of the problem, in which it manipulates the flow of refugees at will. I have to remember that horrible picture, that iconic picture of the kindergarten Aylan Kurdi, six months ago on the beach of Bodrum. That's Turkey. That picture is a charge against Turkish foreign policy, the Turkish policy of dealing with foreigners and refugees. Finally, I would like to ask one more question. In the debate on the control of the flow of refugees, I systematically miss the role of the Gulf States. I understand that, because we are talking about it mainly in a European context. I ask the Prime Minister what opportunities he sees for putting pressure on the Gulf States through the EU to make their contribution to solving the refugee problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u190	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u191	Mr. Chairman. I begin by saying that I too find the attacks in Ankara terrible. Last Sunday I immediately expressed my condolences and condolences from the Netherlands to my colleague in Turkey. I say that I have done so again. Unfortunately, it was also necessary a few weeks ago because of another major attack in Turkey. This shows how unstable this region is and how also Turkey is affected by the violence in the region. A lot of questions are about the same thing. To sum up, the number of questions is very limited, because they are more or less extended in each other. Before I come to the answer to these questions, I think it is appropriate to say something about the policy pursued by the cabinet and our policy on addressing the international aspects of the foreign affairs issue. There is also a lot to say about the integration, reception and housing of refugees in the Netherlands, but that is another discussion that is not being held during this debate. Tonight is about removing the root causes of migration, managing migratory flows and reducing them if possible. For this, it is necessary to have an en- en- en policy. I've said that a lot here. You can't just focus on Turkey. You cannot just focus on Greece, the Western Balkans or Jordan and Lebanon. You're gonna have to focus on all those different aspects at the same time. You will have to try to pursue good policies in all these different facets at the same time. I believe that steps can be taken with regard to both the Western Balkans and Turkey. Moreover, steps have already been taken with regard to the Western Balkans. However, there are still major issues relating to Greece and there is also a great deal of work to be done in relation to Jordan and Lebanon. I would like to say something about this before I come to the answer to the questions. First of all, I come to the Western Balkans. A great deal of work has been done by the Dutch Presidency. Bert Koenders, Lilianne Ploumen and Klaas Dijkhoff travel in the region. There are summits organized in Amsterdam. I myself am very close to the EU Member States in the region, such as Croatia and Slovenia. For this time, I also count on Austria to do so, because the Austrian decision to take up up a maximum of 80 asylum seekers a day moved the matter there. The Dutch position differs from the German position. In that we depart from Angela Merkel. We have always said that we understand what is happening there. We understand what Austria is doing. We also understand that other countries are reacting to this. It must be part of an en-en-en approach. In that our position differs from the German position. At the heart of it is that it should stop waving, the "durchwinking," the passing of people, "the way through" across the Western Balkans. That stopped, too. That's the good news. Because it stopped, you can also see that the Western Balkans route is closed. This leads to all kinds of humanitarian issues of a very important nature, which we will undoubtedly be discussing. However, it is crucial that the Western Balkans route is now closed. I see Mr Wilders has a question. If you will allow me, Mr President, I will come to the other aspects of en- en policy. This aspect was about the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u192	It is all very interesting: the Western Balkans and who the Prime Minister has called and so on. What is even more important is that politicians keep their word, that they do not fool the citizens and that if they promise something, they keep it. That is not the strongest thing this Prime Minister has ever done. I submitted this to him in my term. It's now the middle of March. It's March 15th; that's all it's gonna be. Can I ask the Prime Minister where his remark that it should go to zero in mid-March has remained? Why didn't he start that? Why did he not say at the beginning of his first term: apology to my constituents, apologies to the Dutch people, because I broke another promise? There's no zero. In fact, this year 137 000 have already come from Turkey to Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u193	This affects the flow from Turkey to Greece. This one is still too large. We are now having this debate because there is a possibility of a breakthrough. I hope that this breakthrough will succeed on Thursday or Friday; that is not yet certain. A breakthrough is now possible in order to achieve a situation where that flow is reduced to zero. That is not an appointment I made with the Netherlands, it is a view I have. I had that view when I made that statement in the European Parliament and I still have it. It says: if you want to solve this issue, you will have to deal with all aspects at the same time. I will come back to this in a moment, also in response to Mr Buma and the Christian Union. I have just spoken about the Western Balkans, but it is also about Greece, Jordan, Lebanon and certainly Turkey. It's not a promise. It's an opinion. I think this should be done, and that is why we are working very hard to achieve this before spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u194	That's a lot of words, but it's just not true. The Prime Minister said here in this house, but also during the talks with him on Friday: mid-March, oh woe, what else we're going to do... In fact, your party colleague in the Chamber said that if it does not happen in mid-March, we will not exclude any other measure, not even the PVV position of closing national borders. You didn't, you didn't. The whole of the Netherlands knows that they are still waiting for that €1,000 of yours. The whole of the Netherlands knows that the Greeks have received billions as opposed to 'not a penny to the Greeks'. The whole of the Netherlands now knows that not getting the zero means nothing. You postpone it again: "soon," "maybe," "with that and with that" and "in a few weeks." If in a few weeks the Turks do not stick to it again, you are standing there again to say that it is a pity. What do you think will happen to your credibility if you break promises every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u195	Mr Wilders is a little panicked, and I understand that, because we are addressing the issue to which he has had a lot of fun over the last few months, including in the electoral sense. We're working one step at a time to get this under control. He panics about that, and I get it, because he doesn't have much more. We do this by working on all fronts at once. You can see the influx is decreasing. Mr Wilders will say: I am happy about that, but he is not happy about that at all. He'll panic if that influx goes down. The current is decreasing from 700 at the beginning of this year to 600 in February to 500 in the meantime. If you look now at what is still coming through the Western Balkans, you can assume that the current will go down rather than up. Then the flow from Turkey to Greece. If we succeed in making these agreements, it is not yet certain that this is going to happen. Not only is the flow through the Western Balkans declining, but the pressure on Greece, which is still at risk, will also decrease significantly, as the influx from Turkey will then decrease. My political analysis has been thorough. I know Mr Wilders like very few others here, because we worked in a coalition for a while. He's panicking, and I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u196	I'm not panicking. The Netherlands, on the other hand, is panicking, because the Netherlands has a born liar as Prime Minister. They're harsh words, Mr. Chairman, but they're true. He makes promises he doesn't keep: "the number of asylum seekers to zero," "€1,000 for the Dutch," "not a penny more to the Greeks." Those are political lies. I don't know how else to describe them. And what are you doing now, Prime Minister, when it is anything but zero? Again, I didn't make that promise, you did. Now you sell the Netherlands out to the Turks. You give them visa-free travel, 80 million Turks who can come straight to Europe, you give them a lot of money, 6 billion, and you say: become a member of the European Union. You can look at the public gallery, but if it were full of people, they would agree with me and say: Rutte is lying again. That's not a panic, that's a hard analysis of Mark Rutte's constant lies!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u197	It cannot be true what Mr Wilders says. At first he says he's panicked and at the end he says he's not. Not both can be true. Still, the analysis, because it's pretty simple. The numbers are falling. The fact that Mr Wilders used exactly the same words in his second speech as in his first speech also shows that he is panicked, because he is usually more flowery in his language and he repeats himself less. It is also always a signal for the good letter that he doesn't feel comfortable. Why is that? In the Netherlands, we see the asylum flow dropping. At the moment, we have managed to reach European agreement on an end to Europe's passing of people. This was one of the reasons why the asylum entry to the Netherlands was so large. And maybe it's gonna work out, too. Maybe, 'cause there's really a couple of tricky nuts left to crack. Perhaps it will succeed in getting that flow from Turkey to Greece under control. That's good news. It's bad news for the PVV, it's good news for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u198	It is bad news for the Netherlands, not only that we have a cheating Prime Minister, but also that the figures from Turkey are not going down and that we have twice as many asylum seekers in the Netherlands as last year during the first two months of this year. So stop that fogscreen, stop lying and cheat. The Netherlands now knows what's going on with you. You do not keep your promises and meanwhile you give money to the Turks and open the borders for them. Yes, you can laugh, but the voter will make you pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u199	I would almost say 'be normal yourself', but there was no reason for that in Mr Wilders' response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u200	Yeah, we've had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u201	We've had it. Again, it is good to see that Mr Wilders is panicking. This means that policy is moving in the right direction. I'll continue my analysis. This was the Western Balkans. I agree with Mr Buma that we then have to ask ourselves how we can best consolidate the situation in Jordan and Lebanon. That is why on 4 February there was a Syria conference in London where a lot of money was made available by many countries to address the problems there and to provide financial support to Jordan and Lebanon. I will be visiting Lebanon shortly at the invitation of the Lebanese Prime Minister to look at the situation there. We know that the situation in Lebanon is much more complicated than in Turkey or Jordan, because it is a small country that currently faces very important issues. I agree with Mr Buma on this in itself. Much will have to be done in Greece to manage the various agreements that have been and are being made. But here I have a difference of opinion with both Mr Buma and Mr Voordewind. It concerns Turkey. You can't work around Turkey. You can't say: I do all things, and that's how I isolate Turkey. The refugees who come from Syria do choose to go to Turkey. Moreover, they have little choice, because that is often the first country next to Syria where they can cross the border to seek protection. Turkey provides that protection. Meanwhile, 2.7 million Syrians receive protection in Turkey. If you want to bring this situation under control, you also have to make agreements with Turkey. If you do what Mr Buma or Mr Voordewind suggests, you say: with the Turks we do not make any further agreements; I focus entirely on Greece and I put my money into it too. Then there is a huge risk that this flow from Turkey to Greece will continue. The Western Balkans are closed and other routes are closed. As we speak, agreements are made between Albania and Italy to prevent it from becoming an alternate route. Other arrangements are made to prevent other routes. Countries such as Austria and Slovenia are highly motivated to keep their borders wide closed. Then there is a great chance that Greece will become the high pressure vessel. That is humanitarianly terrible, because Greece cannot cope with it. It is bad for Greece and it is bad for Europe. I agree with Mr Buma and Mr Voordewind that you must make agreements with Jordan and Lebanon. You're also gonna have to whine about what the Western Balkans are doing. We must pursue policies on this, and we do so under the leadership of the Netherlands as a presidency, of course, primarily initiated from the region. However, you will also have to make agreements with Turkey. I shall come back to Turkey in so much detail, because that is what this evening is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u202	The PM says it again in a way that doesn't add up. Of course, the CDA wants to make agreements with Turkey, but not with a fingernip to speed up membership, for which the Turks deliver something they should have done in a previous appointment with the Prime Minister. Surely the Prime Minister remembers that he was standing here in December with the same story as now, namely that Turkey is going to stop the boats from coming. That is what has been said in this Chamber. What did they do? They let them go on. And what do they get? A new, even better deal. The PM should just stick to their previous deal, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u203	I assumed that the interview with Mr Buma I read this morning was correct: you will eventually have to work around Turkey. Those were Mr Buma's words, and I am now basing myself on them. I've heard him repeat it tonight too, I thought; I see others nodding. That seems to me to be an ill-advised policy. Of course you can then talk about size and the precise detailing of appointments with Turkey. It's fine when we talk about that. However, working around Turkey is a geopolitical non-solution, because then you will not take the important opportunity you have to really manage the issue. Then you don't take the important opportunity to come to care in the region. I would find that extremely unwise. However, I understand that Mr Buma has changed his view on this point since this morning. I welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u204	If we continue the debate at this level, which started with Mr Wilders in the last interruption debate, we will not get much further this evening. I just asked the Prime Minister: you said in the Chamber in December that there was then a deal with Turkey that would lead to no more crossings. On that basis, the Prime Minister based his statement in Buitenhof that it had to return to zero before spring. Now in that same Turkey, with a fingernip, one suddenly calls something else and the Prime Minister says to Turkey: oh yes, that first deal, well, it didn't work anyway, so you'll get a lot more and we're going to do the same. That's extremely weak, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u205	Now it's good to stay close to the facts. The agreements we made in the EU-Turkey deal were about the return of immigrants who did not come from Syria. They dealt with the step-by-step reduction of the number of refugees. At the moment, however, we can make agreements with Turkey about actually ending, so reducing the flow of refugees to zero, including the Syrians who cross the border. In addition, Turkey itself now realises that it is not sufficiently capable of controlling the business model of these smugglers on its own. I agree with Mr Zijlstra's analysis on this point. This is a new element, which is crucial. Turkey is therefore prepared to take back Syrian refugees and other refugees entitled to international protection, such as Afghans or Iraqis. That's a big break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u206	The Prime Minister really said something else in the Chamber on the basis of that previous agreement. Then it would go back to zero. That was the deal about the 3 billion and other cases. Now the Prime Minister says we're going to make an appointment to go back to zero. He'd already made that deal, but he didn't pay attention and that deal wasn't kept. I blame the Prime Minister for that. If you're already making an appointment while criticizing it in the Chamber, you just have to make sure the other party keeps that appointment. Then you don't have to deliver that party any more later because he didn't keep the deal. The Prime Minister does, and that is what I mean by selling out to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u207	These are very big words for the spokesperson of a governing party, who, in my opinion, should also look at the integral considerations. I am disappointed that Mr Buma does not take back the fact that we have to work around Turkey. That's an unstoppable road. I find that road really impenetrable. I don't know where he got that point of view from this morning. I heard that from him last week, too. Furthermore, Mr Buma does not do justice to last year's agreements. It has not been said that Turkey would be prepared to take back all refugees. Turkey was then prepared to take back the economic migrants. Only two weeks ago, so before the summit took place, Turkey was prepared to fill that out and to actually take back all refugees who are not from Syria. The big breakthrough of Sunday 6 March and the summit on Monday 7 March was that it was then that Turkey was prepared to take everyone back. If that were to work, you would have an approach that could actually break the system whereby people make a life-threatening crossing in boats, killing people. I'll come back to why I'm talking about "if that works," because it's really not a race yet, there's still a lot to be done, and we're also running the risk of going wrong between now and Thursday or Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u208	The Prime Minister has been blackmailed by a Turkish tyrant. The Dutch people see that. Two thirds of the Dutch want the House of Representatives to vote against this proposal. 75% of the Dutch believe that the Prime Minister has made a very bad deal. Why doesn't the Prime Minister listen to the Dutch people, but to Merkel and the EU elite? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u209	Well, I'm listening to my own cabinet. I'm proud to be in charge of that. At the beginning of September 2015, my own cabinet gave birth to a policy concept that states how we want to get this problem under control. The central point is that the cabinet believes that there should be shelter in the region, that we should be prepared to bring people from that region to our part of the world if the pressure in that region becomes too great. That must be controlled, and with fewer numbers than the number of people who are now crossing irregularly. Now, for the first time, I have the opportunity to actually make such an appointment. So that possibility arises after six months. Last year, when we sent that letter to the Chamber, I had no hope of it. Mr Bontes says that we are making too great concessions to Turkey. I think De Dog's investigations are partly based on that. I think there are two misunderstandings. The first misunderstanding is that we are slackening the accession negotiations and are prepared to broaden the criteria on this point. However, we do not. The second misunderstanding concerns visa liberalisation. There is a concern that the European Union would be prepared to extend the criteria, but we do not. I think it is important for the Netherlands to know that we do not. We are prepared to help financially with the reception of people there. It is in the interests of the Netherlands and the refugees that we do this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u210	What the Prime Minister is doing now is not in the interests of the Netherlands and the Dutch people, but in the interests of the Turks. He knows that, too. My question to the Prime Minister is to reverse this fucking agreement with the Turks and to veto this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u211	So Mr Bontes says: let them just come to Greece, take the risk that alternative routes will be found. We are trying to close those routes now, but you never know if they will be found again at the risk of coming back to our part of Europe, in numbers that we do not think are sensible, and irregularly. The Netherlands is always prepared to take in refugees, as will we when the flow dries out, but organised from the camps in Turkey and not via an irregular flow across Europe, with life-threatening crossings. Mr Bontes says: let them all go through, do not make agreements with Turkey, because they do not meet our standards. I think that's unwise. Mr Bontes and I really disagree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u212	I never said let them go. Stop them in the sea by Turkey, for all I care, by NATO, I said. Closing their own borders is also fine. However, I have never said: let them go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u213	Of course, that's a completely unfeasible policy, because what do you do? If the Netherlands closed the border, they would stay in Germany. After all, Germany sends them the wave through has been abolished and returned to Austria. Austria will send them back to Slovenia. In the end, they are back in Greece and Greece cannot send them back to Turkey, because Mr Bontes has blocked such an agreement. So this is really unwise. However, I think it is real to discuss what we are doing in return. We're doing three things back. Firstly, we are prepared to put extra money into the camps. That money doesn't go to the government, the president or the prime minister, but to projects in the camps. Secondly, if Turkey has the ambition to speed up visa liberalisation, we are prepared to say: if you can do that, if you can meet all the criteria faster than you thought, then we can see how far we go, but you have to meet all the criteria. Thirdly, we are ready to continue the talks on accession, which have been going on since the Dutch Presidency in 2004. In this respect too, however, all the requirements and criteria will have to be met; we are not going to weaken anything in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u214	Let me return to the Prime Minister's reaction to my speech. He said he understood that the CDA and the Christian Union want to go around Turkey. We were here a few months ago, in December, when it was about the first Turkey deal. Then I asked the Prime Minister in a motion to ensure that the money does not go to Erdogan's account, but to the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u215	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u216	The Prime Minister said that the money does not go to Erdogan's account. We've been a few months. We are now discussing the second Turkey deal and looking back at what happened. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how UNHCR has been placed in a position to better guarantee the rights of refugees and the reception of refugees with the first amounts made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u217	First of all, no money goes to the Turkish government. That is an important starting point, including from Mr Voordewind, and I share that point of view. I think this is also widely felt in the Chamber. Around €90 million has now been spent, including €40 million through the World Food Programme. This concerns food assistance for 750,000 Syrian refugees. That's a contract. In addition, there are 15 projects with a similar commitment, amounting to EUR 50 million, which are now being developed. In addition, a further range of projects of two to three times that amount are being developed. In doing so, we cooperate with all kinds of civil society organisations in Turkey. I know that Mr Voordewind considers it important for the UNHCR to be involved. However, this is not the case by default. The UNHCR will be involved in certain projects, but I expect it will be mainly involved in the process of bringing people back to Turkey in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u218	For the rights of refugees in reception, it is crucial to involve UNHCR, because Turkey has not signed the Refugee Convention. We do that in Jordan, we do that in Lebanon. Only, the Turks won't allow it, because they don't want any spectators. I ask the Prime Minister once again: 90 million has been transferred, 3 billion has been committed. Why wasn't there more effective use of these refugees to receive them? But a very small fraction, 20%, is in the camps there on the Syrian-Turkish border. The rest of you are wandering. There are 2 million people who wander, who have no shelter, who have no work and no health care; the children cannot go to school. What is Europe doing with the first 3 billion to really take the people there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u219	The money isn't just for people in the camps. The money is also intended for people in the communities. So it's supposed to benefit the whole group. No money is being transferred either, at least not to the Turkish Government. Concrete projects are being sought; of course, we are working together with Turkey on this. Then I come to the question that many have referred to and asked: how is this going to be done in practice? All this must of course be worked out in the agreements that we are going to make on Thursday in Europe and Friday with Turkey. Not only the starting point but also the agreement is that the UN Refugee Convention and the European agreements resulting from it are fully respected. This means, in practice, that this will take place in Greece in accordance with Article 38 of the Procedural Directive and that Greece will have to implement the whole procedure very carefully there. Turkey will have to declare its readiness to reach it on Friday to include people who are asking for international protection because they think they are in real need. Mr Samsom referred to it when he spoke in his term of office about the full implementation of the Refugee Convention. Turkey will have to declare on Friday that it is going to do so. This mainly affects the Iraqis and Afghans. The second group that goes back are the Syrians, who stay in Turkey because they can't go back. The third group concerns Pakistani, Moroccans and others, in short, economic refugees. Turkey will do its best to get those people back to their own country as soon as possible. They're not asking for protection either. Iraqi and Afghans take that risk. It is therefore important that these people should be able to apply for international protection in Turkey. The good news is that this is also one of the conditions for meeting the Turkish visa liberalisation requirement. That's one of the 72 conditions, but it's an important one. If you want to get all this done, namely that Greece is acting in accordance with Article 38 and that Turkey is complying with the agreements, then that is how it will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u220	I thank the Prime Minister for the explanation, but I do not get an answer to my question as to why we had to make 3 billion extra available to Turkey, when at the moment only 90 million has been spent on this reception. So there's another 2.9 billion in the pipeline, and yet we're already promising more money. I can't get an answer to that. My main question is how we deal with these refugees. The Prime Minister says they're still going to Greece, because we can't stop all of that. Then they will be placed back from Greece to Turkey, and then we will have to go there and see if they can eventually come to Europe. Isn't that a huge drag with refugees? Turkey had promised to better control the borders there, so that it would not need all that pride, from Greece back to Turkey and possibly from Turkey back to Europe. How can we manage this better than is happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u221	That is the special thing about what Thursday and Friday may be able to do. That's the real breakthrough. Then the zero is not in sight, then you have the zero after a few weeks. How do you do that? Because the refugee crossing it knows that he is in mortal danger by sitting on a boat and knows that he can drown. Besides, he lost money on it, the family lost money on it. Then they arrive and are brought back to Turkey, and then they hear that the chance that they will ever be eligible for a resettlement programme is near zero. So all they have to do is lose money, make a life-threatening crossing, do not achieve anything and do not qualify for the resolution programme. The odds are that the current's dried up if you do that for two, three, four weeks. Because why would anyone board a boat like that at all? That's the strength of this deal. On the other hand, it is a question of whether Turkey itself is able to control all those boat smugglers across that Turkish coastline. They have also actually shown that they are intervening. In the end, there's always hope that they can. And now the Turkish side. Turkey is participating for a number of reasons. Firstly, Turkey has an interest in a good relationship with Europe, also now because of Syria. It has an interest in a good relationship with Europe, quite apart from visa liberalisation. Secondly, no one in Turkey is happy that people from Iraq or Afghanistan or Iran walk through Turkey and eventually try to cross the west coast. This also causes enormous nuisance in Turkey. So Turkey itself also has direct identifiable interests in an agreement. In view of what we are prepared to settle in those agreements, I also think they are'measured'. I think they're acceptable. I don't think we're asking over. I do not think Turkey is asking over. I think there's a good balance in it. If we can actually make those appointments Thursday and Friday, then that power will be gone within three or four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u222	It's almost as if the Prime Minister himself doesn't believe it's gonna work. He himself said: first, Turkey did not want to take anyone back, then Turkey wanted to take back a limited number of people and now Turkey wants to take everyone back. It's almost like there's nothing to it. If I have to believe the VVD and the Prime Minister himself, then the agreements on visa liberalisation and accession are not really relevant to the deal, because they are already linked to other criteria. Then why are they part of the deal? Why did the Turks agree to this whole change, taking everyone back for only EUR 3 billion more in the end? According to the VVD, these other agreements on visa liberalisation and accession do not represent anything. I'd almost say: rara, how can that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u223	Apart from the agreements on Turkey's ambition to speed up compliance with visa liberalisation requirements, Turkey still has many criteria to meet which it does not meet. We're gonna see if we can do that. I don't know. It's a tall order, but we're gonna see how far it gets. It also means that the EU must not slow down itself. For our part, we too will have to ensure that we are not the delaying factor. For example, I am talking about this with the chairmen of political groups in the European Parliament. We must be careful to ensure that Turkey gets on very quickly and that we in Europe slow things down. So we have to work hard on both sides, but Turkey, in particular, has a huge task to do. But at the end of the day, that's not the point. I am absolutely convinced that, given its location and the current situation in Syria and the whole region, Turkey has a great interest in a good relationship with Europe and vice versa that Europe has an interest in a good relationship with Turkey. Is there room in that relationship for serious discussion about what has happened to the newspaper and what is happening to human rights? Yeah, there's that room. Do I have the assurance that the situation in Turkey will be shaped in a Swiss fashion in the coming weeks? No, I don't have that guarantee, but I can assure you we're having those conversations. On Sunday evening, too, Angela Merkel and I raised this issue of what happened to that newspaper that weekend, with our Turkish colleague, because it is not European and it does not fit in with Turkey's ambition to become a member of the European Union. It is important that they know that and that we constantly bring it to the attention of the public. I hear some of the parties here say: yes, but as long as Turkey does not comply, you should not make agreements. I do not agree with that, because then you accept the risk that this flow to Greece will continue to kill but also with pressure on Greece and closed other routes, which are ultimately not sustainable within the European Union either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u224	I'll share that geographical realism with the cabinet. I also understand that you need to talk to Turkey because that is the neighbouring country where most Syrians flee from war. It makes perfect sense for you to work with Turkey. I'm not from the school "not talking to Turkey at all." I can also see from the fact that we have talked a great deal about this over the last few months, that those accession talks to that EU membership are in fact an endless road and that speeding up on an endless road does not ultimately mean that you are going to achieve the goal. That's how the Prime Minister seems to imagine it all the time. This visa liberalisation is, of course, a completely different story. That's just 48 criteria that aren't met, ticking off in two and a half months. I'm not as relaxed in that as the VVD and the Prime Minister, who says, "Oh, I can't do that, and then it's fine, or it'll work, and then it'll be nice. I think that there is going to be push and pull on all sides to make it work and that Europe's standards, standards and requirements are going down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u225	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u226	Can the Prime Minister simply give a very strong guarantee that this will not happen at all and that a few criteria will not be withdrawn behind the scenes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u227	If you were suspicious of me because I would like to weaken on that point, which I do not want to do, then look at many other European countries. There is a broad coalition in Europe of countries that will not find that acceptable and will say: if the Turks say that they will, okay, then we will see if we can do that. Let us be careful that we are not the delaying factor. That is also important, but there is a broad group of countries that say that there is no room for the bargaining with the criteria. The same applies to accession. Then there is Mr Verhoeven's question as to why they are doing it at all. I have just explained this to him. I can also see that his group members are asking that; D66 is a geopolitically interested party by saying that geopolitical arguments play a role in this. This has to do with the increasing use of the flow of refugees as a political instrument. That does not happen because of Turkey, but it does if you look at what is happening in Syria. That happens in a cynical way. 70,000 people are fleeing from Aleppo, rambling on Turkey's door at the Turkish-Syrian border and trying to enter. That flow of refugees is used as a means of power. The fact is that Turkey has an interest in good agreements, precisely because of the situation in Syria and our shared interests in NATO. Look also at the relationship at the moment between Turkey and other large countries in the region, for example the one with northern neighbouring Russia. There are important interests, apart from the issue of refugees. As I have just said, the Turks are terribly affected by the suction effect of what is happening on the west coast, the crossing to Greece, because it leads to a large stream of people from Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan. This leads to major nuisances in the Turkish community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u228	I am still trying to get this whole speech to be a little more specific at the level where the Chamber can continue to monitor the cabinet in a proper manner, because that is going to be difficult in this way. Does this mean that visa liberalisation and EU accession are purely and simply intended to give Turkey, Erdogan, Davutoglu and the population the feeling of "look at us achieving these fantastic things" when it has no meaning whatsoever? If not, does this mean that the Prime Minister seriously believes that Turkey will be able to meet this in two and a half months' time so that this deal can continue? If not, will the deal be blocked from Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u229	I do not know if Turkey can meet it. It's a huge task. Turkey has fulfilled 19 of the 72 criteria. On 17 criteria it makes progress. On many other criteria nothing or too little has yet happened. Turkey will therefore have to do a great deal. A very important element is what I just mentioned, namely that you can ask for international protection in Turkey. That is also important for the appointment we want to make on Friday. It is one of the criteria in the visa liberalisation roadmap. Turkey has that ambition. I am not in the way, but Turkey will have to deliver. We must be careful that we are not the delay. As far as the accession negotiations are concerned, I have often said that I am probably the only one who is still in active political service if we are going to experience Turkey's accession. You'll all be retired a long time ago. Then I will remind your successors that I predicted that here. And why is that? Because there's still so much to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u230	It's also in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u231	That's right. This could be during Rutte XV, by the way!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u232	It could be the other way around if the Prime Minister isn't paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u233	I see Rutte XV is too much for Samsom!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u234	Go ahead, Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u235	I'm just waiting for the Prime Minister to have a dream, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u236	I thought it was very funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u237	Dream on, I'd say. Good luck. The Prime Minister said, quite rightly, that Turkey still has to take the step to comply with the international treaties. I think it is a little too short to leave it at that and therefore ask for it. This means that there are a number of issues that need to be dealt with in the coming week that are now or have not yet been settled. I would like to mention four of them, and I would appreciate it if the Prime Minister would take them into account. One: refugees cannot apply for asylum. Two: refugees have hardly any right to work, so to survive. Three: refugees have no right to education, care and social assistance. Four: the agreements on non-refoulement are completely violated, as the Turks are stopping refugees from Syria at the border. These are four specific points, and I can perhaps mention more, which Turkey does not meet when it comes to international agreements, the Refugee Convention and so on. The Prime Minister knows that the Chamber has adopted a motion stating that Turkey must comply with it. So it's no longer non-binding. Can the Prime Minister promise that this is all going to be the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u238	The most important thing for now in the agreements we want to make with Turkey on Friday is that Turkey, on the first point mentioned by Mr Roemer, declares that it complies with it. This means that one can ask for international protection if one is in a genuine need, if one actually thinks that it is necessary to obtain that protection. The other questions I'll try to take together. It does not necessarily have to be done this Friday, but it must be dealt with in the context of the visa liberalisation roadmap. By the way, the issue of Syrians' work is settled. They can now work in Turkey. That is one of the agreements in the EU-Turkey deal. So that's done now. Furthermore, Turkey must provide adequate protection. That's also part of the temporal protection for Syrians. For non-Syrians, these are Afghans and Iraqis in particular, there are other statuses that offer international protection, such as the conditional refugee status and the humanitarian residence permit. These statuses do not have full access to the labour market and other socio-economic perspectives are also limited. If Turkey delivers this, it will strictly meet the criteria. It is not the case that the Turks necessarily have to meet Mr Roemer's list. For this week, it is crucial to ensure that someone from Iraq or Afghanistan who goes back to Turkey from Greece can ask for international protection if he thinks he is threatened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u239	What's bothering the Prime Minister is that they have to meet my list. In an interrupting debate with Mr Samsom, the Chamber emphasized that it was confirmed once again that a deal could only be made if the international treaties were complied with. That's not noncommittal. That's not a request, it's a Chamber decision. So the Prime Minister should not say, with a lot of fun foreign terms: it is nice that a step has already been taken and there too. No, these appointments are hard. Nor was the Prime Minister concerned that Turkey would simply stop Syrians at the border, to mention another example. And then we haven't even mentioned the collective return of people without serious consideration, which is a right, whether they can apply for asylum. Those are all facts that are now going on and that need to be resolved if the Chamber, taking itself seriously, is to be able to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u240	In order to comply with the Refugee Convention, one important element is missing: you must be able to ask for international protection in Turkey. This is also an answer to the question of when Turkey is a safe third country for the Netherlands. Mr Samsom and others also mentioned this element in their contributions. Being able to do that is crucial. Mr Roemer also asked a number of other questions, about the reception in Turkey, where he could work and so on. I just answered that. In this respect, Turkey has more opportunities, including within the International Refugee Convention. There's not just one model for that. However, it is crucial that Turkey regulates that an Afghan or Iraqi who believes he is threatened can ask for international protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u241	The Prime Minister does not mention the fact that Turks are stopping Syrians at the border, for example. The other is this: if you arrive in Greece or are in Greece and you receive an inadmissible declaration within an hour, that is a sign that the country can collectively send everything and everyone back. This is contrary to international agreements. So Kurds can be sent back to an area that is terribly unsafe, to mention just one example. So don't talk about it. The Chamber made a clear agreement by a majority. I expect the Prime Minister to do the same. That applies to the points I mentioned, but I can mention five or ten more. I really want the clear commitment that there is no negotiation. That agreement must be kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u242	The motion calls for the International Refugee Convention to be implemented. It happens. That is also one of the agreements we have made in Europe. In order to do so, it is necessary for Turkey to be concerned with people returning from Greece rather than people who are not economic refugees and who do not belong to the group of Syrians who remain in Turkey anyway; it is mainly Afghans and Iraqis who allow, if they think they are threatened, to ask for international protection. This is crucial to fully comply with the International Refugee Convention. Mr Roemer then asked a number of questions about the reception of refugees in Turkey. Then I say that the international rules leave more room for manoeuvre. I just mentioned a couple of models. Mr Roemer disagrees with these international agreements. That's possible, but that's how it's done. In addition, under the EU-Turkey Action Programme, Turkey has made it possible for Syrians, for example, to get to work. Finally, Mr Roemer pointed out that Turkey did not allow anyone on the other side of the border. That's another discussion. It's about people coming from Aleppo. They do, however, receive humanitarian aid from Turkey. However, they are not all allowed in. I've had this discussion before. I think we, as the Dutch House of Representatives, should be a little careful about this. I think this is genuinely a way to have the view that Turkey should keep the Syrians there as much as possible, so that there should be shelter in the region and then relief can be provided by means of a resettlement programme, while at the same time saying that Turkey should let in anyone who knocks at the door. I believe that Turkey is dealing with its obligations in a very decent manner when you see how many people are receiving protection in Turkey at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u243	I have a question at the same time. The Prime Minister actually says that Turkey complies with Article 38 of the Procedural Directive except for one point. That is the point that you need to be able to apply for asylum in order to benefit from international protection. I would like to ask a specific question about this. Is it true, then, that if you are an Iraqi or Afghan refugee in Turkey, you can study or work? Is that settled right now? Am I to understand that the Prime Minister is saying that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u244	No, that's not settled. That's exactly the problem. That is why it is important in the EU's agreements with Turkey that it should be possible to ask for international protection. Then we come to the question of what comes out of it in terms of what protection it offers. I have mentioned a few of them, with all these English terms. There are more possibilities. I would also like to beware of that. Yes, Turkey must comply with international agreements. That is what Turkey itself thinks, and that should be part of these agreements. It is also part of the roadmap visa liberalisation. However, we must be careful to ask Turkey to adopt the Dutch legislation one-on-one on this point too, because that is not going to work for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u245	We are not talking about Dutch legislation. We're talking about international law. We are talking about European law. I do not think it is too much to ask a country like Turkey to take over at least that. I am concerned that we will soon have made very patient agreements with Turkey on paper and then move on to sending people back. Can the Prime Minister promise me here that we will not return people until everything is in order? And not only on paper, but also implemented in Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u246	Yes. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We zullen ...]] You want to leave this... no. If you want this to work, Turkey will have to declare that it is doing so. By the way, we will monitor that very closely. If it turns out that it doesn't happen on the Turkish side, then of course that leads to the end at that time. Then Turkey will have to show what it does. Turkey will now have to declare that it fulfils the conditions so that we can start the programme next week. We need to get started as soon as possible, otherwise those boats will keep coming. I really think that after Friday, and preferably Monday or Tuesday, this programme should start. I don't know if I can do that. It's incredibly hard work, but my ambition would be to do it as soon as possible. I come to the specific question about education. At the moment, the Turkish refugee facility does not provide education for non-Syrians, but this is an aspect that we will continue to discuss with Turkey. If more people with an Afghan or Iraqi background stay in Turkey, would it not be wise to give them the opportunity to have access to those resources? At the moment, however, this is not a harsh condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u247	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u248	I find this answer rather bizarre, to be honest. In fact, the Prime Minister says that, at the moment that Turkey promises to do its best for these refugees, but the situation in the country has not actually changed, we must send people back as soon as possible. The Prime Minister has previously said that we must do everything we can to ensure that the situation in Turkey is in line with international and European law. Then it must have been implemented, right? Then just a commitment isn't enough to send people back, is it? Because the moment we send people back, we have no guarantee that these people actually live in safety. So I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister again. Can he ensure that we do not return people until all these things have been implemented in Turkey and there are guarantees that refugees we send back, who are our responsibilities, can be safe in Turkey? Can he promise me that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u249	One. Turkey will have to declare that it is effectively implementing this missing element in the Refugee Convention. So I can ask for international protection. When we are able to bring the first group back to Turkey, which could meet that, it is also crucial that we monitor whether Turkey is implementing it. And if not, of course we have to talk about it, because that would be serious. There are a lot of possibilities to give shape and substance to this in practice. If a deal is made with Turkey and the agreements are made, step one will have to be that we organise logistics on the Greek side. This means, for example, that the people who are still on the islands go back to the Greek mainland, i.e. to Piraeus, the mainland of Greece, so that the new people arriving on the islands can be covered by this programme. That's one. That's a huge operation in itself. Secondly, Turkey must comply with these requirements. Then we have three groups to deal with. We're dealing with the Syrians. You can send them back immediately, because they stay in Turkey. The second group you're dealing with is the economic refugees. You can also send them back immediately, because they can go to Pakistan or Morocco, for example. The third group is this group with which it is most sensitive. So that's what we're looking at, but that's still work in progress. It's all still in the planning phase and there's still a lot to be done. These draft agreements are now a week old. We are now looking at whether you can temporize in that, so you say for example: we start next week with the Syrians, and immediately after that we tackle the economic refugees. Meanwhile, Turkey must show what it is actually doing to provide protection to the people we are talking about. As soon as you feel any good about it, you start with it, you test it and you see if it happens. That's one way to do it. I'm not saying we're gonna do it this way, but this could be one way, so you can start bringing groups back to Turkey on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u250	Before you go any further, I'd like to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u251	I'm almost through. There are so many interruptions. That is the ideal in this Chamber, especially at the level of the chairmen of the political groups. We miss Mr Pechtold, but yet Mr Verhoeven is also doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u252	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u253	There was a question about the extra use of the Netherlands on the islands. The answer is yes, the Netherlands is prepared to do so. Preparations are being made for this. The same applies to humanitarian efforts. In addition, we are already at the forefront. It is important that other countries also do something, not necessarily at the Macedonian border, because that gives us an aphrodisiac effect, but wide in Greece. So we have a more than positive basic position in this respect and we are working on it. Perhaps it would be a good idea to discuss this further in the second term. Then I come to the question of whether Turkey has an international mandate to bomb in Syria and Iraq. Turkey is defending itself against terrorist acts. The Netherlands remains of the opinion that Turkey should act in a proportionate manner, including against a threat such as that of the PKK. I come to Mr Bishop's question on the Gulf States. The inclusion of refugees, which Mr Bishop talked about, is, of course, a UN-led process. It has to stay that way. Through the band of the International Syria Support Group we exert maximum influence on all parties. The European Union is also part of this. Then I come to the question of, I believe, Mr Voordewind about genocide on Jezidis. The cabinet believes that ISIS is responsible for very serious international crimes, such as war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. It is true, however, that only a judge can determine whether there is genocide. The classification of the situation by the cabinet is not decisive in this respect. For the Cabinet, the suspicion that very serious crimes have been committed and are still being committed is sufficient reason to give the highest priority to prevention, and that is what our commitment in Syria and Iraq is aimed at. I'm gonna go through all the other questions real quick. I have already addressed issues such as visa-free travel and accession, freedom of the press, alternative routes and Jordan and Lebanon. Then I come to the question of what will happen if Turkey fails to fulfil its obligations. Well, it's obviously a matter of "more for more and less for less." If Turkey does not comply with the agreements, there will be no visa liberalisation. Then the contribution to the building of communities in southern Turkey will also stop. Then, of course, we have a very different discussion. After that, however, the government will then have to formulate a position on this. Of course, even more far-reaching scenarios will appear in the picture as discussed in the contribution of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for Freedom and Democracy. The first is, of course, that when they do not deliver, neither do we deliver. We know the same thing about each other. In that sense, it is also right. Finally, why do I always warn that it is not certain that it will all succeed? That is simply because between the political agreements that were made last Monday and the further implementation of these agreements on Thursday in the European Council and Friday with Turkey, there are still some serious bumps to be made. Cyprus is one of them. I can now give some reflections on that, but they are as valuable as those of the Chamber. It will be complicated to see if you can get out of there, if there are any intermediate steps to be taken and what exactly will be the position of Cyprus at the European Council. So that's important. Legal safeguards are also important. This is seen in many Member States from the vanguard. That's what you see here in this debate. We're working really hard on that. I think this will work along the lines of Article 38 and the further implementation of the Turkish Refugee Convention. These are some really big topics. In this sense, it will be necessary to consider whether the agreements can be finalized on Friday. Then, of course, comes the whole question of implementation. I just outlined that this is about logistics. I also understand Mr Samsom's question in that context. Logistics on the islands and humanitarian aid in Greece will be a major task. I think I have answered all the questions, although I can see from Mr Roemer's face that this may not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u254	The Prime Minister quickly stepped over the possible sanctions. Last week the VVD made a big point there. The time of the carrot was over and it had to be the stick: sanctions. I have agreed to this, because I believe that sanctions should be effective if Turkey does not deliver. Is the Prime Minister prepared to talk to his colleagues throughout the framework at the forthcoming summit about what will happen if Turkey does not deliver again? I am not referring to an answer such as 'the agreements will not be implemented', because that makes sense, but to the sanctions advocated by the VVD Group and my own group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u255	It is a bit as if Mr Buma, when signing his marriage certificate, also negotiated the divorce certificate in detail. I really don't think that's wise. I agree with what Mr Zijlstra said about this. We have all kinds of means to put pressure on Turkey if it does not deliver structurally. But in the context of the agreement between Europe and Turkey on Friday, to implement it? That's the same as working out in detail what the divorce is going to look like with the wedding certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u256	In itself, the marriage certificate is written in order to be able to allow the settlement to proceed properly in the event of a divorce. In that respect, I would say: do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u257	That really is a legal argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u258	Nevertheless, I do not know whether the analogy is correct. Last week, when this deal, in which we deliver a great deal, was not there yet, one of the important points was that it is time for Turkey to realise that Europe is serious. That's what I keep saying. This means that sanctions must be imposed if Turkey does not deliver. It doesn't have to be in the deal. I understand the Prime Minister's position. However, as colleagues in Europe, one has to discuss the fact that we are drawing this consequence in the event that it is not delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u259	I fully agree with my own party that we, as Europe, have a lot of opportunities to put pressure on Turkey if it does not deliver structuralally, even through trade relations and all kinds of other things. I get that. But Turkey has been prepared since last Sunday to take back all economic migrants and people with international protection, including the Syrians. That's exactly what we wanted. They'll do what we ask. That was always the goal: the flow back to zero, so that you eventually get a glimpse of a structural relationship with Turkey, even when it comes to the refugee issue. Is that the time to make mutual agreements about how you deal with it if it doesn't deliver? Step one will then be that we also do not deliver on our part of the agreements. Step two is of course that you're going to look at that whole palette of possibilities and leverages that you have. In order to devote a great deal of time and agreement to this at the European Council next Thursday, and then to receive a Turkish Prime Minister on Friday, who is prepared to make a very far-reaching agreement with Europe, I find diplomatic and power politics, content and decency really inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u260	I have to say that the group with which the Prime Minister says he agrees, which actually advocated last week: not a new agreement, not a root, but sanctions. The fact that the VVD is coming back from this, because a deal has been made by the Prime Minister, and that the Prime Minister himself will come back from it, will be true, but the CDA Group will soon ask the Chamber to agree with each other at that summit, and indeed not with Turkey: if it does not work, it will become something else, namely sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u261	That is because Mr Buma does not want an agreement with Turkey. He literally says he wants to work around Turkey. We discussed this at the beginning of the discussion. I think that's an impenetrable route. I find this one unwise, too. I don't understand that either from a driver's party like the CDA. We do work with Turkey, for pragmatic reasons. Of course, if Turkey does not deliver, we do not deliver. If it doesn't deliver structurally, there are all kinds of other possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u262	I still owe three answers, but I forgive the Prime Minister, provided he gives the right answer. Before I remind him of that, I have an interruption on another point. This is about the humanitarian disaster in the region, when you see the quality of care in the surrounding countries. The Prime Minister and I both attach great importance to good reception in the region. I heard from the Prime Minister that, in Turkey, 3% of the available amount of EUR 90 million of EUR 3 billion has now been used and spent. Then I hold my heart for what has happened with all these promises for all these other refugee camps, in Jordan and Lebanon. I can hardly see any progress in terms of significantly improving humanitarian reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u263	With regard to Jordan and Lebanon, I can come forward with an update in second term, after I have been officially assisted. I do know that major steps have been taken in the food supply sector, with the World Food Programme. These agreements with Turkey were made in October and November. Billions and billions have already been spent in Turkey, up to 10 billion, on the reception of refugees in the Turkish community and in the camps. It is therefore not the case that the situation in Turkey is hopeless. That is simply not the case, but that is different in Lebanon. There's a lot to be done there. I remember the discussion I had with Mr Voordewind. He's coming to the Interrupt Microphone. We have agreed that we do not transfer the money to the Turkish Government, but it is important that we know that the projects are good, meet the demands etc. It's just gonna take a little time to get started. If you do that too fast, you run the risk of spending the money on the wrong things. In any case, I have referred more often to the absorption capacity of such amounts. You're really gonna have to be careful that the amount doesn't go looking for projects. You will need good projects, such as education and training centres, to give young people the opportunity to develop, or health care. This type of project can actually improve living conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u264	I agree that the amount should not be transferred to the government, but should be put where it is necessary. I would like to hear the second-term figures on Jordan and Lebanon. That has been the case for years and so has Turkey. If you look at the circumstances in which families with small children are sitting in tents in the mud, then it can't be that we still haven't made any progress after months. I would like to hear a better answer to that question in the second term, not only for those countries, but also for Turkey. I'd like to help the Prime Minister remember those three questions. Does the Prime Minister just say that we get a written insight into the spending of the sums? That's what I asked when it came to the 3 billion or the 6 billion. The second question was what the Prime Minister is going to do this week to prevent people from remaining on the Macedonian border for weeks, months in misery. The third question I would like to answer is how the Prime Minister sees his own role in promoting the peace talks. That is, of course, the removal of the cause that we are all waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u265	I'll start with the question about the Macedonian border. I think shutting down the Balkan route was the best thing we could do to move people out of there. The European Council stated on 7 March that this route is closed. As long as there were 300 people going through it every day, the people who were there and those who were offered by the Greeks to go to a better shelter 15 kilometers away said: "No, we're staying here. It's a lottery, but we still run the chance of being one of those 300." "Yes, but there are 12,000 here, ladies and gentlemen." "We know that, but we could be like one of the 300." The paradox is that the closure of that border now makes it possible for the Greek Government to actually engage in talks with the people who live there. The Greek Government can now say: it is not going to happen here anymore, come to a better shelter now. That's what Greece's working on. The second question was what the Netherlands is doing to address the root causes. We are, of course, investing in achieving a political solution to the conflict. Our special envoy, Koos van Dam, the former ambassador in Berlin, works in coordination with the team of UN Envoy De Mistura. We are again a member of the International Syria Support Group. That is a breakthrough that Bert Koenders, the Foreign Minister, has achieved. In addition, although not supported by the SP, I do think it is important, our commitment to fighting ISIS in Syria and Iraq. In addition, we naturally commit ourselves politically and diplomaticly, also indirectly through organisations that document human rights violations. We continue to invest in the stability of Syria's neighbouring countries. I shall return in a moment to the programmes we support in Lebanon and Jordan. The Netherlands is also a significant humanitarian donor. Since the start of the Syrian crisis, the Netherlands has deployed a total of 338.85 million euros for Syria and the immediate neighbouring region. This is, to a large extent, also about the reception of refugees. Mr Roemer had asked for an overview of the spending of the money. In order to prevent us from having to send a letter, I'm going to list it now. You know that we have a small government and that we try to send as few letters as possible, because that costs money. Through the Turkish refugee facility, 40 million is directly available for the World Food Programme. 15 other projects worth 50 million are being developed for such a commitment. The board looking at the use of these resources is engaged in the contract of 55 million in education projects by UNICEF. We are also in the process of reaching a decision for 140 million from the Turkish refugee facility, of which 76 million in April and the remaining 64 million in July. 164.5 million will be mobilised from pre-access funds for education and infrastructure projects. In the next phase we are working on a finalisation of the need analysis. It is now being implemented by the Commission. We do this in close cooperation with Turkey. On this basis, the following batch of proposals will be made, which should be completed in mid-April. There too, the board that deals with the spending of the 3 billion in the Turkish refugee facility will look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u266	One more question, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u267	I asked this because the Prime Minister is now President of the EU Group. How then is it that we are told by the United Nations that they are still suffering from considerable deficits in relation to what has been promised by the international community? I believe that they are not yet at 50% of the contributions that have been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u268	For Turkey or for Jordan and Lebanon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u269	For the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u270	I will return to Jordan and Lebanon in second term. That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u271	Mr Voordewind still had a few questions that had not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u272	That's right, Mr. Chairman. One of those questions I thought was a very important one. We can talk about the reception in Greece itself when it comes to the Macedonian border, but will the Prime Minister also make it a priority to re-allocate these people? These are the people who were already in Greece for the Turkey deal.... the Turkey deal is not Is he going to be hard on these people to re-allocate on Europe? My second question was about the Kurds and the Turks' international mandate to bomb the Kurds in North-East Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u273	I answered that question. In reply to the first question, I say that last week, under the leadership of Klaas Dijkhoff, the Justice and Home Affairs Council took the decision that Europe is committed to doing so, as pressure on Greece has increased and can actually be realized because people are there. So far, they haven't been there. They were already here, but now they are actually in Greece and that calls for relief of the pressure. The issue is that Greece itself must also take in refugees. The Greeks too will have to offer tens of thousands of people a safe place at the end of the journey. Given that this goes beyond its effectiveness, there is now a great deal of work being done to spread people across Europe from the relocation mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u274	I would like to give a brief response to this. Those commitments had, of course, already been made. I thought we'd talk about 160,000. There are now 35,000 refugees in Greece. I believe that Europe's commitment is 6 000, but we still have a big gap. I would like to urge the Prime Minister to raise the issue of the relocation of people who are now in Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u275	That 6,000 is a huge growth spurt, about ten times more than what has been achieved so far. That also says something about why it hasn't worked out so far. To a large extent this was due to the fact that the people were not there. They were already in Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands. I fully agree with Mr Voordewind: we must put enormous pressure on this. But I do not think we have the task of removing all 35,000 from Greece. Greece will also have to cope with a considerable quota itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u276	Mr Verhoeven has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u277	There has been a great deal of talk about the human rights side, the treaties side and the humanitarian side, monitoring the handling of all individual applications and not all of them with recurring collectivity. We have talked about accession and visa liberalisation. We also talked about the perverse stimulus. I asked you to do that. I'm a little afraid of the Prime Minister's pink glasses. I'm afraid he thinks it's gonna work out. He's all in this plan, but how do we make sure that this perverse stimulus doesn't occur? What guarantees are there that Turkey will not think: we will just let more boats through, because then Europe will absorb more of our refugees? That is a point of practice in which there seems to be a possibility that has not been closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u278	For starters, you have to get people who are so crazy to get in that boat. After all, they know they're going straight back. Now we're gonna get really cynical. What if Turkey gives money to those people? I'm just trying to think along with Mr Verhoeven. What can't you come up with to this system...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u279	That has nothing to do with inventing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u280	I don't mean cynical. I actually mean it from the point of view of content. What if you want to think very angry? Let's do that now. Then let's call it man and horse; that can't hurt at all. Turkey can say: we let people cross and we pay for that. I have no clue, but suppose it's so cynical: we register people, they go back and next time those same people cross over again. Then we'll know and it'll be broken soon. Mr Verhoeven speaks of pink glasses. I did stop wearing pink glasses on this file, if I've ever had them. I think Mr Samsom was right to say that even if all this works, it is not yet the solution to the problem. Due to great instability on the edges of Europe, we will face major refugee issues in the coming months and years. In the future, Ukraine will be able to do so. We are talking about the Middle East, but it can also be about other regions. Look at North Africa. But the great current we've seen in recent times, if it works, we can get control. I think it's worth doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u281	Mr Verhoeven, there is also a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u282	I'll be very brief. I am concerned that the Prime Minister has recently been in a tunnel with all these people and that he is now suddenly seeing light at the end of the tunnel. He thinks: I'm almost at the finish line now and I have to push this through. He doesn't want to break his enthusiasm and thinks: we have to make it work now. The Prime Minister talks all the time about distrust and cynicism, but I'm a little afraid we're forgetting some of the mechanisms that have happened in the past. As far as I am concerned, Mr Buma has rightly pointed out that in recent months the Turks have not delivered very much on their part of the agreements. I'm afraid they're saying again now: we can just keep those boats going. That's not such a crazy thought, is it? It's not crazy to think about that again, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u283	I've got another question. Who would be so crazy to get on that boat? After all, you know you're going back and you've lost your money while you've made a dangerous switch. You know you'll end up at the bottom of the list if you don't end up on a list at all. I gave my cynical side a moment's space. I said let's be cynical. What if people get paid to board? Of course, we know who we've had. Those persons are registered and then go back. If it doesn't work, there's a review clause in the appointments. We thought this would be it, but if it doesn't work out, we need to find another solution. The 3 billion we are now committed to will not be transferred now, but in 2018. We will first implement projects for the current 3 billion in 2016 and 2017 and only transfer the next 3 billion in 2018. We think this will take three to four weeks. If it doesn't work in 2018, I hope we have pulled the plug much earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u284	We have arrived at the second term of office. I call Mr Verhoeven. Speaking time is one third of the first time. So that's 2 minutes and 20 seconds for you, including filing motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u285	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. They are short motions, as you are used to from our party. I share the Prime Minister's geographical realism. It is very logical that there should be cooperation with Turkey, the neighbouring country where most Syrians are forced to go. It is not a free choice, the Prime Minister rightly says. I'm afraid of that perverse incentive. Let us be careful not to get into the situation where Turkey has a reason to let boats through so that Europe will absorb more refugees from the refugee camps. I would very much like to say no, as a party I demand that we get the deal back to the Chamber before we, as the Netherlands, agree to it. I also have a motion on accession and visa liberalisation. We've talked about this a million times. The road to accession does indeed seem endless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u286	You'd better start with the motions, because you have one minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u287	That's good, Mr. Chairman. With visa liberalisation in particular, it is almost inconceivable that this should remain within the framework. Now my three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the present deal with Turkey is an agreement in principle whose conditions and effects are not yet sufficiently clear;]] [[calls on the Government to submit the final deal to the Chamber before agreeing to this deal in the European Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Roemer, Mr Voordewind, Mr Bishop, Mr Klaver and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1096]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u288	The second motion concerns the non-negotiation of the accession criteria and the criteria for visa liberalisation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in no way, to agree to a relaxation of the Copenhagen criteria and visa liberalisation requirements for candidate EU countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1097]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u289	Finally, an idea which we have been suggesting for two years, but which has now become topical again, partly because of Mr Buma's contribution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need to increase structural support for the region in and around Syria;]] [[noting that countries such as Jordan, Lebanon and Iraq are under severe pressure from the huge numbers of refugees they are receiving;]] [[calls on the Government to establish structural, substantial and multi-annual partnerships with Jordan, Iraq and Lebanon at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1098]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u290	Mr. Chairman. It is a bit of a debate of broken promises from the VVD. No zero asylum seekers as promised by the Prime Minister, no firm measures as promised by Mr Zijlstra, the voter has been cheated again. You remember well: no €1,000 and yet money to the Greeks and now billions to the Turks. They can also become members of the European Union even faster. 80 million Turks will soon be able to come here without a visa and go into illegality. The fact that the Prime Minister is fooling his constituents is up to now, but that the whole of the Netherlands is being fooled, I find that shameful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u291	Just for a little while, because I always tend to let it go. Can Mr Wilders indicate how the PVV abstained from visa liberalisation? It was on October 7, 2011.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u292	We have never been in favour of visa liberalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u293	In the letter of the Rutte I cabinet, also tolerated by the PVV, the visa liberalisation process was announced on 7 October 2011. No party, not even the PVV, has protested against it. How can Mr Wilders use such big words here, when he himself did not act at the time and this is the logical consequence. Then just stop twisting these kinds of facts and squealing these kinds of lies! You're the one who rapes the truth here, not the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u294	No, that really was the VVD, like on all those points I mentioned earlier, not my party. We tolerated; that is in "tolerated." We have not let the cabinet fall over everything, but we have always been and will always be opposed to visa liberalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u295	Where is the VAO, where are the motions in which the PVV said so about this part of government policy? It doesn't matter if it was tolerating. The PVV had the complete freedom to oppose it. You just weren't. You didn't do that in any way. Now stop twisting the facts, stop accusing others of this kind of thing. Whether you've been sleeping here you can; just admit it or you agreed. Then you'll have to stop writing these kind of texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u296	I understand that it is painful if I blame the VVD for fooling the voter over and over again as a kind of professional liar: with the €1,000 that people are still waiting for, with the money to the Greeks. My party has always been against visa liberalisation and will always be against it. It is a shame that the cabinet is fooling the electorate, but it is a shame that it is cheating on the entire Dutch population. Last year 60,000 asylum seekers, already 6,500 in the first two months of this year and it goes on and on. That's gonna cost us billions. Billions that we cannot spend on pensions, care and all the things that the Dutch want, but throw the cabinet over the bar to the Turks. The Netherlands doesn't want this. Three quarters of the Dutch think the Turkish deal is a poor performance by the Prime Minister, according to polls. Almost 70% say that this Parliament should not agree. People do not want to negotiate EU membership. People don't want to throw 6 billion over the bar to the Turks. People don't want to travel visa-free. That visa-free travel just came in a message from Reuters. I would like to hear the Prime Minister say that the European Commission would have said that it does not have to meet all 72 requirements: if Turkey meets a critical mass of legal conditions, in other words, a whole bunch of measures it does not agree with. That's where we're gonna move. The European Commission says that not all 72 have to be met, much is actually enough. Prime Minister Rutte does not care about the Dutch people. He's pounding, licking the Turks' heels. Afraid of taking firm measures. Afraid of doing what is necessary: closing our borders. If he did, the Labour Party would not see it, and that would be the end of this cabinet. Afraid and cowardly policy of a fearful and cowardly Prime Minister, who is being held hostage by the Labour Party on the one hand and the Turks on the other and who is putting the Dutch people in the cold. I will conclude with a short motion to throw the agreement with the Turks into the trash and make sure that what has to be done is done: to close our borders. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reject the asylum agreement with Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government to close the Dutch borders for asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1099]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u297	Mr. Chairman. We do not need to see any effect of the fucking agreement with Turkey. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the EU-Turkey deal on the asylum crisis is contrary to national interest;]] [[whereas more than two thirds of the Dutch population reject these agreements;]] [[Whereas Turkey has proved to be an unreliable partner;]] [[calls on the Government to veto the agreement at the forthcoming European Summit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u298	I shall table a second motion in case there is little chance that this motion will not be adopted. Then I've got a second best. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the light of previous experience, it is conceivable that Turkey will not comply with the agreements reached on the asylum crisis;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to draw up an inventory of possible economic sanctions against Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u299	Mr. Chairman. A number of things have been discussed in this debate, but one thing has actually been discussed far too little. I challenged the Prime Minister to say what his role as President of the EU could and should be in combating the causes of refugee flows. He could mean a lot more in that regard. That could happen through peace talks. I am referring to what is happening in Geneva. I am therefore referring not only to what Members are doing there on behalf of the Netherlands, but also to what the Prime Minister himself could do there. He has a special role. He is the President of the European Union. The more bombs fall, the more refugees will come and the greater the misery for many people. Nor has the Prime Minister responded to my call for a stronger arms embargo and agreements on such matters. They should be made to calm down the situation in the region. I think that's a missed opportunity. I come to visa liberalisation and the talks on EU accession. You can find what you want and you can bring in 2011 but these things are now seen as a reward for bad behavior. For this reason alone, you should not want to honour Turkey's wishes in these areas. It continues to cry with the hat on human rights, freedom of the press and freedom of expression. For these reasons alone, the Prime Minister should be very reluctant in the negotiations. On the implementation of the International Refugee Convention and other international conventions, I say the following. The UNHCR issued a very clear report on 8 March. According to UNHCR, a country is only safe if asylum can be applied for and if people are not stopped or returned to unsafe areas. But that's what's happening now. Furthermore, a country is only safe if refugee status entitles it to care, education and work. Refugees do not have these rights in Turkey now. So what we're doing now is getting the people there to eat out of the trash can. That can and can never be the intention. That is why I support a motion that Mr Klaver is going to table. Finally, I am very curious to hear the Prime Minister's answers to questions about the situation in the camps in Lebanon and Jordan. I believe that we have been calling attention to this for five years now. Every time the government says it's going better, it should be better and there's attention to it. But the people there hardly notice that in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u300	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers. I must say that in this house only one thought world seems to be possible, namely the Prime Minister's thinking world. Anyone who has a different view either did not understand it, or did not understand geopolitics, or did not act as spokesman for a driver's party, if one wanted to be. However, this is quite a matter. And also the Prime Minister was extremely surprised when Turkey suddenly came up with this deal. The Prime Minister now pretends to be a good and important deal, but one day before he closed it himself, he didn't know anything about it. The position of the CDA is that the Prime Minister should have thought about it a little longer. One of the questions that remains open has just been mentioned by Mr Wilders. I want a clear answer from the Prime Minister to that question. Should Turkey fulfil all the conditions for visa liberalisation? The Commission has now come to the notice that not all the conditions need to be met, but that what is called a 'critical mass' must have been followed. This will be granted to Turkey. Does the Prime Minister know about this? Is that right? If he doesn't know about it, will he send a letter to the Chamber before tomorrow's votes? It must state precisely whether all 72 conditions must be met, as has been constantly suggested during this debate. Or are we going to get a deal in which only some of the agreements have to be met, so a critical mass? As a result, the CDA has been strengthened in the belief that the agreement should not be reached in this way. Even now, there is still a great deal of uncertainty. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that despite agreements with Turkey, the flow of refugees to Greece has not been reduced to zero;]] [[calls on the Government, at the forthcoming European Summit, not to agree to speed up visa liberalisation and speed up the reopening of accession negotiations with Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government to give priority, instead, to financial support for reception in other places, such as Jordan, Lebanon and Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma, Bishop and Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u301	When reading the motion, I stumbled upon the word 'visa liberalisation'. I always stumble upon my words when I come across the word "liberal." The next motion concerns the need to say what will happen if Turkey fails to comply with the agreements. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey has not complied with the commitments previously made with Europe to reduce the flow of refugees towards Europe;]] [[calls on the government, at the forthcoming European summit, to declare that the EU-Turkey agreements are accompanied by sanctions in the event of non-compliance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma, Bishop and Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u302	Mr. Chairman. This debate gave me the impression of an agreement in principle which seems too good to be true. Many contributions in this Chamber question whether what is in the agreements will really be so. Given the history, I can imagine. As a Liberal, however, I do not stumble over that word "I have a huge optimism about the future." Given the problem, can we afford to say no to the agreement, if it seems as good as it seems to be? The VVD says we can't afford that. This brings with it many parties have called for attention to be given to the fact that the agreement must be so. It must therefore be clear that the criteria for visa liberalisation must be met. It must not therefore be possible for only part of the conditions to be met. Apparently, that's been murmured tonight. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction on this point. For the VVD that is a route we do not want to run. The same applies to the accession criteria. They're clear. That has to be met. As Mr Verhoeven said, if you make a little less endless forever, it is still endless. This will probably also apply to the accession negotiations, but they stand or fall with the strict enforcement of the criteria. That too must be done. We want to give the agreement a serious opportunity, because we also do not see any other solutions that have not yet been presented for the large stream coming to Europe via Turkey. In addition, the Netherlands will offer assistance to Greece in order to carefully shape the return process, including the humanitarian reception of the people who are there. To that end, I call on the government. I am also doing so by supporting the motion that Mr Samsom will table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u303	A quick question. We have talked a thousand times here about not negotiating with the accession criteria and the liberalisation criteria. If it turns out that the European Commission is indeed coming up with a relaxation, does the VVD object to this explanation of the deal? Surely the VVD cannot agree to a relaxation of the criteria? Motions have been tabled on this subject in the Chamber, with which the VVD has agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u304	I just saw something coming by. I don't like noise either. I think I'm as clear as I was before. The VVD believes that all criteria must be met. I do not think that there is a word of Spanish, Greek, Turkish or any other language. So that's true and that's how it's gonna stay. That is why I ask the Prime Minister once again what this is about, precisely because of the news that is coming out now. For the VVD it is clear. We have previously supported motions for resolutions on this subject, and there is once again a motion for a resolution in which this is expressed and which we shall once again support, because we consider this to be a critical precondition of any agreement. This applies both to accession and to visa liberalisation. It would be very strange if these criteria were to apply to other countries but not to Turkey. Visa liberalisation is not a gift that you give away, but a whole game of orderly passports and freedom for people who can travel within Europe. That must be careful, and that is why we have these criteria. We're not gonna compromise on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u305	Finally, short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u306	This is, I hope, a clear answer from Mr Zijlstra. If these criteria are relaxed, he cannot agree to this deal. I'd like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u307	I shall put it more clearly, because apparently I am not clear enough. A deal in which these criteria are violated does not meet what we demand of an orderly agreement with the Turks. That's a deal the VVD can't support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u308	Mr. Chairman. Almost a year ago, a flow of refugees, which has been happening under our eyes for five years, suddenly swelled into greater proportions. In September, October, this flow of refugees reached an historic size. Since the Second World War, Europe has never driven so many people. October last year, the European Stability Initiative came up with a possible solution to the refugee problem, which could put an end to those horrible images of people drowning during the crossing in that month, also Aylan's photo, which was able to open a little boy's and a legal route at the same time. It was a wish that was cherished by many in the Chamber. As of December, a number of politicians started working on this proposal; the most important of course was Angela Merkel. In the last few months, Europe has been slowly but surely, unhelpful as it always does, fueled by mistrust but also by the will to get out, perhaps brought to the eve of something unique, namely an agreement that really brings a humane solution to this issue. It is interesting to see that everyone in this Chamber has slowly but surely got used to this idea over the past few months. Of course, from various sides, politically motivated or not, fed by scepticism or otherwise, questions were also asked. But tonight we are getting to the point where I think that perhaps I am speaking in the spirit of those who are not here tonight, namely Mr Pechtold, that we are going to be able to support the principles of this deal with a large number of parties. The people who are concerned about international law, who are concerned about the European directives, have also been told this evening that this deal is going to take place on the basis of these directives and not otherwise. International law is respected and otherwise it will not happen. That is not yet complete, but I do have great political support in this Chamber for this attempt to bring a solution closer. As Mr Zijlstra said, there is still a great deal to be done. The Netherlands can contribute to this. I would therefore ask the government to do so actively. That's what I'm underlining with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the envisaged agreements between Turkey and the European Union on the readmission and resettlement of refugees can render the earning model of smugglers unready;]] [[Whereas the operationalisation of this approach will require considerable efforts on the Greek side;]] [[calls on the Government to provide support to the Greek authorities for the reception of refugees and for the careful implementation of readmission arrangements with Turkey, and to encourage other Member States to contribute,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Samsom and Mr Zijlstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u309	Then there is nothing left for me but to wish the Prime Minister good luck in the next few days and certainly Thursday and Friday. I hope it succeeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u310	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply, but he has not yet been able to remove all my concerns, especially as regards the guarantees to ensure that Turkey has implemented all the issues mentioned in the Refugee Convention or the Procedural Directive. The Prime Minister said about this: we just have to get to work; we're going to experiment. We're talking about experimenting with people, with refugees you send back and who you don't know how they're going to be treated there. Since Mr Roemer and I want more certainty, we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas in the agreements with Turkey, the European Heads of State or Government have stressed that international and European law will be respected;]] [[whereas Turkey has not fully ratified the UN Refugee Convention;]] [[calls on the Government, as part of the agreement, to ensure that, before refugees can be returned from Greece to Turkey, Turkey complies with all the substantive criteria of the UN Refugee Convention and the Procedural Directive, both in terms of national legislation and in terms of implementing policies for Syrians and non-Syrians,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u311	I think extra safeguards are needed before you can go back to sending people back. I also have a motion on the current situation on the Greek-Macedonian border. I'm running out of time, so I can't explain her any further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the refugee camp at Idomeni on the Greek-Macedonian border is estimated at 1,000 people but now houses 14,000 people in appalling conditions;]] [[calls on the Government, at the European Summit, to propose an emergency plan to help Greece to put an end to the crisis situation in Idomeni within two weeks and to include all necessary measures, including the provision of shelter, food, medicines and the taking over of refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u312	Mr. Chairman. Agreements are being made with Turkey. We encourage this, because it is in the interests of both the European Union and Turkey that we find a humane solution to the great tragedy we are facing today. However, this can only be done if the European countries are united. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that efforts are being made between the European Union and Turkey to regulate refugee flows;]] [[believes that refugees coming to the EU should be distributed fairly among the EU countries;]] [[Whereas a fair system has already been developed by the EU for such redistribution, taking into account, inter alia, population numbers, prosperity and unemployment;]] [[noting that there are countries in the EU that do not want to participate in such a redistribution system;]] [[calls on the government, at European level, to press for sanctions for EU countries that do not want to participate in redistribution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u313	Mr. Chairman. I am still very concerned about the implementation of the Turkey deal that we have talked about most of the time this evening. The first deal with Turkey was far from delivered by Turkey. Then why do we have another commitment of 3 billion? I am perhaps even more concerned about the link that has been made and the possible relaxation that we have just heard of. Mr Zijlstra can call me an infidel Thomas when it comes to the deal, but I want to hear from the Prime Minister whether he is abandoning a possible proposal from the European Commission to ease the conditions for visa liberalisation. I have heard that from Mr Zijlstra, but I also want to hear it from the Prime Minister. If we have to suspend for that, then we should take the time to do so, because I think this is a crucial part of the Turkey package. I'm filing two brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Parliament, the Council of Europe and the US House of Representatives have classified the atrocities committed by ISIS against the Jezidis, Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities as crimes against humanity and genocide;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise the crimes against humanity and genocide committed by ISIS against Jezidis, Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Member States of the European Union are negotiating a common refugee agreement with Turkey;]] [[whereas returning refugees to Turkey is an integral part of this Agreement, but this is not possible until Turkey has been designated as a safe third country;]] [[calls on the Government to be guided by UNHCR's opinion on the treatment of refugees in Turkey in its decision-making on the "safe third country" designation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1108]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Bishop, Mr Roemer and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u314	Mr. Chairman. I'll answer two questions first. The first question concerns Jordan and Lebanon. I would like to stress, first of all, that the Netherlands is committed to structural support for countries in the region. I can say the following about the European commitment in Jordan. Since the outbreak of the crisis in Syria, the European Commission has given almost 600 million to refugees and vulnerable communities in Jordan. To a large extent, this concerns emergency aid and macro-financial assistance. Together with the support of the Member States, this amounts to EUR 1.6 billion. This is in addition to the regular programmes for Jordan under the European Neighbourhood Instrument of EUR 0.5 billion. Since the outbreak of the crisis in Syria, more than EUR 550 million have been allocated to Lebanon to support refugees and host communities. Most of it goes to the education sector, but there are also projects aimed at health care, local infrastructure, water and waste disposal. This support is in addition to the regular programmes for Lebanon, again, the European Neighbourhood Instrument amounting to nearly 775 million. I now come to the Dutch commitment to Jordan and Lebanon. Since the start of the crisis, the Netherlands has spent EUR 420 million in humanitarian aid for Syria and the immediate neighbouring region. This is also used for the reception of refugees on the ground. In addition, this year the Netherlands gave 50 million from the development cooperation budgets for Jordan and Lebanon to promote employment for refugees and host communities and for training border guards in Jordan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u315	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. However, that does not make me very happy. In fact, it amounts to what we, the international community, Europe and the Netherlands, have been doing for some time. We have to note, and we have done so in previous debates two years ago, that the humanitarian situation in countries such as Jordan and, above all, Lebanon is appalling. If I compare the situation at the time with that of today, then I cannot see that it has improved so much. Despite all good intentions, I say: fine words do not fill holes. What are we really gonna do about it? The Prime Minister must agree with me that the hairs are too much for you if you see the situation on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u316	That's one of the reasons I'm going to Lebanon. I do not have the date ready right now, but somewhere in the coming months or weeks I am even scheduled to visit Lebanon. I spoke with the King of Jordan and the Prime Minister of Lebanon in London on 4 February. There more than 10 billion has been made available for the whole region, among other things, but there has also been talk of this very topic: what do you have to do to actually improve living conditions? We have an interest in that, too. There is broad support for the idea of care in the region, but if you want to live up to that, you have to make sure that people don't walk out of pure misery. It is primarily about water and food. Much has happened in this respect, through the WFP, the World Food Programme. However, there is still a great deal to be done in terms of further perspective, especially in the field of education and health. I agree with Mr Roemer. However, it is not the case that the Dutch Government does not agree with him, insofar as there would be criticism in his question, or would not do enough. The question is how to do that as an international community. The absorption capacity of these countries also plays a role, because in Lebanon in Jordan it is quite different that you have opportunities on the ground to spend the money in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u317	I remember the previous debate. Then I challenged the Prime Minister a little bit with the question: what can I take care of you, what is your objective, what do you intend to achieve? Talking about it nicely is one thing, but we've been talking about it for two or three years now and it's still not enough. Yeah, they got food and drinks. But as far as housing and many other areas are concerned, it is extremely lagging behind. The Netherlands is now President of the EU. Then we should make tougher agreements, including with other countries, with the same intention as the Prime Minister's intention to make agreements with Turkey this week, so that we can finally deal with the humanitarian disaster there. I hope that the Prime Minister will give more in terms of the objective for the next few weeks and months, on which I can pay him and the European Union. The Prime Minister was certainly saying that the number of refugees should go to zero. Is he sure about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u318	I cannot promise Mr Roemer that the Netherlands will solve the whole problem of living conditions in the camps in Jordan and Lebanon and the proper use of resources. This is not just a bilateral matter between the Netherlands and those countries. It has to do with the political, logistical and infrastructure conditions in particular in Lebanon. It also has to do with how we work with other countries. I can only say that the Netherlands is at the forefront of this and plays an important role in it. Lilianne Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, does so with a great deal of authority. Its position in this regard is also recognised. It is also leading the way, even now from the presidency of the European Union, but certainly before that. That's what I saw in London. We are working on it on all sides, but I cannot make a firm commitment here that it is settled, that is all of Europe and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u319	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u320	I come to the issue of Reuters and the reports on the Commission. This is a communication which will be discussed tomorrow in the Commission and which will also be published tomorrow. This communication sets out two further steps to be taken in the Commission's assessment of the visa liberalisation programme, the road map for Turkey. That's step three and step four. I haven't been able to figure out exactly when step one and two were taken, but there's a whole process behind that. Now it's step three and step four. They're actually saying they're willing to if the critical mass of things isn't met, so not everything, but the critical mass is met, at the end of April based on that progress... So if Turkey has done a critical mass of pending measures, so all sorts of things that still have to be done, they are going to prepare a decision to lift the visa requirement. Next step comes step four. It's gonna be late in June. It is then necessary to make a final assessment. Then the European Parliament and the Council must also agree. That piece is also good, because it shows everywhere that all applicable benchmarks apply and all the criteria of the visa liberalisation roadmap apply. There is therefore no question of a relaxation of the requirements. It is simply an internal Commission process. In the end, they will not come up with a proposal until all the conditions are met. That's the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u321	Let's talk Dutch for a second. My party is not in favour of visa liberalisation anyway, but I would like to have clarity on this. As Prime Minister, you say that you still do not agree to visa liberalisation if all 72 conditions are not met and that the Dutch Government will veto it if the Commission tries to advance it in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u322	Quite clearly, but the Commission... The point is... Yes. The answer to that question is yes. Period. And the reason I am giving this answer is that the impression was given that the Commission would have a weaker position in this. That's not true. The Commission is coming up tomorrow with a communication that it has two further steps to take. In step three, it examines at the end of April whether the critical mass has been met. That is simply an internal Commission process to eventually move towards the Council and Parliament, so the co-legislators, to the proposal to lift the visa requirement. The Netherlands will only accept it if all the criteria are met. That is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u323	However, a little more precise on this same point. Of course, it's okay if it is. The suggestion that is being raised is that tomorrow the Commission will say that a critical mass as far as the Commission is concerned is sufficient to move towards visa liberalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u324	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u325	And that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u326	That's incorrect. They just have an internal trial. Steps one and two are apparently already set. I am not ready to do so now, but at least steps three and four must be taken. For step three, the critical mass must be satisfied in order to be able to move it. For step four, the elevators, everything has to be fulfilled. The same applies to the Netherlands. I'm getting to the motions. The motion in part No. 1096 I don't recommend. This is an agreement on broad lines and the elaboration of various elements is via the Chamber, such as the issue of visa liberalisation and all kinds of other issues. The motion in part No. 1097 is support for policy and, in that sense, it is actually unnecessary. The Copenhagen criteria are not relaxed and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u327	When the Prime Minister was just talking some sort of mix of English and Dutch, I trusted that he was genuinely speaking the truth and that there will be no visa liberalisation. But now, in two breaths, the Prime Minister is throwing two motions on the garbage pile for two different reasons. The first motion does not support policy, but it will then be so. So I'm willing to withdraw or arrest her, but it's just me that's the deal...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u328	One or two?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u329	I'm talking about the motion in part No. 1096. It just happened real fast. In the motion in part No. 1096 states that we still want to discuss the deal in the Chamber before the Netherlands agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u330	That's not how it works, is it? Surely the Chamber now gives me a majority mandate to do business in Brussels? I can't be the only head of government to say, "Nice, but I can't say yes from the Chamber yet, can you wait another weekend?" That's not how it works, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u331	That is indeed a very clear answer from the Prime Minister, but I stand here as the government's controller. We are dealing with all kinds of uncertainties about a deal and we would like to know where we stand when that deal is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u332	All parts of the deal will have to be approved by the Chamber later. I sincerely hope that I can say yes on Friday, on the basis of what needs to be arranged and on which we have broad agreement here. Then all these effects will still be in the Chamber, won't they? If they come up with visa liberalisation without all the criteria being met, or if they want accession without all the criteria being met, then I know that I am going to have serious problems here. So why would I do that? Of course we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u333	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u334	In the motion in part No. 1098 the government is invited to establish structural, substantial and multi-annual partnerships. We all do. That's just policy. In that sense, this motion is superfluous. The motion in part No. 1099 I don't recommend. The same applies to the motion on the documents Nos. 1100 and 1101. Can I do that for short? The motion in part No. 1102 concerns financial support with priority for Jordan, Greece and Lebanon. This is the whole discussion we're having. Turkey is the turntable. I understand this point from Mr Van Haersma Buma's interview this morning, but once again, we really disagree. I need the motion in part no. 1102 so dissuaded. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1103. I explained that in the first period. The motion in part No. 1104 is, I think, a good interpretation of what I already tried to hit a little bit in my answer. I think that this motion gives us a good guideline on whether to actually do so or not, I think it is necessary because it is useful in its work. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1105. What is in it could be, if there were a point behind the word Refugee Treaty. The point is that the procedural directive is also mentioned here and it does not apply to Turkey. Perhaps Mr Klaver or Mr Roemer could take a look at that. If they put an end to the Refugee Convention, then it can, but if the Procedural Directive stays in it, then it can't. That is a European issue. The motion in part No. 1106 I must advise against. It is really up to Greece to draw up a need assessment now. That is what the country is doing in consultation with the UNHCR. The Commission supports that. This was also discussed today in the General Affairs Council in which Bert Koenders represented the Netherlands as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1107. If countries really did not participate in this relocation, there is a possibility of infraction. That's how it works, so there's no need for sanctions here. In such a case, we simply have infraction procedures. The motion in part No. I therefore advise against 1107 for technical reasons. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1108. I would like to refer to the extensive discussion on this in the first term. The point with the motion in part No. 1109 is that we need to talk about the existing criteria. There is an individual case-by-case assessment. That's a judge's test, too. As it stands here in the operative part, I must advise against the motion. I think I have dealt with all the questions and motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u335	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, his supporting officials, the MPs and the people who have followed this debate on the Internet. The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u336	Let's see what Mr. Pechtold thought about it at Pauw's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-31.u337	Then you're going to watch Pauw tonight.
