ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs to section K. I also welcome the people in the public gallery and those who follow this debate in a different way. I would also like to welcome the authors of this citizens' initiative. On behalf of the Red Cross, Sandra Kalsbeek on behalf of PAX, Annerieke Dekker also on behalf of PAX, Henk de Ligt on behalf of ASN Bank and Freek Landmeter also on behalf of PAX. Welcome. Ms Krista van Velzen will present the proposed citizens' initiative from the point of view of the Chair. I would ask the guardian of the Chamber to accompany Mrs van Velzen to the chair. Mrs van Velzen, you were already a member of the Chamber. It's been a while: from 2002 to 2010. For you, this is not an unknown place. Welcome back, I'd say. Before I give you the floor, I note that the agreement is that Mrs van Velzen's contribution should not be interrupted. Members of Parliament may also not put any questions or make any comments. I think the Foreign Minister should be jealous of that. You have five minutes to explain yourself, Mrs van Velzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Madam President, I would like to thank you and the honourable Members for the opportunity to speak here today on behalf of the 45.608 Dutch people who have signed the citizens' initiative Sign Against Nuclear Weapons of the Dutch Red Cross, the ASN Bank and PAX. These 45,608 people are calling on you to introduce a national ban on nuclear weapons. If you look upstairs, you'll see that the public gallery is packed. This is just the tip of the iceberg, because opinion polls show that 85% of the Dutch population want to get rid of nuclear weapons. There is no social support for a weapon that does not distinguish between civilians and military, which is unlimited in time and reach and which has unacceptable humanitarian consequences when used. There is no support for these weapons of mass destruction either in the Chamber. The motion adopted by Mr Sjoerdsma states that the Dutch Government must participate in future negotiations on an international ban. This motion underlines the broad view within the Lower House that the Netherlands must make efforts to ban nuclear weapons worldwide. There is also no international support for nuclear weapons. A nuclear ban has already been introduced by 115 countries and 139 of the 195 countries worldwide now want to negotiate an international ban. These countries are tired of the powerless waiting for the nuclear weapons states and no longer want to run the risk of accidents and the use of nuclear weapons. Following the ban on chemical and biological weapons, landmines and cluster munitions, it is now high time to ban the most destructive weapon mankind has ever invented. The existing fora have not been able to achieve a nuclear-free world. This calls for a proactive role for individual countries. Unfortunately, the Dutch Government is not yet taking on this role. It would increase the credibility of the Netherlands if the government not only talked about nuclear disarmament, but also took a concrete and extremely significant step: to introduce a national ban on nuclear weapons. The Netherlands can then take a leading role in the international negotiations. In international fora, the Dutch government makes strong pleas for a world without nuclear weapons, but points to other countries to implement that wish. The Dutch government maintains the NATO nuclear weapons mission and the 22 nuclear weapons on the Zeelandendijk in Volkel. It also allows new nuclear weapons to come to the Netherlands in two years' time. The Netherlands has therefore isolated itself internationally. We now belong to the minority of countries which feel that nuclear weapons still have a role to play in the current military and diplomatic relations. Unfortunately, the 139 countries that now want to negotiate an international ban do not see an ally in the Netherlands. The Chamber has held numerous debates on the nuclear weapon problem. Several fine motions have been passed. This is the time to complete it and to become concrete. I ask Members: what should the government do? Are you going to accept the introduction of new nuclear weapons in the Netherlands? Are you going to accept that there will be a nuclear weapons task for the JSF, when you have passed a motion stating that you cannot? Are you going to accept that the Netherlands does not embrace the call for an international ban? I know the doubts that some Members have about NATO, for example. The government believes that taking national measures would undermine our position as a credible ally. I'm sorry, but that's bullshit. There are also countries within the NATO alliance that have introduced a national ban. In addition, there are several countries that have renounced American nuclear weapons on their territory. There are also countries that keep the borders closed for nuclear weapons. These countries are still fully-fledged NATO partners. So it's possible. It's a matter of will. It's a matter of political courage. Another doubt that lives with you, delegates, Putin. There are those in favour of nuclear weapons who point to President Putin and see in his power politics the reason not only to hold on to the present arsenal but also to modernise. All nuclear powers are in the process of renewing their arsenals. The United States alone is putting a trillion dollars into renewing nuclear weapons. That's a number with 12 zeros. You can hardly imagine that. That is an escalation and a huge risk to the world's population. Even in a small-scale nuclear conflict, the lives of billions of people will be put at risk. PAX believes that we should join the majority who want to counter this madness by removing this weapon and ensuring that it will never be used again. We simply cannot afford to use an increasing tension with Russia as an excuse not to take steps in the field of nuclear disarmament ourselves. Ascending tension is not countered by newer, more employable nuclear weapons but by de-escalating measures. I would point out that in the past, in times of increasing tension, all kinds of important arms control measures have been successfully negotiated. You know the abbreviations SALT, START, NPV. By joining the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Netherlands undertook to negotiate nuclear disarmament in good faith. However, these negotiations and the subsequent disarmament have still not begun. That is because there is no roadmap and no time limit has been agreed. The Netherlands can play an important role in closing that legal gap, but then it is necessary to choose a side. Is the Netherlands in favour of nuclear disarmament or is the government in favour of maintaining nuclear weapons as long as they exist? Because both are no longer an option. Ban Ki-moon, the UN Secretary-General, who was in The Hague last week, said it beautifully: "My pressing request to everyone is this: be the first to take steps. Do not wait for others or neighbouring countries to begin with disarmament and arms control measures. If you take the lead, others will follow." There is a broad mandate among the population and the Chamber also wants to get rid of the Dutch nuclear weapons task. It is therefore time to lay that down once and for all in a ban. It's possible. What is needed is political courage. Forbidden nuclear weapons, who dares?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mrs van Velzen, thank you for your passionate contribution. It's like you've never left. You may return to the President's Lodge. I now give the floor to Mr Van Bommel of the SP, the first speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	Madam President. 70 years ago, in 1946, the United Nations General Assembly adopted its very first resolution. It calls on states to free the world from nuclear weapons. Years later, in 1970, the Non-Proliferation Treaty entered into force, which contains a globally accepted obligation to create a nuclear-free world, the so-called Global Zero. Although in recent decades Russia and the United States, in particular, have reduced their nuclear arsenals, little has come of a nuclear-free world. There are still about 16,000 nuclear weapons in the world, in 9 countries. Together they can destroy the world many times. Many of the nuclear weapons, including the American weapons stationed in the Netherlands and other countries in Europe, are being modernised. This costs claws with money and also makes them easier to use. This is done against the background of high-rise tensions between east and west, in which nuclear rhetoric is not shy. The SP welcomes the signature action of PAX, the Red Cross and the ASN Bank, which has enabled this debate on the Citizens' Initiative Sign Against Nuclear Weapons. The three organizations have collected more than 45,000 signatures. All these people, including several mayors, signed up for a national ban on nuclear weapons, the worst imaginable weapons of destruction. This is a comprehensive ban on the use, possession, development, production, financing, deployment and transfer of nuclear weapons under all circumstances. With this call, the signatories respond to the views of the people, who have long wanted to dispose of nuclear weapons in a large majority. The call is also in line with the view of a large majority of states. There are nearly 140 countries in favour of a ban. In response to the citizens' initiative, the Minister writes that the Netherlands is committed to complete nuclear disarmament. That's not credible. In fact, no serious steps have been taken in this direction in recent years. For example, the Minister remains committed to the nuclear weapons mission that our country has in the NATO context. And in the United Nations, the Netherlands often acts as a brake on resolutions that really want to change something. The cabinet also refuses to carry out motions of the Chamber, for example the motion by my colleague Jasper van Dijk, which states that the replacement of the F-16, the JSF, should not have a nuclear task. In addition, the Netherlands takes a wait-and-see attitude in the international debate on disarmament. The idea seems to be that until Russia disarms, the United States and NATO cannot be expected to disarm unilaterally. With regard to the latter, the SP is much more in favour of the position of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, whom we received last week in the House of Representatives. He makes a pressing request to everyone to be the first to take steps and not to wait for others to start disarming. If you take the lead yourself, others will follow, says Ban Ki-moon. The SP fully supports the proposal of PAX, the Red Cross and the ASN Bank to introduce a national ban on nuclear weapons. My party thinks it is high time that the Netherlands broke with the unbelievable policy that did not produce results. Anyone who advocates a nuclear-free world must also be prepared to take action. There are still plenty of opportunities for this, including for NATO countries. In the past nuclear weapons have been returned from Europe to the United States. That can and must be done by the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with his American colleagues? The Netherlands can also join all those countries that want an international ban on nuclear weapons. The role of nuclear weapons in military doctrines can be reduced and more openness can be given to nuclear weapons present in the Netherlands. I would like to hear from the Minister a response to these proposals to bring a nuclear-free world, starting in the Netherlands, closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. I begin by congratulating PAX, the Red Cross and the ASN Bank on this citizens' initiative to put this important issue on the agenda and to get it done. To my knowledge, it is the first time a Dutch bank has helped to get a citizens' initiative in the Chamber on the agenda. I think that's a brave positioning of this bank. I'll start with a quote. The people of the earth have a weapon in their hands that surpasses all others in size and destruction. No defense or defense is possible. Materially, they can bring about devastations far beyond our comprehension. Our fear of it will destroy our freedom. Moving on to the attack and trying to dominate the world will destroy our entire life and that of several generations beyond. The attendees will recognize this quote as of American scientist Urey, who, together with his colleagues Oppenheimer, Einstein and Bohr, warned about these weapons in 1946. In the same year, the United Nations called for a nuclear-free world, as Mr Van Bommel said. But we're far from there. When I look at the public gallery, I see people with whom I probably demonstrated side by side and the two major anti-nuclear demonstrations in the 1980s. We were against it then and we are still against it. Every step forward must be taken to get to that nuclear-free world. GroenLinks has been and still is against nuclear weapons since it was founded. We hope that more and more other parties will join us. I am very curious about the contribution of D66, given the media attention for her embrace of a nuclear-free world, starting with a nuclear-free Netherlands. The nuclear weapons in the Netherlands have a limited strategic value. These weapons are not useful to deter threats from, for example, Russia and the Baltic States. Nuclear weapons in the Netherlands are as useful as the nipples on a male pig, Frans Timmermans said. Rude things that are absolutely pointless, Ruud Lubbers said. We have just heard that there are 949 countries that want to ban nuclear weapons. Our government is in some sort of split. I wonder how the Minister will explain how painful this spread is. We want a nuclear-free world, but we don't want a nuclear-free country? I find it difficult to follow that reasoning, unless we still want to have the whole nuclear cycle in the Netherlands. We still want to keep URENCO open, despite the fact that the German investors and the United Kingdom actually want to get rid of it. We still want to keep Borssele open, despite a chamber motion about its closure. The House of Representatives has repeatedly asked to look into this. The thing can't be anymore. It is about to have to be nationalized, because the financial base is underneath it. Is that why the government is in such a state of disarray? The cabinet argues that NATO does not allow a ban on nuclear weapons, but Mrs van Velzen has already done so. I look forward to the government's response to this. The Netherlands must join the majority that forbids nuclear weapons. "A nuclear power station cannot be forced to disarm; conviction is the only way," the Minister writes. The Netherlands must play its part in this. Self-defending nuclear weapons is the most convincing course of action I can come up with. GroenLinks therefore supports the commitment of the citizens' initiative. GroenLinks favours a Dutch ban on nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons out of the world, starting from the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate PAX with 40,000 signatures to get this issue on the plenary and thus on the political agenda. It was already there, but I congratulate our former colleague Krista van Velzen in particular. PAX wants a global ban on nuclear weapons and therefore also in the Netherlands. The Netherlands, within NATO, has been striving for years to reduce and eventually remove tactical or sub-strategic nuclear weapons from all over Europe based on negotiation and reciprocity. The position of the VVD Group has been clear all these years: we support it. Eventually we want to go to a Global Zero. There should be no disagreement about that. The disagreement arises in the question of how to achieve this. Because despite all good efforts, all well-intentioned initiatives and fine speeches: one-sided disarming does not work. I don't need a male pig for that, because anyone who knows anything about the development of pigs, knows that the pig that is always on the back mem at the female pig that doesn't have nipples is developing. An isolated position only leads to the rest ignoring you. So one-sided disarming doesn't work. Taking unilateral steps is unwise and undesirable. In the current global security situation, this is even stronger than in the last decade. This has a number of reasons. The geopolitical and geostrategic situation is forcing those who are now openly flirting with unilateral disarmament to repent. Nowhere is this illustrated as well as in the United States where President Bush has finally taken much more significant steps towards disarmament than Obama. Under Bush, the number of sharp nuclear weapons was reduced from 10,000 to about 5,000. That's a half ring. Since Obama's promising speech in Prague on a significant reduction in the number of nuclear weapons and their role in the US security doctrine, concrete actions have been left out. The number of operational nuclear weapons dropped under Obama from 4,900 to 4,700. So from a 50% drop under Bush, a half cut, one went down to only 5% under Obama. That's the difference between making speeches and actually doing something. Bush Sr. and Bush Jr. were responsible for the largest decreases in the nuclear arsenal. Those are the figures that lead to reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	The difference between a male pig and a female pig should be disregarded. Timmermans' quote was about the fact that a male pig doesn't need nipples. We have agreements on chemical weapons and the non-use of certain cluster munitions. I assume that the VVD still believes that we should restrict ourselves and that we should simply not want certain weapons worldwide. If you know that in Hiroshima one bomb killed 80,000 civilians immediately because of the radiation and the intense heat, why couldn't that same argument, the quote I just gave you, stand up for those improbably devastating nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	All ABC weapons, nuclear weapons, biological weapons and chemical weapons must be removed from the world. In the case of certain weapons, such as chemical weapons, there is much more broad international support, I think 195 countries have signed agreements and resolutions in this area than other weapons. My group has made a proposal to further limit chemical weapons, of which we have recently seen the deployment in Syria at the end of 2013. Those are concrete proposals to deal with them. At the same time, with the other weapons, in particular nuclear weapons, we see an increase in proliferation, an increase in countries that think they are safer by taking nuclear weapons. If Mrs van Tongeren were to start from reality, we would at least be able to achieve something, but if she continues to draw attention to the horror of the weapon, which none of us here deny, she would not achieve anything. She's Obama and I'm Bush in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'll take this as a compliment, because I'd rather be Obama than Bush. If 159 countries are against chemical weapons, that is an overwhelming majority and we can work with it. If 139 countries consider that they want to focus in their own country on no nuclear weapons and start with nuclear weapons in their own country, then do I not find the VVD on my side? It therefore considers it essential for world peace that nuclear weapons are stationed on Dutch territory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	I have not made any comments about this and Mrs Van Tongeren will not hear them from me either. She spoke of those 139 countries, but 193 countries have ratified the resolution on chemical weapons. Still, that weapon was deployed two years ago. Mrs Van Tongeren should vote that to think. Then she can say that she prefers Obama, but if it's serious to her and she signed this petition, she should not want to be here. He had nice speeches, but he didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u12	Recent developments have made disarmament an even more complex issue. With the red line Obama drew and then didn't maintain in Syria, the signal was given to states that ultimata, including large countries, are no longer taken seriously and that you better have a deterrent weapon than depend on allies that are not trustworthy. The events in Ukraine also numb the incentives for disarmament. In the Budapest Memorandum of 1994, Ukraine renounced its nuclear weapons. It signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty in exchange for the recognition of sovereignty and secure borders. This is a good example of one-sided development: 1,200 warheads less and a totally safe nuclear-free state, a third of the Soviet arsenal. What lesson did Ukraine learn from this? It would have been better to keep those weapons or even point them at Moscow. That's what Kiev says now. And the chance of an invasion of Crimea would have been less in their eyes. That is a message to other countries that think arming is a better guarantee of protecting their own security. Countries such as Pakistan, Turkey, Yemen and Saudi Arabia are all thinking about this. And then we have Russia that does not take it so closely with the territorial integrity of its neighbours Georgia and Ukraine. Russia regards these weapons as an escalation tool, as demonstrated by the latest security strategy, which can freeze confessional conflicts. In Russian military exercises, nuclear weapons also play an important role. In 2013, Russia held an exercise that ended with a simulation of a nuclear bombardment on... Warsaw, a capital in the European Union! All these developments lead us to believe that you cannot take unilateral steps. That's it. That's it. That's the proof of the past few years. What's to be done? What opportunities does the Netherlands, and therefore the Minister, see for strengthening the role of the Netherlands as a driving force for international negotiations and developments on the world stage? For example, a position in the Security Council, which we could one day have, could be an important means of doing so. I've already made proposals for chemical weapons. You could think about nuclear weapons along those lines. Finally, I would like to stress the need not only for nuclear weapons to be modernised, but also for the military and thus nuclear doctrine of NATO to be modernised in a way that responds to the main geopolitical changes within NATO territory and beyond. The Netherlands must dare to play a leading role in this doctrineal modernisation of NATO by investing in nuclear strategic knowledge and using new ideas on the nuclear doctrine. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Ten Broeke and the VVD are consistent in their views: nuclear weapons are the cornerstone of security policy and they are also modernising and developing within it. If you support and shape the policy in this way, you are actually contributing to the further spread of nuclear weapons around the world. My question concerns the position of the Netherlands. In the Dutch debate, Mr Ten Broeke also just did, no openness is given about the presence of nuclear weapons in the Netherlands. In NATO, this issue has been and may be discussed. Does Mr Ten Broeke share the view of the SP that we should also promote in the Netherlands the possibility of talking openly about nuclear weapons that may be present in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u14	I am in favour of sub-strategic or tactical nuclear weapons being discussed in NATO, as well as tactical nuclear weapons in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr Ten Broeke answers a question that has not been asked. Of course you can, but it forces me to repeat my question. It's about the Dutch situation. That is also what this citizens' initiative is aimed at. A large part of the Dutch population is concerned. Do you share the view of the SP that the government should promote that we should be able to talk about the Dutch situation and the possible presence of nuclear weapons on Dutch territory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u16	I am in favour of talks, I myself have just called for this on NATO's nuclear strategy. It must always be seen in NATO context. That is what I think lies in the question. So I can only say about that part of the question: of course it must be discussed in NATO. For the rest, I distance myself from the fact that Mr Van Bommel has just said that this classic VVD approach contributes to proliferation. The opposite is the case, as I have just argued with the example of Ukraine and not maintaining the red line by the Americans in Syria. That has contributed to the fact that states have come to the conclusion that they need more nuclear weapons instead of less. This should also encourage the initiators and parties such as the SP to think about it. I'm afraid it doesn't work today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Van Bommel has been asked to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u18	Of course, Mr. Chairman. The point is that we can all see that this weapon does not distinguish between soldiers and civilians. In that sense, it is a reprehensible weapon. This has been decided by the International Court of Justice. Internationally, the Non-Proliferation Treaty sets out objectives which the VVD also supports. At the same time, we do not see any serious work being done on disarmament in the field of nuclear weapons. The Netherlands is lagging behind some other countries, including Europe. That should be addressed by Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u19	I call Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u20	Actually, that's what my question is about. Mr Ten Broeke made a flaming argument that nuclear weapons should be out of the world. That is what the VVD has been saying for years, but that must be done in two ways. Is the VVD currently satisfied with the commitment of this foreign minister? The same minister says in a letter that it is not appropriate at the moment to make full use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u21	If we could obtain a position in the Security Council, which we all of course hope for, it might be a good way to look with a number of nuclear states that are also in the Security Council to see if we can get a little further. But again, one-sidedness has proven over and over again in recent years to lead to the opposite. Speeches from Obama lead to the opposite. Failure to maintain a red line leads to more states wanting to acquire nuclear weapons. The one-sided disarming of Ukraine, of a third of the Soviet Arsenal, where borders are not respected, leads people to think in Kiev: if only we had kept them. Unilateral steps lead to greater insecurity. That's the lesson of the past few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u22	That argument and the commitment of the VVD are clear. But we still don't know if we're part of the Security Council, so it's a bit of future music. At the moment we participate in the open-ended working group. There we could adopt a more proactive attitude than is currently the case. That is what we read in the Minister's letter, which says that it is difficult given the circumstances with the threat of the Russians. Does the VVD think that this minister might need a little support after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u23	This minister generally does not need any support from me, and I do not think he does. I think he's convinced. We went to New York with him last year. We have seen an enthusiastic minister there when it comes to nuclear non-proliferation and the reduction of numbers. In my opinion, therefore, the Netherlands does not need so much encouragement. What the Netherlands naturally needs is leverage, because we are a non-nuclear state. The Netherlands needs us to reach agreement and not constantly send the minister out with impossible tasks. That's why I'm trying to come up with a possible assignment. You have just heard me about the position of the Security Council. I have added a second point to that. This requires the House to acknowledge that we are investing in nuclear knowledge, which we have built up, for example, with URENCO, and that we are not throwing it away. We must use this position, as has also been shown with the NSS debate in the Netherlands, to get the countries that are perhaps now drawing the wrong conclusion on the right path. I see room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. Debates on nuclear weapons and certainly a debate like today on the Citizens' Initiative Sign Against Nuclear Weapons are always a bit personal to me. My grandparents on my mother's side were both, separated from each other, in jap camps when the Americans dropped two atomic bombs on Nagasaki and Hiroshima. It didn't just mean that they got out, it also meant that they survived the Jap camps. That makes my position a little weird today. I probably wouldn't have stood here without an atomic bomb, but now that I'm standing there, I'd like to argue for a world without nuclear bombs. Nuclear weapons out of the world. That's what Obama wants. That's what the former prime ministers Lubbers and Cook want. This is what the people behind this citizens' initiative, PAX, the Red Cross and all those interested in the gallery want. And I thank them very much for their work. Nuclear weapons out of the world. You'd rather do that today than tomorrow, but you can't do it from today to tomorrow. The fut seems a bit out of the discussion now that the tensions between Russia and the West are flared up again. We have just heard Mr Ten Broeke. However, that makes it more important to take meaningful steps, which makes it more important to move in the direction of this Global Zero. I have three proposals from my side today. That is, firstly, openness about the nuclear weapons in the Netherlands and the agreements with the United States. Let it be over with that charade about Volkel. Transparency here also makes it much more difficult for Russia to refuse to be transparent about its arsenal. The Minister also seems to agree that, because he spoke at the highest level in the United States and was also negotiating this in NATO. My group is very interested in the state of play in the discussions on this matter. I ask the Minister to respond to this. My group would also like to know what agreements the Netherlands and the United States made at the time on the placement and maintenance of nuclear weapons in the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to send the bilateral amounts on this to the Chamber? I'd like a response from the Minister. Secondly, D66 is in favour of a global ban on nuclear weapons. We must open up the international debate. We are in favour of a treaty on this. In a motion, the Chamber also instructed the Minister to do so. That was a motion from the SP, the PvdA and myself. I am looking at Mr Knops or his group who has also supported, but not this time. The working group has been set up and the Netherlands will therefore also take part in the discussions. The Minister says that the timing of a ban at the moment is not so good, but that is contrary to his response to the citizens' initiative. It was because the Netherlands supports the idea of a nuclear weapons ban in a nuclear-free world. What does the Minister want now? Is the position that the Netherlands wants a nuclear weapons ban and a nuclear-free world or does the Netherlands say that is not the time? With what message and with what agenda will the Netherlands participate in the talks? Finally, on a national ban. D66 wants the Netherlands to no longer have nuclear weapons tasks. The Chamber has also expressed its views on this issue by a large majority and against the possibility of arming the JSF with nuclear weapons, although the cabinet seems to ignore that statement. A national ban on nuclear weapons such as more than 115 other countries, including allies of the Netherlands such as Iceland and Lithuania, is useful. I think this could be useful. I also think that this is a sympathetic proposal within the framework of Global Zero. But let us use this proposal to take two flies with one stone: not only in the Netherlands no more nuclear weapons, but also to use it to achieve further disarmament elsewhere in the world. That is also my appeal today to Minister Koenders. In 2017, nuclear weapons in the Netherlands will be modernised. Use that modernisation to turn the global nuclear disarmament around. Make it clear to Russia that we want to get rid of 20 nuclear weapons in Volkel and that their observers will be welcome in due course to monitor that independently, but that we expect something to be done about it. In other words, use this pressure from the public gallery, from the two organizations and from the Dutch society to give a signal to a national ban and, of course, through that national ban, to further nuclear disarmament. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this proposal with the US and our NATO counterparts? I'm finishing up, because I can see I'm running out of time. D66 is for a world without nuclear weapons, like the Dutch mayors, like Obama and like the people behind this citizens' initiative. I hope that today we, Chamber and Cabinet, can take meaningful steps towards a world without nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u25	I am very pleased that D66 is now also on the side of GroenLinks, for example, and advocates a nuclear-free Netherlands. I assume that this will be included in the D66 electoral programme. Is D66 willing to work with GroenLinks to get URENCO closed? That's a place in the Netherlands where we can make weapons-grade uranium. Due to the existence of URENCO, Pakistan has acquired nuclear weapons by spreading knowledge. This is a nice first step of D66. Is it therefore prepared to take measures in the Netherlands to prevent further proliferation of nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u26	I give my answer in two parts. The first part concerns the departure of nuclear weapons from the Netherlands. This is a relatively old discussion, a discussion in which the SP has mixed up, in which former PvdA member Van Dam has explicitly mixed up, in which Mrs Van Tongeren's party has mixed up and in which my party has also mixed up. We'd love to get rid of those nuclear weapons. They are not only militaryly useless but, as Mr Van Bommel said, they are also reprehensible in view of the consequences of their use. Mrs Van Tongeren pretends to be surprised at my party's position. It seems to me that she should not be surprised. If she had been in previous debates on nuclear disarmament, she could have seen it consistently. Today's position is not a new one. When it comes to URENCO, I don't quite understand the link Mrs Van Tongeren is trying to make right now. The citizens' initiative is concerned with nuclear weapons and not with the civilian use of nuclear fuels and uranium. I do not agree with Mrs Van Tongeren on closing URENCO. However, I totally agree with her when it comes to better monitoring where the material eventually goes. Personally, I didn't think I was gonna be able to do that. I remember being hammered off by Deputy President Martin Bosma on the basis of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure when I was concerned about the permits issued by the Cabinet for the transport of enriched uranium to Russia. I do not agree with that, but that does not mean that URENCO should close. I think that Mrs Van Tongeren also recognizes that this a. has nothing to do with this initiative and b. is also a bit at odds with some of the things the plant is there for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u27	Then I look forward with enthusiasm to the inclusion in the D66 election programme of the theorem 'Netherlands nuclear weapons free'. Fantastic! I have not been able to find it, but if this has been the position for a very long time, that is very good. With regard to URENCO, I say that spokesperson defence and spokesperson energy are not always in contact. The Netherlands has a different position in the international world because it has the whole nuclear weapons cycle in its house. We are one of the few countries that can make weapons-grade uranium and have the knowledge to do so. Among other things, this knowledge has ended up in Pakistan. That is why Pakistan is now a country with nuclear weapons. If you are serious about nuclear weapons, you must also ensure that that knowledge cannot spread. You can say that you are careful to ensure that it is only applied in civil terms, but of course that is not possible. We've already shown that. We are also not sure where all nuclear fuels will go when they leave the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u28	What is your question, Mrs Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u29	Does my colleague from D66 see that you can't say you don't want nuclear weapons while you're quietly letting URENCO go?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u30	It's getting a little weird now. When I wanted to request debates on these weird permits and when I wanted to request debates on how these permits are controlled, I found the VVD on my side. I received unconditional support from spokesperson Fred Teeven. I was told by GroenLinks that we had to ride this in another debate somewhere and that we did not have to pay such prominent attention to this. This is really a bit of the world upside down, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u31	That is the only point on which Mr Sjoerdsma finds us on his side. I congratulate him on the fact that GroenLinks thinks that D66 has already been moved so that URENCO can be closed with the support of D66. D66, at least the spokesman here, Mr Sjoerdsma, says that there is nothing new about their position. A prominent D66 member, our former Secretary of Defense Joris Voorhoeve, said this morning at BNR that it was of course well meant, but not so well thought out. The reality, the reality, the international reality, with which the contribution of D66 is generally pervaded, shows a turnaround to the detriment of those who want to take steps in this direction. Has that got Mr Sjoerdsma thinking a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr Ten Broeke, of course, is not only talking about a D66 Member, but probably also about the former Minister for Education and Science, Mr Voorhoeve. Did he hear my plea? Did he listen to my plea at BNR himself and hear what I just said? Mr Ten Broeke now seems to be guided by the fact that it is only one-sided and looking away from geopolitical situations, but of course that is not the case. I shall repeat what I have just said for Mr Ten Broeke. It is unlikelyly important that we should introduce a national ban, because we do not want these nuclear weapons on our territory. We even want a Global Zero worldwide. I have also said that Mr Ten Broeke has probably also heard this: use this pressure to give a pendulum to this world, to use this modernisation later not only to do something here, but preferably also on the Russian side. Mr Ten Broeke must also agree with me that we should not go back to the situation of'mutually assured destruction'. We should not go back to the situation where we continue to bid against each other in order to increase the nuclear arsenals. I don't want that cold war back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u33	Neither do I, but unfortunately I have to say that in recent years international steps have been taken which lead to the wrong conclusion being drawn by a number of countries. I do not find all these considerations in your contribution. This is really limited to the Dutch situation: the JSF task, the national ban and even the modernisation. Whether Voorhoeve is a D66'er or a VVDer, in both ways he said something sensible when it comes to nuclear disarmament. That is what I hope to hear from Mr Sjoerdsma. Does he agree with me that all the contributions we have seen, which insisted on one-sidedness, one-sided steps, work counter-productively in this world and in this geopolitical situation, and that we therefore do not need them at all if we really want to reduce the arsenals? I've already explained the difference between Obama and Bush.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u34	No, I do not agree with Mr Ten Broeke. Let me mention a few examples from the past and a relatively contemporary example of the effect that I know Mr Ten Broeke and I differ. In the past, not only in the distant past, nuclear weapons have been unilaterally removed in countries such as Greece, Canada and Great Britain without any demand from Russia or from other nuclear weapons states. Did that cause any trouble there? The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u35	Does that make up to less...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u36	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm just finishing up my answer. Take Iran now. You could basically say that country disarms unilaterally. It is, of course, a bit charged, but it is one-sided, because it is not expected of other countries to distance themselves from equipment with which they can arm or bombs to destroy arsenals. Does Mr Ten Broeke therefore say that this is a wrong one-sided step? I'd say no, that's profit. It is a great gain for this world if countries are sometimes willing to unilaterally renounce their arsenal, especially if they are countries with a questionable reputation when it comes to how they deal with weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u37	The first three examples mentioned by Mr Sjoerdsma, from Greece to Canada, have led to more nuclear weapons. That is the international reality I was just referring to when I mentioned the numbers and the differences between what happened under Bush and what happened under Obama since 2009. When it comes to Iran, it is indeed a one-sided step, but the nuclear weapon in Iran is only abandoned. We'll see it again in ten to fifteen years. Then we have a rich Iran that can meanwhile use North Korea as a practice ground for ICBMs and smart little warheads that they are already supporting. I'll give Mr. Sjoerdsma the link later. Those messages are already there. It has only led to greater insecurity, Mr Sjoerdsma. You have no eye for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u38	Of course, Mr Ten Broeke and I totally disagree on this. I ask him to respond to what I just said: use this modernisation with the US and with the alliance as a means of seducing Russia to take another step to break that deadlock. I ask Mr Ten Broeke why he is not proposing this. He is talking about the Security Council, which is of course very nice, but we still have to see if we can get in and b. what we can do there. I hope that we can do something about it, but we can do something about it ourselves, with this minister doing something about it during this cabinet period. And I hope for the support of Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u39	If you support the modernisation of nuclear weapons, we can talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr. Chairman. On Christmas Day 2014, President Putin presented his new military doctrine. The doctrine states that Russia may not only use nuclear weapons in response to a nuclear attack by others, but also "in the event of aggression against the Russian Federation with the use of conventional weapons." That's a step the wrong way. Yesterday, we Presidential candidate Trump heard his views on foreign policy and that did not cheer me up, so to speak. Just at times like this, when it's hard to disarm, to relax, it's important that organisations like PAX, the Red Cross and the ASN Bank, plus those 45,000 people who signed the petition, make themselves heard. Because it is precisely in times like this that steps must be taken to prevent worse and to go back in the right direction. In recent years, we have talked a few times about non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. There were always three tracks on which the Chamber said to the cabinet: do more. The first was: stop this strange secrecy about nuclear weapons in the Netherlands. Mr Sjoerdsma and I wrote an opinion paper on this a year or two ago. The Chamber asked and Koenders took steps, so he told us in November. There have been talks with the Germans and the Americans in NATO. How's that going? Have any new steps been taken? When does he expect it to be time for conclusions? As far as I am concerned, that is at least before the end of this cabinet period. The second track concerned the questions raised about the modernisation of American nuclear weapons, led by Mr Knops, who even went to Washington. What is known about that? We read in the German press that it is already happening. When will it be in the Netherlands? The third track was on the start of discussions on an international treaty banning nuclear weapons. This is not a new idea, but a task assigned to the Member States by Article 6 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Last week we received a petition from the Dutch Association for Health and Peace (NVMP), in which we were advised to focus on this, to take steps and to make it happen. PAX is actually asking for a fourth track, namely a national ban. That sounds logical and extremely sympathetic, but it is the question of how we should interpret this. Are we really talking about a statutory ban in our own legislation? Do other countries know of such a thing? PAX states that 115 countries have such a ban, but if you look at the documentation a little more closely, then it is actually about a number of nuclear-free regions. I know that Mongolia is the only country that has declared itself truly nuclear-free as a country. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he knows any other examples. Another interpretation, the interpretation that Mr Sjoerdsma gives it, I think is more useful. It is not a question of drawing up legislation for ourselves, for our own sake, as a symbol. It is better to consider whether the moment of replacement of these things, if they were already lying here, could not be used as a crowbar or, as Mr Sjoerdsma says, to give it a pendulum. I'd like to ask the Minister if he can see the possibility. After all, it is quite a special figure to go to the big boys, the United States and Russia, as only NATO, and to make a suggestion to break the deadlock of recent years. Last year we were with a few colleagues at the NPT Review Conference. Then there were two old-timers from the disarmament circuit, an American and a Russian. They also said that it is now essential to take steps. The PvdA Group wholeheartedly supports this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u41	What is the main objection of the PvdA if the Netherlands has a national law stating that we do not want nuclear weapons in the Netherlands, as proposed by the initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u42	The biggest objection is that nothing changes in reality. I'm interested in real steps. I don't find it that interesting to pass a law without something changing in reality. You can talk to the NATO allies and you can make suggestions to break the deadlock between the United States and Russia. If we can play a role in this from our own point of view, that would of course be fantastic. One without the other, however, I do not find very useful. It's nice, but it's not very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u43	Why not both? I don't see why you should rule out one. A bill to get nuclear weapons out of the Netherlands only supports the position to talk to other countries: we told the United Nations in 1946 to stop using nuclear weapons; we are in the process of settling it in your own country and calling you to do the same in your countries. I don't see the contradiction. Would the PvdA be against that, or would the PvdA support the proposal if both were done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mrs Van Tongeren pretends it can be two parallel processes. Drawing up and adopting a law, when you actually know that it hasn't been settled at all, is of course a bit weird. If we finally manage to get all the nuclear weapons out of Europe, that would be fantastic. Europe would become a nuclear-free region. I would be very much in favour of that, and I can reassure Mrs Van Tongeren: that was already in my party's electoral programme. However, the order makes sense. You have to box it for each other and then capture it. The other way around it sounds interesting, but I don't think it contributes that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u45	It is not quite clear to me where the Labour Party stands today. A few years ago, the position of the Labour Party was that the Americans should be asked to remove the American nuclear weapons from Dutch territory. Now it seems that Mr Servaes is asking the Minister what scope he sees for making such a request. Is the position of the Labour Party still that the Netherlands should simply ask, or has it taken a different view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u46	The position of the Labour Party is extremely consistent in this regard. That is why Mr Van Bommel has just repeated something we have already said. I don't understand exactly where the confusion is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u47	I did not hear Mr Servaes unequivocally ask the Minister to contact the Americans to have nuclear weapons removed from Dutch territory. I didn't hear him say that today. Maybe he means that and he can say that in response to this interruption. Then he gave more clarity than he had suspected in his own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u48	I even said in the previous interruption that the PvdA would like nuclear weapons to leave Europe. As Mr Van Bommel knows, the Netherlands is in Europe, so there can be no misunderstanding about that. Interestingly, Mr Van Bommel's suggestion is that the allies should be contacted to realize this. That is precisely where the difference lies with the initiative that is before us today, because it says that we agree that there are no more nuclear weapons and then hope that the rest of the world will adapt to it. The line set out by Mr Van Bommel is entirely in line with my strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u49	I had another question about the nuclear weapons task itself. It concerns a motion by Mr Van Dijk of the SP stating that the successor to the F-16, the JSF, should not have a nuclear weapon task. The PvdA's signature is under the motion. Recently, however, I was told that another spokesperson of the PvdA had said that there is a difference between the motion and the practice. So she'd still be in charge of the nuclear weapons task. What is the position of the PvdA now? Is she still behind the motion, or has something changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u50	It is clear that there is a practice. We still support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u51	I hear Mr Ten Broeke whispering in my ear that both are true. So there would indeed be two PvdA positions. I would therefore like to hear Mr Servaes explain in a little more detail that, despite the statements made by another spokesperson, he and his party are still fully and 100% in favour of the motion that the JSF should not be assigned nuclear weapons tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u52	If I do Mr Sjoerdsma a favor, I repeat once again loud and clear that we did not only give that support in 2013, but that we do so today with the entire PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u54	That is much clearer than Mr Servaes' contribution. I was wondering where the PvdA was after that. It has now become clear that the Labour Party still stands for unilateral disarmament. That is what it comes down to if you do not modernise those American tactical weapons. Is it true that the PvdA wants the Netherlands to say goodbye to its nuclear weapons mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u55	I joined what my colleague Sjoerdsma said before me. Of course we want nuclear weapons from Europe. I am not going to quote from the collected work of former Minister Timmermans; I think we have had that sort of thing. We agree that they are extremely useless, but if you are going to talk about it with allies, try to use it as a crowbar to break the deadlock at international level. That is my message, but I think that is also the message of a number of other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u56	Now it's getting a little shady again, because he's now saying, "Try to talk to the Americans about it." That is different from a very clear position by the Labour Party and the mandate to the Cabinet to ask the Americans very urgently................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Where exactly is the Labour Party? Is that the assignment to the cabinet or is the order "go talk again"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u57	Now Mr Voordewind is making it a little more specific, because it is now about modernisation. The Chamber has jointly... I believe that you had also joined; oh, you were not part of it. In any case, under the leadership of the CDA, the Omtzigt motion, and then on the initiative of Mr Knops, we have indeed sent the message in Washington that we do not see this modernisation. I must say that I personally feel a little uncomfortable with the idea that those weapons would be flown in and out, without us knowing about it. That's not nothing. My group is still, absolutely, behind the message that Mr Knops gave at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch nuclear weapons policy is aimed at promoting disarmament and non-proliferation with the ultimate aim of creating a world without nuclear weapons, as we can read in the government's documents. It sounds nice, but of course it is the question of how realistic that is. Nuclear weapons states cannot be forced to disarm. There are already many countries which possess, or probably possess, nuclear weapons and which do not show any willingness to renounce them. In the past, only South Africa, Ukraine and Kazakhstan have voluntarily abolished their nuclear arsenals. However, there are certain countries, mostly not our friends, in unstable zones that could potentially develop nuclear weapons if they think that is necessary. The danger of the actual deployment of nuclear weapons, perhaps also against the Netherlands, will certainly not be reduced in the future. But there is a chance that that danger will increase. Nuclear weapons from the Netherlands do not change that reality. The use of nuclear weapons by other countries can only be prevented by owning nuclear weapons and the credibility that they will actually be used against an attacker in an ultimate case. This has worked this way for the past 70 years, since the outbreak of the Cold War, and it remains so for the time being. For the Netherlands, the possession of nuclear weapons means, of course, we do not own them, but in a sense perhaps, because they appear to be present in our country, which is part of NATO. In this way, we also have nuclear weapons in some sense. The Netherlands does not have sufficient power to effectively defend itself against a nuclear-weapon country. The Netherlands does not even have sufficient power against a number of countries which have no nuclear weapons at all. That's why we're in NATO. As far as PVV is concerned, it must remain so. The cabinet has indicated that a unilateral Dutch ban on the use, possession, development, production, financing, deployment and transfer of nuclear weapons would be contrary to NATO principles and to the obligations of the Netherlands within NATO. The PVV wholeheartedly agrees with that. As long as we want to see our safety guaranteed under the nuclear umbrella, we must be allegiant to what is necessary for this. This means, as far as PVV is concerned, that the Netherlands must simply accept the presence of certain nuclear weapons of ally USA. There are, of course, NATO countries that do not. I have to say that I think that freerider behavior is intended for domestic consumption. The freeriders' behaviour of these countries is only possible because they can hide under the nuclear umbrella of others. But nuclear reality doesn't change that freerider behavior. It is freerider behavior that is now being proposed by this initiative. The PVV is therefore heartily opposed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr. Chairman. I also congratulate the initiators PAX and Red Cross on the citizens' initiative. I know that Mrs van Velzen has had no trouble making the argument, but it is always a job to collect the necessary signatures. It is good to involve citizens in political decision-making in this way. I do not recall that a Dutch cabinet has previously spoken so publicly and specifically about the Dutch nuclear weapon task, even to the Volkel location. That is a point of profit for the initiators: openness about the nuclear weapons task is fine. But I do ask the Cabinet whether it is wise to make the location very specific, especially in the light of the people who want wrong things with it. Think of terrorists or maybe the Russians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u60	This is getting a very special turn of events. For Mr Voordewind is now pointing out all kinds of security risks of greater transparency, which can be read everywhere. Some colleagues almost stumble upon the words they have to choose on this issue. Aren't you asking the wrong question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u61	My group, too, has called on the cabinet to open up and recognise that the Netherlands has a nuclear weapons mission. Then you can speak openly about it and the Chamber can table motions on it. So we can talk about modernisation. But that is different from when you specifically indicate exactly where these nuclear weapons are in the Netherlands and how many there are. I would like clarification from the cabinet on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u62	Most of the time, those weapons are where there are planes. We still have two air bases left. So there is a 50% chance that Mr Voordewind is right. Then why is Mr Voordewind asking this? This is almost an open shot, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u63	We do have two locations when it comes to the F-16s. I am simply asking the Minister whether it is wise to mention this explicitly in this letter. I think it's the first time it's been reported so explicitly in a letter. I've read letters before and I haven't seen this before. I commend the cabinet when it comes to transparency about the nuclear weapons task, but I wonder whether it is wise to mention the location and the exact number of aircraft. The Christian Union is strongly in favour of a world without nuclear weapons and is therefore opposed in principle to weapons of mass destruction. For this reason, as a coalition party in the past, we have also assumed our responsibility and made our efforts to ban cluster munitions. We have also done this together with former SP colleague Van Velzen. At such times, courage is needed, because more than cluster munitions, nuclear weapons make no distinction between a legitimate goal of war and civilian targets. This goes against all the principles of international humanitarian war law, but also against the spirit of, for example, international obligations to combat crimes against humanity and genocide. The initiators are now presenting us with the political question of rejecting this nuclear weapon task. In fact, the Minister states in so many words that the timing for this may not be as good. But the same minister said last year, with a wink at the Cold War, that it is precisely in difficult times that we must keep the means of communication open and continue disarmament. So my question to this Minister is: how is the cabinet going to play a leading role in the disarmament debate? What concrete initiatives can we expect from this Minister? The cabinet writes that some NATO alliance members in Europe are unabated by the presence of NATO's nuclear weapons, because of the Russian threat. Is the Minister prepared to examine within NATO what possible alternative security guarantees could be developed, which could possibly eliminate the need for these nuclear weapons in Europe? With the support of the Christian Union, the Chamber adopted a motion calling on the government not to make the JSF fit for nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, this motion has been rejected by the cabinet, arguing that this would not be in line with the NATO agreements. How, then, does the Minister explain that the US has removed their nuclear weapons from other NATO countries, including England, Iceland, Greece and Canada? I understand that American nuclear weapons have even been withdrawn from a base in Germany. Shows it's not an impenetrable road. Is the Minister prepared to map out the possibilities for this? This seems to my group to be in line with NATO, where the importance of a nuclear-free world was mentioned during the Lisbon Summit in 2010. The Christian Union expects this minister to take a proactive stance in international fora, including the OEWG, Open-ended Working Group, on the worldwide removal of nuclear weapons, in line with the previously adopted Sjoerdsma motion. Is the Minister still fully prepared to do so? Is he prepared to discuss with the Americans and NATO a phase-out of the nuclear arms mission of the Netherlands? I'd like to hear his answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. Nuclear weapons are terrible weapons. They are weapons of mass destruction that make no distinction between military and civilian targets. The use of money, which has already been mentioned by Mrs van Velzen, has catastrophic humanitarian consequences, often generation after generation. My group therefore thanks the initiators, PAX, the Red Cross and the ASN Bank, for their initiative to put this on the agenda. They collected 45,000 signatures in order to ban nuclear weapons in the Netherlands. This is an issue that it absolutely deserves to be discussed here. It happens all the time. We have talked about this a number of times as a Chamber. That also indicates how important the subject is. After the fall of the Wall, there was hope for a Global Zero. Our group, like all the political groups in this Parliament, has also wholeheartedly supported the wish for a nuclear-free world. The world is just better off without nuclear weapons. Under President Obama there seemed to be a "wind of change" blowing in the US. Obama called nuclear weapons the most dangerous legacy of the Cold War and openly committed to nuclear disarmament. That was in Prague in 2009. In the meantime, geopolitics is back, with a thump even. The Ukrainian crisis marked the resurrection of Russia. Putin annexed Crimea and reserves the right to place nuclear weapons there. That's worrying. In fact, Putin openly indicated his willingness to deploy nuclear weapons. I quote: "We were ready to do so. The area is our territory, there are Russians alive and they were in danger. We can't leave them alone." This fits within the expanded Russian doctrine that Russia will use nuclear weapons not only in response to nuclear attacks, but also in the case of aggression against the Russian Federation using conventional weapons. This also explains why a third of the Russian defence budget is now being spent on the nuclear arsenal. The Russians' efforts are aimed at parity with the US. It has been said before: our group opposed the modernisation of the American tactical B61 nuclear weapons a few years ago. The immense amount spent on it could have been better spent on our part. I didn't go to the US specifically for that, but I was there anyway, and then I delivered the letter from the Chamber with Mrs Eijsink; Mr Servaes said that a moment ago. That was not so much a principled position on a ban on nuclear weapons in the Netherlands as it was because if you invest so much money in the modernisation of these weapons, many of which are already too many, that weapons no longer have any added value in military terms; I understood that I no longer have to quote Timmermans, because otherwise it would become a biology lesson. However, the American decision to modernise is now a fact. As Elmar Hellendoorn, recently promoted to Dutch nuclear policy, said in an interview in the Volkskrant: "We must open our eyes to the world and not think of: we have had it so well for 25 years. We're still in that reflex. That era of security without us having to take any risks for it is over. And that is not a beautiful reality." Today's reality is that Russian bombers are flying nuclear weapons on board the North Sea and that Russia is openly threatening to deploy these weapons. The reality is also that the power of the West is shrinking and proliferation is increasing. Rogue North Korea has nuclear weapons. Iran has a nuclear program, the atomic deal is fragile and at its best able to slow down the nuclear ambitions of the ayatollahs. The theater is therefore much clearer and more dangerous than at the time of the Cold War. How should we deal with the threat of nuclear weapons if other countries have them and we no longer have them? The CDA is in favour of disarmament, but for that very reason it is not in favour of unilateral disarmament. Hopefully, in times of rising tension, there will be a moment when a breakthrough is possible in order to reach mutual agreements. The Netherlands is a member of NATO and this is not without obligation. The strategic concept adopted in Lisbon in 2010 is very clear: nuclear weapons are part of the alliance as long as there are nuclear weapons in this world. According to the government, there is even no willingness within NATO to engage in a discussion on the disclosure of the total numbers of non-strategic nuclear weapons in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u65	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u66	No, but I see Mr Servaes at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u67	I see him, too, but I suggest you finish first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u68	However, our group considers it important to continue to argue for greater transparency. At that very point, there may be a battle in the Netherlands. Last year, a motion was adopted by my hand to reach agreements on more openness about nuclear weapons, such as those in the Netherlands. That is also important because nuclear weapons can be dangerous in peacetime. There's a long list of accidents and near-accidents. The initiators of the citizens' initiative also point this out. I congratulate the Minister for his commitment to this so far. My question is whether he can tell us what the current state of affairs is. What has been achieved by all his efforts in this area, including in consultation with the allies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u69	I congratulated Mr Knops on his trip to Washington, but I understand that he was already there and then thought: let me also visit Congress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u70	We remain Dutch; we combine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u71	That's good in itself. He is now acting as if it was only about modernisation and he was there and then thought: let me remind them that they should spend their money differently. I took that letter again. It refers to the motion by his party colleague, Mr Omtzigt, which calls for the'removal of tactical nuclear weapons from Europe'. That's not a lie. That is why I ask Mr Knops whether he still supports this objective. He says that the Americans are better able to spend their money, but does the position still stand that these weapons should eventually be removed from Europe, where there is a one-on-one link to that modernisation programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u72	That position stands. Mr Servaes is right: it was not only about costs, but also about the fact that if you want to take steps towards disarmament, you will have to take them as NATO. They're not our weapons; they're American weapons. In the debate at the time, I said that, on the basis of the need for a nuclear umbrella as long as there are nuclear weapons, there are much better alternatives and you can do so in a better way than by modernising those tactical nuclear weapons. If you don't have to modernise them, they can leave too. That was also the reasoning. That is therefore perfectly clear. However, that is different from the citizens' initiative's proposal to ban it. That's where the distinction is. That was just the subject of the debate with Mr Servaes. Those are two different things. It is true that the motion tabled at the time by Mr Omtzigt was aimed at taking steps to disarm, which was referred to in the letter. However, I would like to say the following: times have changed. Looking at what Russia has been doing lately, it would be extremely unwise at the moment to take these steps unilaterally. I see Mr Ten Broeke applauding. I fully acknowledge that. Even Obama acknowledged it, because nothing of all his wishes for nuclear disarmament ended up. In part, this can also be explained by these changing geopolitical relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u73	We really need to be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u74	A long answer indeed, but it is still not clear to me. It has to be one or the other. Does the CDA hold on to the rather courageous position of then to join the parties that advocate the removal of arms from Europe because they are no longer useful? I remember very fierce interruptions by Mr Knops to Minister Timmermans who was accused of spinning. Will Mr Knops remain in that fierce position, or will he say: for the past two years, the world has changed again, so the CDA is going back to the position she turned on about five or six years ago. It is either one or the other, but it is useful for the debate and for the relations in the Chamber that we know which CDA we are talking to in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u75	That's a little silly from Mr Servaes. If a party is running, it is the Labour Party that has just shown itself to be interrupting Mr Sjoerdsma. She's turning in three weeks. Mr Servaes may not be able to do anything about it, but he is. I would like to answer that question: no, we have not turned. Yeah, we're still in favour of removing those tactical nuclear weapons. However, I am not in favour of doing it unilaterally through a Dutch ban on nuclear weapons, as proposed by the citizens' initiative. This is about how NATO handles this. And yes, we want those nuclear weapons gone. Yes, we want those nuclear weapons out of the world. But it would be very unwise at this time to scale down unilaterally while the Russians are doing nothing. The process initiated by the Foreign Minister should therefore be aimed at doing so on both sides. My fervor towards Mr Timmermans at the time was that he had very different positions in the Chamber than when he was sitting in the Minister's chair. That's what I talked to him about; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u76	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u77	The conclusion is therefore that if the Omtzig motion were to be retabled today, you would still support the modernisation of nuclear weapons in Europe. Let us note that the replacement of nuclear weapons has not yet taken place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u78	Yeah, and I'll tell you why again. That is because we are not saying that we no longer have nuclear weapons within NATO, but that the military necessity of the tactical nuclear weapons in the entire arsenal that the Americans already have has has no military added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u79	Okay, that makes it a little clearer and actually more positive. Let us now become concrete. This is a hypothetical case, about modernisation. Suppose we ask the Minister to take advantage of this modernisation in order to break through this global nuclear disarmament that is so stagnated and in an impasse a little bit with a concrete proposal. I did, and so did my colleague Servaes. We'd like to get rid of those tactical weapons. For example, Russia has just stationed weapons of the calibre of Iskander. Then we also want something from Russia back. Is that something the CDA is sympathetic to? And is that a call the CDA could support?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u80	That is the kind of call for two-sided disarmament that we can only support. However, that is not the case at the moment; Mr Sjoerdsma must also be honest about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u81	This is not the case in the citizens' initiative, but, if you think about it, it is, of course, part of the elaboration of the citizens' initiative. It would be a great pleasure for me today to take concrete steps to reach the Global Zero, global disarmament, as a Chamber and Cabinet. That is what I said in my speech. So, of course, it is ahead of us in that respect. In that respect, I am also curious whether Mr Knops could support this today. Because then perhaps we will go towards a majority and we can send Minister Koenders as far as he doesn't want to, because perhaps he is on the road with an assignment that might lead to something beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u82	I understand the question, but Mr Sjoerdsma knows as well as I do that today's debate and its outcome will not affect that balance, which is to reduce nuclear weapons on both sides. I believe that we should stand by and do not need proposals that will make us all feel good and that we are doing well. The point is that we can take real steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u83	But that's exactly what this is, so I don't quite understand Mr Knops' attitude. This isn't about a proposal that makes me feel good. This is not a symbolic measure. This is about the concrete step. There are nuclear weapons in the Netherlands. We would like to get rid of that, and we would also like to achieve something with it, namely to break the deadlock. There is a proposal for this from a part of the Chamber. How does Mr Knops feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u84	I am in favour of any message that the Chamber sends the Foreign Minister to speak at the appropriate level within NATO in favour of reducing the number of nuclear weapons. That is a matter for NATO. We are a member of NATO; that is not a non-committal one. At the same time, it is an appeal to, among other things, Russia. We know that in the short term this is not very much to be expected. I have read a number of quotes on this subject. That is a really different situation than it was three years ago, when there was hope that we could also take steps on that side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u85	The CDA rightly points to the nuclear reality and the danger posed by Russia. What if Russia wants to modernise? That's what's gonna happen. The nuclear arsenal is being modernised. At the same time we hear the CDA say that the West should not do so. That shouldn't be modernised. What exactly is the strategy of the CDA? It's a little unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u86	That's a good question; another good question. I have said the following about the B61, for example. If you already have so much of those weapons and then you are going to invest nearly a billion dollars in replacing those weapons, when you could also spend that money in another way, for example on defence and conventional deterrents, we have not yet talked about this, but that also affects us here, of course, then the investment in tactical nuclear weapons is no longer necessary. Remember that we zoom in here with a straw on a very small part of the total arsenal. Both superpowers have very different nuclear weapons at their disposal, for example aboard submarines, which can destroy the world many times. The added value of investing in these weapons is therefore limited. This is not related to the fact that these weapons also have different characteristics. There have been debates on this before. These weapons are being modernised, allowing them to be deployed more precisely. Some say that it reduces the threshold to use them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u87	Nevertheless, it remains true that the Russians are modernising and that the CDA indicates that the West should not do so. This creates a certain imbalance which, in my view, does not improve the security of the NATO alliance. What is the CDA's view on NATO's nuclear strategy, especially with regard to the modernisation of the Russians and the CDA's desire not to do so in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u88	I shall be very specific: in the context of the replacement and modernisation of the B61, we said that the amount spent on it could have been spent in a very different way. We have not said that there is no need to modernise anywhere. The Americans can decide for themselves; they are their weapons. We have nothing to say about that. We delivered that letter there. They thanked you for receiving that letter, but they're gonna do it anyway. With regard to the nuclear task, I refer to the NATO Treaty in which we agreed on nuclear weapons. We are not a freerider within NATO, but a full member. Whether we should carry out this task in practice is another chapter. If we were to advocate a national ban on nuclear weapons and at the same time take advantage of that nuclear umbrella, there would be an imbalance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u89	I hear the CDA say that nuclear weapons must leave the world and the European Union. However, we also know the CDA as a very strong supporter of more nuclear power plants. Of course, there's tension in that. I asked the question earlier, but I would now like to receive an answer from the CDA. How does the CDA view URENCO, which disseminates knowledge with which nuclear weapons are made? It also speculates and acts in fissile and reprocessed fuel. There is enormous trade and speculation with Russia, including from URENCO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u90	I think we're just talking about nuclear weapons and NATO. For me, it is a new fact that the European Union would also pursue a nuclear weapon policy. I think URENCO is a very different chapter. We are not talking about the fundamental debate on nuclear energy. That is not what this debate is about. This debate is about banning nuclear weapons. The fact that there are risks to nuclear energy is a whole different chapter. I suggest that Mrs Van Tongeren does not use this debate for that, because, with all due respect, this debate is really not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u91	I think this might be a funny misconception among defense spokesmen. You can't make nuclear weapons without raw materials. There are only a few countries in the world that can do that, including the Netherlands. We control this technique in URENCO, among other things. You cannot say that you want to get rid of nuclear weapons, but have no problems with the method, knowledge and raw materials to make them, and with the reprocessing process and the trade in fuel rods that have also been reprocessed. Again, if you seriously believe that you should not modernise nuclear weapons in the Netherlands and in NATO, should you not even look at where the raw materials for this modernisation come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u92	I am repeating myself when I say that this debate is not about this. The fact that this is happening in the Netherlands does not mean that it is intended for arms only. I don't understand the bridge Mrs. Van Tongeren is referring to. If you do understand, Mr. President, I'd be happy to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u93	I think that the CDA is trying to get away very easily from the reality that it must now face itself. Mr Knops says that he was almost by accident in Washington and then and passerby delivered that little cat bell. The motion tabled by Mr Omtzigt, which was supported by many parties in the Chamber, was not supported by mine; it is clear that there is nothing on the B61. It says "calls on the government to formulate the removal of European tactical nuclear weapons as a hard target." There's nothing in there about limitations. The question is therefore whether Mr Knops still supports this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u94	First let me clear up a misunderstanding about that "by chance." I was in Washington on a NATO trip. Since I was there, I delivered that letter there. I really didn't go to Washington to post a letter there, because I might as well have put it here in the mailbox. In that sense, it was a coincidence that this coincided. Mr Ten Broeke also talked about easy diving. Yes, Mr Ten Broeke, those tactical nuclear weapons are the B61s. There aren't many more species. Well, we did only talk about the B61.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u95	First of all, that's not right. Mr Knops knows that very well. Secondly, this motion is not about that. In this motion we are talking very clearly about a unilateral step. The question is therefore whether Mr Knops would still be willing to take charge of that motion today and whether he would still be willing to accept that there might not be any military use. Mr Knops himself has already indicated that there is indeed modernisation, including on the Russian side, for example. Think of the Iskandar missiles that are now in Kaliningrad. I can go on in that respect, but Mr Knops has already said enough about this in his speech. I'm not cheering about it. On the contrary, I hate that it goes that way. But the question is whether the contribution made by the CDA two years ago was actually a contribution. If I compare it with the way in which Mr Knops is dealing with this debate today, I would ask: is he prepared to sign this motion again today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr Ten Broeke can already sit down to table that motion, I would say. Then he'll see how we deal with it. Look, this is all very interesting. I understand Mr Ten Broeke, because this was an issue at the time. Mr Ten Broeke was very dissatisfied with the fact that we chose that line and wondered whether it was still necessary to replace those weapons. I have defended that plea at all times, but it is now a fact. They're American weapons. As long as NATO does not say 'we want to get rid of it', we cannot prevent it. Unless we do what Mr. Sjoerdsma says and a fence... they can't go in at Schiphol Airport when they get there when they're modernised, but that's just the question. If we did, we'd be on Sjoerdsma's line. We have not supported this before. I'm not gonna do that today. And as far as modernisation is concerned, even without modernisation, we have had enough of this stuff, so even if it is not modernised, the danger of commitment and threat remains on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. First of all, we thank the initiators of the citizens' initiative Sign Against Nuclear Weapons for their involvement, but we immediately note that they have written a life-threatening proposal. The introduction of a national ban on nuclear weapons is the least sensible thing the Netherlands could do. On the contrary, the cabinet must abandon the objective of dismantling all nuclear weapons and removing all tactical nuclear weapons from Europe. Just let these powerful weapons stand, especially in the interests of our security. Idealistic, silly policy of the cabinet is certainly not something we can afford at this time in history. This also undermines NATO's nuclear strategy. The end of the deployment of US nuclear weapons on European territory would make Europe defenceless against the Russian threat. The naive Minister Koenders stresses the importance of nuclear disarmament within NATO, but he is almost alone in it. That's what geopolitical advisor Dr. Hellendoorn of Utrecht University, who has been quoted earlier today. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet is isolating itself with this Woodstock policy and that is damaging to the Netherlands. The real questions we have to ask today are the following. What do we do if the Americans decide to withdraw their own weapons from Europe? What happens if we can't hide under the American nuclear umbrella anymore? That's exactly what we need to talk about. The House of Representatives previously adopted a motion stating that the F-35 should not be assigned a nuclear task. That is a completely messed-up motion, as far as my group is concerned. We want the Dutch JSFs simply to be able to carry out a nuclear weapon task within NATO obligations. We are also tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u98	And Minister Koenders is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u99	When Mr Van Klaveren was still in the PVV, that party already advocated leaving the European Union and shortly later also for exiting the United Nations. I don't think they've discovered the Benelux yet, but we probably have to get out of it. What about the Non-Proliferation Treaty? Does Mr Van Klaveren think we should get rid of that too? Should the Netherlands withdraw its signature underneath?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u100	Perhaps Mr Van Bommel has missed this in recent years, but I am no longer part of the PVV Group. We have our own party, called VNL, for the Netherlands. Thank you for giving me the space to talk about that. The Non-Proliferation Treaty stands. VNL has never said that we want to leave the Benelux. We have never said that we want to get rid of the non-proliferation treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mr Van Klaveren says: we must not strive for disarmament. But that is at the heart of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. If you distance yourself from the content, you might as well get your signature out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u102	Then you will have to read the non-proliferation treaty again. Today we are talking about unilateral disarmament. If world peace breaks out tomorrow and everyone can sing very nicely, then so would we, but that is not the case. Unfortunately, there is a nuclear reality. That reality is that your former allies in Russia still have a threatening effect on the West, including the Netherlands. It seems to us very unwise and even foolish to disarm unilaterally. Until then, we need to modernise in order not to lose that arms race.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr. Chairman. The last words of the spokesperson for the citizens' initiative were: a nuclear weapons ban needs political courage; who dares? DENK can be added to the list, because DENK is for a nuclear-free world. But since the 1970 treaty, we've spent 46 years trying to reach it together. For 46 years of negotiation, bluffing and talking, but the goal of zero nuclear weapons comes but not in sight. Without an obligation, it just doesn't go hard enough. DENK is therefore in favour of a national ban on nuclear weapons. If the international players do not come out, we should set a good example, just like 115 other countries that have already done so. Nuclear weapons do inhumane damage to nature and to many generations of people, and not only through war. There have been 32 nuclear accidents since 1950. 50 warheads went missing in the Cold War. Many test areas have been contaminated for generations. This is terrifying. What is the situation with regard to the safety risks in the Netherlands? How much does it cost to secure and house nuclear weapons on our territory? Can the Minister give a clear answer to this? According to DENK, American nuclear weapons do not belong in the Netherlands, because the Netherlands is not an annex of the American army. At the moment, the Netherlands is being used as a pawn in the nuclear chess game between America and Russia. The people in the country don't understand it anymore. A large majority in our country does not want nuclear warheads on our territory, but this government does not dare to make a fist. Does the White House decide what happens on our territory? Why doesn't the government just send the nuclear weapons back? Greece and the United Kingdom did, didn't they? We're going over our own territory here, aren't we? Finally. A nuclear-free world begins with ourselves: no shelter and tax money for weapons of mass destruction. Minister, dare to listen to the people. Dare to be independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u104	I hear a strong plea to support PAX's proposal. Does DENK go further in that plea? Are you also in favour of the removal of nuclear weapons from Turkey, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u105	It's very special. When I stand here, people seem to see Turkey in the background. Why do you ask this every time? Why do I, as a Dutch MP, have to constantly answer questions about Turkey? You have in your group a Member of Parliament, Mrs Karabulut, originally from Turkey...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u106	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u107	Ask her what she thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u108	Listen: according to Article 50 of the Constitution, MPs represent all Dutch. Let's just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u109	My question is aimed at nuclear disarmament in Europe. I think it makes sense to talk not only about the Netherlands, but also about an ally in NATO who also has nuclear weapons. I repeat my question: does Mr Öztürk believe that nuclear weapons should also be removed from other countries in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u110	My first sentence was and I repeat: DENK is for a nuclear-free world. All the countries in the world should stop nuclear weapons, including the one Mr Van Bommel just mentioned. All weapons, all nuclear weapons out of the world. Is that clear enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-4.u111	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
