ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u1	I call Mrs Kooiman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The National Rescue Fleet of the Dutch Rescue Brigade is doing extremely good and important work for humans and animals. For example, the National Rescue Fleet is there when there are calamities, for example in flood disasters. Over the last few weeks, we have all seen the need for the National Rescue Fleet. However, the National Rescue Fleet is also present at many sporting events. I am thinking of Sail, but I am also thinking of Sinterklaas's entry; thanks to the National Rescue Fleet it is safe. The National Rescue Fleet consists of 90 boats and 1,000 specially trained volunteers. If there's a flood somewhere, they'll be there in an hour. However, the National Rescue Fleet itself is now in severe weather. For three years there has been financial uncertainty. There's a bickering about who pays what and the National Rescue Fleet is the victim of this. The Minister says that the 25 security regions are financially responsible for this, but they say: Minister, we have no money. The VVD and the SP felt that this could no longer be done, and that is why we tabled a motion in which we asked the Minister to come up with a solution by the end of May. Why end of May? Because otherwise the National Rescue Fleet would have to take financial measures. It is now June and the National Rescue Fleet is still in uncertainty. I don't get it. Our motion was clear, I think. The solution should have been there by now. What's the plan? How does this minister save the National Rescue Fleet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Kooiman, who has put this issue on the agenda. Maybe it's good to take a look at history. In 2010 it was agreed with the security regions that there would be a transitional period of five years, from 2010 to 2015. In this, the security regions would assume their responsibilities towards the National Rescue Fleet. That's what the Security Regions Act prescribes. It requires the security regions to take adequate measures to combat flooding. Then, at the end of that period, in my term as Minister, it was discussed that in those five years too little progress had been made between the Rescue Brigade on the one hand and the security regions on the other, to see if the Rescue Brigade could continue to play a role in this. I said: then I will extend the subsidy from the department for one more year, until 2016, but then there really must be those agreements. The last time this issue was discussed, I indicated that it looked like this would be very difficult. There was rightly a motion at the time. It puts the responsibility where it should be, namely in the security regions. I have had a number of very intense discussions with the security regions and the Rescue Brigade, partly on the basis of that motion. I would like to thank the Chamber very much for that, because that motion was a support in the back that you could really use in that kind of conversation. The result is that the Executive Board of the Security Council has informed me that, together with the Rescue Brigade, it will try to investigate before 1 January 2017 how to deploy the Rescue Brigade for that National Rescue Fleet. In order to facilitate this, I have been prepared to undertake, under a number of reservations that have not yet been fulfilled, that an additional amount will be made available in 2017 to help in that process. So it looks like we have an agreement, but this is still subject to a number of conditions. Therefore, I cannot yet say that we are completely out of it, but we have taken very good steps, with the security regions explicitly confirming their full responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u4	The VVD and the SP have said together that this minister has a responsibility to call on the security regions to do so. We don't care who's bickering with who. It is clear that a solution must be found. I am therefore surprised that the Minister says that a financial solution is being sought. I understand from the National Rescue Brigade that there's another shortage. She's really short. I understand it's about $70,000. Is the Minister prepared to explain this himself if no solution is found? The Minister mentioned that investigation. We can do investigations until we get one of our own. I'm always in favour of research, I do research myself often, but there's already an investigation. I brought it back today. That investigation was completed in May. It states that there is evidence of usefulness and necessity and that this will prevent many victims. So why should a new investigation be carried out again? Can't we just skip that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is good that Mrs Kooiman raises this point again. The motion is very clear. It sets out precisely where the responsibility lies. That goes for this too. It is really up to the security regions themselves to make choices and to determine how they want to fulfil that legal task in their own security region. There is a great deal to say that this could be the role of the National Rescue Brigade, as I said last time. The security regions have the freedom to make their own choices within the legal framework. You can imagine that Friesland with the Frisian lakes or Zeeland with the Oosterschelde and the Westerschelde still have very different needs than for example Drenthe. The beauty of the current system is that security regions themselves bear that responsibility. They must therefore come to that conclusion together. It may well be that one security region then makes a choice A and the other a choice B. It is my legal responsibility to supervise the framework. I will therefore have to check whether the legal requirements have been met. I will. I do not anticipate the discussions that are being held on funding, because this point, of course, lies primarily with the security regions themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u6	The motion was clear. It called on the government to put an end to the administrative deadlock. That is an assignment to the government and therefore to this minister. I therefore appeal to the Minister to take his responsibility to put an end to this administrative bickering. I don't care where the money comes from. It's a slap in the ass. Make sure that the National Rescue Fleet, which operates nationally, be it in Drenthe, in Groningen or in Boxmeer, where there were a lot of floods, can always be where it is needed. So once again, not all administrative investigations should be carried out, because there is already an investigation and there should be no more quibbling. It's just a slap in the ass. This minister is responsible. I want him to take responsibility and come up with a solution so we don't have to stand here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u7	I am always very pleased with the enthusiastic support of Mrs Kooiman and her group for the policy I am pursuing on this issue, also in general terms. But here's what's really going on. The motion calls on the government to urge the Security Council and the security regions to put an end to the administrative deadlock, which was not with me, but with the security regions and the Security Council and the Rescue Brigade respectively, and then, wherever possible, to find a solution to the financing of the Rescue Brigade's calamity fleet. That's the motion. That's how I filled it out. I hope to be able to make a final statement very soon that we have found a solution along the line I have just set out, at least for 2017 and possibly beyond, but that is where the responsibility lies, namely in the security regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u8	I know this minister as someone who is always very creative about reading motions, but the motion says "the government requests that the administrative impasse be brought to an end and that a solution be found for future financing (...)," point. The motion is so clear and so clear is my question to the Minister to come up with a solution. Again, it's a slap in the ass. Make sure the National Rescue Fleet can just keep doing the special and beautiful work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mrs Kooiman and I agree on the important work the rescue brigade is doing. I also believe that we agree on the way in which we have divided it in the Netherlands. I think I've been very clear about the motion. We also agree on the text of the motion; we have both read it. In that respect, there is no light between Mrs Kooiman's request and my answers. I note, therefore, that I am simply continuing on the path that has been taken in order to carry out the motion. We have come a long way with that. I am very pleased that this is the case, but the last step in this must really be taken by the rescue brigade on the one hand and the security regions on the other. I will monitor this very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u10	The Minister just said in a rather procedural answer that the impasse is not with him, but he is undoubtedly also reading the newspaper. It says that the levels of extreme rainfall are due to climate change and that the Delta Commissioner also says that we did not actually expect the amount of rain that is now falling until around 2030. If there is a flood and we need the rescue fleet badly, is the answer "the impasse was not with me" not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mrs Van Tongeren's question consists of two elements. On the one hand, there is an administrative impasse with regard to the implementation of the National Rescue Fleet. We have now discussed this extensively. On the other hand, Mrs Van Tongeren says that the National Rescue Fleet is needed. That's right. It is not so much the National Rescue Fleet that is needed, but the security regions must take adequate measures against flooding. The fact that the flood risk may be different than was estimated will be the case and will also underline the importance of the legal framework we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u12	Your second question, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u13	Citizens rely on their government for their safety, for the things they cannot arrange for themselves. If we can't find the €70,000 that my colleague from the SP mentioned, for the level we need now, I wonder how we're going to do it now that the risk has become much greater. What is needed for this minister to really direct this dossier in order to ensure that all Dutch citizens can count on salvation if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have just explained how the legal framework is organised. Safety regions should be able to take appropriate measures against flooding. The way in which they do this is a choice of the security regions themselves. This is also the debate that is currently taking place between the rescue brigade and the security regions. My job is that at the end of the day I ask Mrs Van Tongeren to assess whether the legal framework is being implemented. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u15	We are discussing a lot of complicated issues in the Chamber, but this is very simple. The people who have to save us are €70,000 short. The VVD and the SP have instructed the Minister to settle this before 1 June. Then we need to meet with 25 security regions. How much is that gonna cost? It is also necessary to carry out a year of research before 1 January 2017. How much is that gonna cost? I think we've already lost $70,000. Can the Minister just settle this, can he just invest $70,000 and can he sort this out instead of sitting on the procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u16	I appreciate the positive but, above all, unorthodox way in which Mr Van Raak asks his question: can the Minister arrange this? This minister can arrange for a lot of time, but not just because we have agreed with each other that the security regions have their own responsibility. In answering Mrs Kooiman's questions, who is a member of the same group as Mr Van Raak, I indicated where we are in that process. That process will be followed carefully. I have good hope we'll get out of there nicely. This will make further discussion on the €70,000 unnecessary, hopefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u17	The motion has not been tabled for nothing, because of course there is something going on. Many volunteers are currently in uncertainty about what it will look like in the near future. The Minister is now announcing another investigation. I am very curious to see what the Minister ultimately expects of that investigation. I think the facts are quite clear. If we are going to do another investigation now, I am a little concerned about what might be the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-07-tweedekamer-4.u18	For the record, I'm not doing that investigation. That investigation is carried out by the Security Council, the overarching board of the security regions. At my explicit request, this will be done as much as possible with the rescue brigade. The research is about how we look forward to the future in a sensible way. I think it would be wise to come out of this together, including in the context of the motion, to ensure that the administrative impasse is broken. I also see the investigation as an execution of the motion. Mrs Tellegen from Mr Van Veen's group has already asked for this. That's what it takes to get those parties together. I said myself that I am prepared to facilitate this by making part of the grant available for another year, albeit not directly but in an indirect way, and thereby ensuring that that guarantee is simply there. Mr Van Veen and I agree that this guarantee is of great importance and that the security regions must fulfil their legal task; that was also the basis of the motion.
