ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. The initiators find it an honor and pleasure to be able to defend a bill of law in this Chamber. The contribution of the members this afternoon has shown an inspiring and lively image. It varied from a senator with a game of dodgeball on the school square to the opposite experiences during a trip in Finland. In all these contributions it was noted that there is a great deal of involvement in the subject. It is not only the government that should continue to take care of education, but the Parliament in the two Chambers also appears to do so. There have been compliments. We are very grateful for that. One of the compliments was on the breadth of the coalition, as we sit here, the CDA represented by Mr Rog, D66 represented by Mr Van Meenen, and the SGP represented by my person. It was called a pragmatic coalition, but I would prefer to call it a principled coalition, because what is actually said? It says that this bill is not only relevant for a particular direction or direction, but for all schools, for the whole field of education. That is why we are pleased that in this composition we were able to present a legislative proposal which addresses the freedom and responsibility of schools, but also the scope and responsibility of the inspection. We are also pleased that we are in a venerable tradition here. It will undoubtedly be known that the first education law was issued in 1806, by Adriaan van den Ende, after there had been some trial laws before that time, let me just say. That education law ruled that the State had far-reaching interference with education, although there was no compulsory education at that time. The State determined the method and powers and competences of the teachers. The State determined the didactics and pedagogy. This quickly led to resistance and disgust across the country. A state that prescribes how or what: that is so unDutch, I would almost say. That's how it was experienced. This led to the incorporation into the Constitution in 1848 under the leadership of the Liberal Thorbecke of that wonderful article on freedom of education. After that, there was a whole battle about financial equality. It was completed in 1917. In fact, we have had a special education system in the Netherlands since 1848. That "special" refers not to the form of government, but to the general meaning of the word "special." It is an exceptional system, because instead of state education, as it was designed at the beginning of education legislation, within half a century the step towards socially anchored education was taken. That is the strength of the Dutch education system: socially anchored education. This means that the government has a responsibility, but it also means that society has a responsibility and is given the space to take that responsibility. We firmly believe that this initiative legislative proposal is a legislative proposal that is fully in line with that tradition of the socially anchored education system. That is why we are very pleased that we have been able to present this with such a broad political spectrum. However, I also appreciate the remark that it was a pragmatic coalition, because of course it also has to do with creating political support. I mean to say that I am extremely pleased that, as has been shown on the other side, there was a huge political support, very broad, for this bill. I have the hope that this may become us here as well. Our response is made up of three coherent parts. I'm gonna go into good education first. Secondly, we are dealing with the question of accountability and the promotion of education. That part will be borne by Mr Van Meenen. Thirdly, we are discussing the solid role of the educational field itself. Mr. Rog will take care of that. First, proper education. Mrs De Vries-Leggeby gave a nice overview of the developments in supervision against the background of Article 23 of the Constitution. It is almost 100 years since the demands of validity were enshrined in the Constitution. This is a good reason to highlight its crucial nature once again. The instrument of the legal requirements is primarily intended to ensure that all schools provide good education. We must not underestimate this, but these demands must be borne in mind by the government in its constitutional care of education. The initiators are pleased that the legislative proposal has at least contributed to the awareness of this instrument, but the visibility of its proper use and functioning seems to be gaining momentum. Attention has been paid to the system of robustness requirements. Where's the package? How big is it actually, what exactly is under it and what isn't anymore? There is a need for clarity. The initiators would find it only natural that schools should have a clear and up-to-date overview of the adequacy requirements, in the sense of: look schools, this is the package, that you must meet at least. These demands are actually a box of legal rules that have been formed over decades, sometimes even centuries. For a large part, schools are familiar with this by way of habit and there are no problems, but there are often many borders on these rules which create uncertainty or which unduly restrict or restrict the freedom of schools. A clear overview can then be helpful for the school in formulating and developing their own vision. The bill calls for this own vision to be incorporated into the school plan. What is required and what is not? This is a crucial question for school leaders and teachers in determining their own direction in education. Sometimes school leaders find to their surprise that things they have seen for years as an obligation are not at all. They then like to take advantage of the freedom granted to them. An overview can therefore be useful and does not need to be used directly negative as if that is the minimum package. The initiators note that a clear and up-to-date overview is not available at the moment. That's striking. In the explanatory memorandum and in the note accompanying the report, the initiators initiated such an overview of the adequacy requirements. It has been explicitly presented as a rough overview. Some of the requirements of validity can only be found in the formal law, while others are more detailed. There are also many technical regulations, but these are limited in our overview. It would be a good idea to have a readable and concise overview that schools clearly show what the frameworks the government sets, just a simple brochure that each school gets as a gift. It sets out the robustness requirements to be met. That seems like a good challenge to us. This may immediately clarify which parts are now less necessary and may lapse. We welcome the commitment, the suggestion to ensure this for the summer. Mr Pijlman asked about the risk that schools would see the validity requirements as a limited check-off list. How do we prevent this and what is the role of the inspection in this? The initiators want to start by noting that a school that meets all the requirements of quality does not offer poor education. Members of Parliament may reread the annex in the note following the report. It is an all-round package, dated in parts, but still solid, which also guarantees in its present form that it is not a rigid education. If it is met, good education will be provided. On the basis of the Constitution, schools should be able to say that they provide good education and that citizens should not be concerned about its quality. That is what we want to achieve. That is why this phenomenon is enshrined in the Constitution. In addition, the quality requirements themselves often do not permit the creation of a tick-off list. Indeed, there are also many procedural demands that see a culture of quality and work for accountability and improvement. In case there appears to be a tick-off list, the inspection can indeed pay attention to this in its stimulating task. This will give us more opportunities to get to work on the adequacy requirements. If there is a culture in which compliance with rules shows unhealthy traits, this can be noted by the inspection, who can discuss it. It does not guarantee vital education. In this context, the initiators would like to comment on the draft framework of the inspection. When talking about a "check list," there is a suggestion that schools can at least successfully identify all parts. However, in the draft framework, it seems that schools can even be called "sufficient" if they do not meet legal requirements in an essential area, for example in the field of education. That seems to be a curious situation. The starting point for good education must be that schools meet all the necessary requirements, especially when it comes to crucial provisions on, for example, language and numeracy, although the package is now much wider, as Members of Parliament know. From this point of view, there seems to be rather cause for concern as to whether the culture of ticking comes out sufficiently, I should like to say stimulatingly. Mr Schalk has asked how we will come up with new demands for a clear definition of what is really mandatory and what is not. Mr Bruijn pointed out that, in his view, the requirements of soundness are not always unambiguous. The initiators note that the legislator could operate more carefully when making demands. This is important both in order not to send out the inspection with unclear assignments and also to prevent schools and parents from knowing where they are going. The recent change in the law on safety in education shows how a rigorous process should take place: what exactly have we regulated so far and how can we define new tasks? Unfortunately, there is a certain regularity in the fact that there is too much openness or that the explanatory statement is even different from the legislative text. As far as we are concerned, we must avoid such situations. The example referred to by Mr Bruijn refers specifically to a so-called target definition. This is a question of rules of an open nature which actually have the character of a wish rather than being applicable in practice. The initiators believe that the legislator should be very cautious with such provisions. In any case, the supervisor will certainly be obliged to do so. The Education Council rightly states that inspection should be more cautious as the rules are more indeterminate and open in nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u2	Can I understand Mr Bishop in such a way that he says: when new legislation is introduced, should it be explicitly stated whether it is part of the proper requirements, or whether it is part of the controlling task, or of the stimulating task, so that we no longer have any confusion about it in a subsequent legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u3	As far as I am concerned, that would be a very good form of work. This requires that what has already been requested from the side of this Chamber has also been carried out. I mean that the adequacy requirements have been updated and have all been carefully reviewed, so that there is a coherent, comprehensive package that schools have to meet in order to achieve the different objectives that education wants to serve. Next, the legislator will indeed have to take into account the question of whether this is to be a necessity or whether it is something that can be given a place in the future framework conditions, so that it can encourage schools to make their choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u4	My question follows on from this. I'd like to get some clarity about it. Isn't it true that once the law says that a school has to comply with something, it becomes a de facto requirement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u5	That's one way of interpreting it, but it's not necessarily the case as far as we're concerned. Get a plague protocol. You can say that's what there must be at a school. However, you can also go further and already in legislation detail what should be in that protocol etc. As far as we are concerned, the demand for a plague protocol could be a valid one, preferably in a broader context. But the elaboration of such a protocol is much more in the field of the school itself, although it could perhaps be worked out in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u6	In order to understand it a little more clearly, I still have one more question. At the time when the law stipulates that there must be a plague protocol and that its content is regulated by law, does it not become part of the adequacy requirements? If the law does not go beyond prescribing that there should be a plague protocol and then says that AMvB or a school plan should regulate how that happens, then it is part of the quality aspects. But the moment the law prescribes it, isn't it a de facto requirement? We need to understand how far the scope is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u7	At the time when a law prescribes not only that there should be a plague protocol, but also what its content should be. That is why we say: be careful and think carefully about how these requirements are designed and how they are put together. Mrs Nooren asked if schools deserve a transitional period in order to meet all the requirements. The initiators don't want to recommend that. After all, schools are already obliged to comply with all the requirements. Some regulations have been in place for decades. More recent regulations have only been taken into account in terms of a proper time-limit for implementation and the way in which monitoring is carried out. This led, for example, to an undertaking that the initial years will take into account the fact that the cooperative support plans are still in their infancy and are in a strong development. The fact that there may be uncertainty about the set of robustness requirements that has been formed over time cannot relieve schools of the responsibility to comply with them. In particular, the initiators stress the need for public authorities to provide for compact and accessible legislation, which is subject to periodic review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u8	I'm listening to some kind of circular reasoning in the talk of the initiators. On the one hand, Mr Bishop says that it has to be different in order to strengthen the validity, because there is a great deal of interpretation of the concept of soundness. I hope that the Secretary of State will undertake to clarify the adequacy requirements before the summer. However, there may also be something else that a school now has in mind. On the other hand, Mr Bishop says that it is not really relevant, because schools have to comply with it immediately. But suppose that between now and the summer there will be a different interpretation of the validity requirements than there was and the inspection will be maintained immediately. Suppose, for example, it says not only that a school should have a plague protocol, but also that the school should evaluate it three times a month. Isn't it special to maintain something that wasn't known?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u9	That's in itself right. As far as we are concerned, it is formal that schools have to meet the standards. We'd like to keep that up. On the other hand, we realise that there is a transitional period of a number of years in which schools can adapt to the new design. That is what the initiative law provides for thanks to amendment. It is therefore a period in which the inspection and the schools can jointly seek the best possible organisation of supervision and the best organisation of education at that school. Technically, they have to meet the requirements, but I agree with Mrs Nooren that it does not make sense to maintain them strictly if it proves to be an inefficient or outdated requirement. In that case, the school could use its energy better for other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u10	I have the feeling that the legislative proposal is aimed at clarifying what is necessary. They must be proportionate and clear in content. I hope that between now and the summer there will be clarity about the package that the initiators want. That's what we all want in the Chamber. I think that's the time to take stock and see how you can maintain on something you just got new. That is what my question was specifically about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u11	But this also applies on the other side of the coin. It is also explicitly stated that schools have the space and the time to acclimatize and to make their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u12	So the initiators actually say that there has to be enough time to meet the robustness requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u13	Sure. It's a good thing this is being replicated. Mr Schalk asked for the distinction between "insufficient" and "very weak." The initiators would like to stress first the similarities between these judgments. In both cases it is a question of failing to comply with legal requirements. These can be all kinds of rules, depending on the specific situation. The distinction between "very weak" is in the serious and long-term lack of learning outcomes for mathematics and language. A school cannot therefore become very weak if these results are sufficient. In the case of very weak education, however, there must always be more to it than inadequate learning outcomes. In practice, these schools often fail to comply with other legal requirements. Mr Ganzevoort asked a question about the scope of the learning outcomes. The initiators agree that the government should not unilaterally place emphasis on learning outcomes in the narrow sense of the word. We hope that this has been clarified in the proposal. In addition to learning outcomes, there must be other problems in complying with legal requirements in the case of very weak education. However, the proposal does not propose limiting the scope of learning outcomes. For very weak education, results for mathematics and language remain central. Other results appear to be even more difficult to measure, because they are difficult to objectify.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u14	Mr Bishop pointed out that it must be "very weak' very serious in the judgment. That's what I understood. My point was that the words "sufficient" and "not sufficient" and "very weak" are used. By connecting, those words make you feel like you're on some sort of rating scale. I would like to hear explicitly from Mr Bishop that 'not enough' does not mean 4 or 5, but that it means that something is not being met. And if one doesn't meet something very well, one gets the predicate "very weak." Is that what Mr Bishop means?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u15	That is an excellent interpretation. The core of the legislative proposal is indeed the assessment of adequacy requirements. A school doesn't do or doesn't do. When a school fails, it can lead to the predicate "very weak." In that case, there is a lot going on. That's the line of thought. The other key point is that the list is not ticked off if a school is adequate. No, then the conversation begins about education as it takes shape and content at the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u16	This means, of course, that the word used must also be crystal clear in the inspection and in the reporting of the inspection. Is a school characterised as sufficient or insufficient, or as satisfied or not satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u18	I think that will be an explication for the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u19	That seems to us to be a good point to draw attention to when it comes to implementation. We need to be clear and clear about the terminology used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u20	Thank you for the explanation of the learning outcomes and their narrowing. Indeed, I understood from the explanatory statement that it is precisely a broad view of quality. As a result, I was triggered by the precise text of the bill. It replaces "learning outcomes" several times with "learning outcomes in the field of language, mathematics and mathematics." That's where my question came from. Is there a restriction in this focus that is somewhat conflicting with the underlying idea that it is precisely a broad approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u21	No, at least that's not the intention. I do not know exactly in which articles it is formulated in this way. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to ensure that there is good education when a school meets its requirements. These requirements include, for example, the formation of citizenship, social security and the competence of teachers. They are all mentioned in the annex. There is no doubt that the learning outcomes in terms of mathematics and language are crucial. However, it is not intended to narrow it down, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u22	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u23	Hence my desire for an explanation. Why are the learning outcomes in the literal text of the bill made specific to language and mathematics on a number of points? Perhaps this question can be answered in a later period. I am so curious to see what this focus is on when it comes to a broader approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u24	I think it would be good to return to this in the second term. Mr Ganzevoort also asked for clarification of elements such as sexual diversity in key objectives and citizenship education. It is a question of adequacy, as I have just said. Key objectives are the effects of General Administrative Measures and of regulations in the education laws. Citizenship education is even fully covered by the Education Act and has not been further developed in further rules. However, the school must give a clear insight into what is being done in this area. Both parts are indeed subject to supervision in the actual sense. Mr Ganzevoort referred to this as "limited surveillance." On the basis of the framework vision of supervision, the monitoring of compliance with legal requirements is monitored. Other tasks, such as incentives, should therefore not be called supervision. This is clearly regulated in the proposal and brought into line with other supervisors. The PVV has set an example of an Islamic school in Amsterdam. The question was whether students' beatings could be addressed on the basis of the robustness requirements and to what extent such incidents would have caused the inspection in the past. Quite apart from the criminal aspect of the case, it is true that the government can tackle schools on the basis of sound standards if pupils are beaten. The safety of pupils is the responsibility of the competent authority on the basis of the education laws. This includes not only social and psychological safety, but also physical safety. The demand for the past is purely theoretical. However, the answer can also be simple. Should a legal basis have been lacking, the inspection would not have had any leads in the past on the basis of the current monitoring. After all, if the inspection had addressed the school on the basis of quality aspects, there would be no sanctions. The quality aspects are own insights of the inspection and not legal requirements which could lead to admissibility in the event of non-compliance. So much for good education. I would ask the President to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen who would like to speak about promoting and explaining education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u25	Thank you, Mr Bishop. I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u26	Mr. Chairman. For me too, it is a great pleasure and a great honor to be standing here. I would like to congratulate the Members who commented on the bill for their contribution. I am not saying that because today is national complimentary day, a bit of course, but because it is a pleasure and pleasure to find so much wisdom in such a limited space. That's good. The enthusiasm and the clear interest in the subject have also touched me and my colleagues. Almost all speakers have asked questions about the differentiated judgements and the 2017 draft review framework of the inspection. Let me say first of all that I understand if the inspection were to come up with planning problems if it had not already come up with a draft review framework for 2017. In general, however, the initiators find it undesirable and perhaps even uncourteous if an official service anticipates a bill that has not yet been adopted by this Chamber. It is quite possible that the inspection would have come to other texts if it had been able to take note of the discussions that are taking place here today. Then I have an even more or less procedural comment. Not we as initiators have submitted this bill to your Chamber. That's what the House of Representatives did. We are defending the bill here as representatives of the entire House of Representatives. It's probably known to your room, because it's always been. However, it is good to emphasise here that we too are very well aware of this. This means that we have a certain reluctance in terms of policy plans and legislative pathways that could be implemented after the adoption of this bill. In the House of Representatives, these plans and legislative proposals can be considered very differently, as has been shown, for example, by the motion of the SP which asked the House of Representatives to state that the differentiated judgment would not be in the spirit of this initiative law. This motion was neither adopted nor supported by the groups of the initiators, arguing that the legislative proposal is not about this. That is precisely why we are making a sharp distinction between the present legislative proposal on the one hand and what could possibly be done afterwards on the other. As far as we are concerned, this includes the 2017 review framework. Having said that, we do not close our eyes to the fact that future discussions are already casting their shadows. The question is whether a legal basis is needed for the distribution of predicates as "good" and "excellent." The initiators, as three members of the House of Representatives and thus expressly not as representatives of the House of Representatives, are of the opinion that a legal basis is needed for this. The Secretary of State is of the opinion, if we understand correctly, that it can be done without law. There are two aspects to this. The first is a legal aspect: can the public authorities make such important judgments, which give a major competitive advantage to some recipients and a major disadvantage to others, without any legal standard when they can or cannot be granted? The second aspect concerns the question of whether the granting of such predicates is appropriate to the incentive role of the inspection. Mrs De Vries rightly asked that question. That can be considered differently. In general, however, it is justifiable that rewards can be stimulating. Mr Bruijn has set the example of grandfathers saying stimulating things to their grandchildren. There are two here behind the table, I say for clarity. Of course it is. We also have fantastic grandchildren, I can tell you. There is therefore every reason to do so. However, you have to ask yourself, Mr Bruijn himself has actually already raised that question, whether you want to see the government as your mother or as your grandfather. That is what I want to say once again, in the direction of Mr Bruijn. I'm just guessing that his party doesn't even think differently about that, but that it's actually an abomination for her. We are talking here about a rather complicated subject: can we focus on promoting the diversity of education if the various quality aspects, which can all be assessed by the inspection, are simplified into a single label? The initiators have serious doubts about this. They do not think it is imaginary that an in itself well-meaning incentive can even be counterproductive. Take, for example, a school which the inspection calls particularly excellent because the learning outcomes of pupils are so well followed, while parents value the positive educational environment more. Are parents then served by this predicate and are they not mistaken when choosing a school? In any case, the usefulness of a predicate is unclear when the criteria may vary considerably from one school to another. Mr Bruijn asked whether, when the inspection took its view, there was not a great risk that the incentive task would soon become a monitoring task. That is what the initiators think, especially when this judgment is to be differentiated. Mr Bruijn and Mrs Nooren asked whether the inspection in its 2017 monitoring framework referred to "met the clarity requirements" and "met to a large extent." Our answer is yes to that too. The inspection shouldn't do that. Indeed, according to the initiators, this blurs the boundary between the controlling and the stimulating tasks of the inspection, while the legislative proposal seeks to better define those two tasks. We also see confusion between judgements and findings in the draft inspection framework. The distinction between the controlling task and the stimulating task really needs to be much better than it is now. Mr Pijlman asked why this would affect the authority of the inspection. In general, you can say that the authority of an assessor is more affected as his judgements become more subjective and arbitrary. That is more the case if a supervisor has the choice of a judgment in five degrees than if there are only two. Mrs Nooren asked why we actually retain the stimulating role of the inspection. Well, because we find it useful. I do not want to say anything to the detriment of initiatives from the sector and society, but the education inspection is an important centre of knowledge. In our view, maintaining the stimulating role of the inspection also fits perfectly with the first paragraph of Article 23 of the Constitution: "Education is a subject of the continuing concern of the government." Mrs Nooren also asked how a three-dimensional vision of quality, as advocated by the Education Council for example, can fit within the two traces of supervision and stimulate the initiators. Can these two tracks actually do enough justice to a multifaceted vision of quality? The initiators consider that the three dimensions are not at odds with the two tracks, but that they are dealt with both within the supervision and within the stimulating task. The robustness requirements include elements of both knowledge, understanding, skills, vocational preparation and social orientation as well as citizenship. Those demands are therefore not easy. This complete palette can also be addressed in the stimulating task. In the end, the key question remains to what extent, on the basis of all these multifaceted elements, the government intends to apply obligations. Mr Bruijn questioned the possibility of an objection and appeal against a report resulting in the "very weak education" judgment. The provision of legal protection has been our driving force. The danger of legalisation can be countered. However, we are inclined to comment on the fact that the schools themselves would not have such a need for this. We believe that it is very difficult for schools to live up to the fact that the inspection is'very weak education'. However, if it does happen and you do not think that the assessment of the inspection has been carefully carried out, we do not rule out the fact that the school concerned finds it extremely pleasant and also very important if there is any objection to it. This does not necessarily mean that improvements are being made as quickly as possible. As mentioned above, there is no suspensive effect of appeals and objections. That must be done. In the end, however, the choice remains with the school. Anyone who doesn't like legal proceedings doesn't have to object. In doing so, responsibility lies entirely with the school's board. The participation council may advise, but may not decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u27	I have a question for Mr Van Meenen. It is clear that there is no suspensive effect of an appeal and objection procedure. That's just what the law says. That wasn't my point either. My question was whether, if a school objects to the inspection, it would not be good if the inspection against that school said: "Are you not prepared to see if we can go on an improvement journey together? That does not deprive you of the right to appeal or appeal at all, but as an inspection I propose to look first at an improvement path. You can, of course, insist on an objection procedure at any time you want to do so, and then we will do so." That was the port of my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u28	We hope that this legislative proposal will increase the level of dialogue between the school and the inspection. This fits in perfectly. One arrives when it is good almost collectively to the conclusion that it is not in order. If, however, there is a difference of opinion on this matter, it seems to the initiators to be only very good if the discussion on this matter is continued in the first instance, and if it really does not come out, then perhaps the way forward will be taken. So we can only agree with Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u29	I have a question about what Van Meenen said earlier about differentiated judgment. I read in one of the paragraphs in the liberal electoral programme that I mentioned earlier something in which we can agree, namely that a weak school should be placed under curatel. Now I am going to debate with Mr Van Meenen as a Member of Parliament, because he has introduced himself as such. What does his party mean by the argument that weak schools should be placed under curate if they do not want to distribute the predicate "weak"? Do you actually have to put a random school under curate in the hope that it happened to be a weak school? You can't give that predicate. How are we supposed to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u30	I am, of course, very pleased that Mr Bruijn is looking closely at what is in my party's electoral programme. I hope he'll do the same next time. This is what we are talking about, and it is also worked out that where the predicate is distributed "very weak', no time should be wasted and there should be improvement within a year. That has ultimately been the outcome of this process and that remains the intention of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u31	Finally, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u32	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u33	Yes, you may, but Mr Bruijn also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u34	That is also acceptable to me, but, of course, that is what you are talking about, Mr President. The D66 election program is not written as a legal text. It is intended that there should not be a long period in which a school performs below par.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u35	So when I read that the government has to get in to make demands and put a weak school under curate if a school is weak, is it meant "very weak"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u36	Yeah, in our election program, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u37	Then it was a linguistic error or a typo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u38	That happens to us, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u39	I also have a question about differentiated judgements. Mr Van Meenen somehow linked this to the research framework. Can I understand that he said at the beginning of his speech that this law is not at all about the differentiated judgments, that this is not at all the issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u41	Then he talked about the research framework, and I would like to keep these two very far apart. If this law isn't about the differentiated judgment, we shouldn't talk so much about it. We need to talk a lot more about what's in the research framework. I do not understand Mr Van Meenen's reasoning. He says, of course, they still have to see what's agreed here. In their introduction to the research framework, they embraced this bill, but then I see that they confuse the various tasks, i.e. the controlling task and the stimulating task. That's different from judging you differently. Does Mr Van Meenen wish to make that quite clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u42	Let me start by saying once again that we agree that this bill is not about this. It is not about whether or not there should be a differentiated judgment. The Secretary of State has an opinion on this. It has been translated into the research framework that is now in concept. The initiators as well as members of the House of Representatives, not necessarily defenders of this bill, are of the opinion that this requires a legal basis. Today it has become clear that this subject is also alive here. That is why we felt that we should be very clear about this. As initiators, it is also true that there is already a concept of research framework, which anticipates the differentiated judgment without any mention being made of it, in any way. That interpretation is not ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u43	Okay, that's one aspect, so apparently it's already been cycled in while that's not the point at all. The other aspect is that you do not believe that the research framework currently in place is adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u44	I've said more about it. On a number of points it is shady. Furthermore, the distinction between controlling and stimulating does not seem clear, while we want to make a clear distinction between these laws. Anyway, there's a lot to note about it, partly in the light of this law and its intentions. That is why I pointed out that it would have been more sophisticated if the framework had not been established until this legislative proposal had been fully dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u45	Very briefly. If this law is passed, it's a law, whether you like it or not. Then every Dutchman has to stick to it. Doesn't that mean that he also has an impact on the way the inspection works?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u46	Sure, sure, but we point out that it has to be done in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u47	The research framework has stimulating and evaluating aspects. Would it not be better for the clarity of the significance of the research framework for the field if the research framework focused on the evaluating aspects and the other element of the stimulating monitoring ended up in another place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u48	We do not want to interfere too much in the operation of the inspection, but I think it is extremely important for the schools to include the other aspects in a certain framework. And that can only be a much wider framework than the judging part, of course. This has also been mentioned very explicitly in the debate in the House of Representatives. It is clearly one of the great intentions of this bill that this is becoming much sharper. Right now, we're really dealing with some sort of phantom regulation. No one knows what has or does not have a legal basis anymore. That's what we want to go back to. We believe that the research framework currently in place is insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u49	You share the view that the robustness requirements must be crystal clear in order to distinguish the added value of this bill and that it includes a research framework that will make it operational?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u50	Yes, without a doubt! Mr Bruijn asked about the role of learning gains in the conduct of the inspection. The initiators can imagine that attention is being paid to learning gains in education. This development is, moreover, taking place at the moment. However, this can only be done in the context of the stimulating task. Studies show that this is a very complex area. It's not easy to catch standards. It may well be an excellent point that is addressed in the horizontal accountability. Parents can challenge the school to make the learning gain transparent in their own way. If the inspection can serve this purpose, the initiators do not want to exclude it, more strongly, they want to encourage it. One of the thoughts, of course, is that the inspection should be carried out precisely in the context of horizontal accountability, for example to parents, but also to society, to make clear what the school really does deliver on the school plan. In itself, the school plan is a piece of paper. The inspection makes it clear to everyone who feels involved in the school, so in a horizontal sense, what is being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u51	Just a few more minutes. It concerned me with the learning gain and the added value, two different things of course, especially to correct the benefit you can have for the population you are dealing with. Of course, that has to do with the perverse stimulus that arises when you only look at the final levels. The spokeswoman of the SP spoke very clearly about this this morning. I hope that we will not leave the learning gains and added value behind as a concept. I believe that this is likely to happen, not because of the initiators, but because of the broad debate. Perhaps the initiators can say to the House of Representatives that at least my group in the First Chamber would like to see the discussion updated, precisely to counter the perverse incentive given by looking only at the final level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u52	I have also experienced all the debates on this subject, particularly in the House of Representatives. I can assure Mr Bruijn that it is certainly not out of the picture. The Secretary of State can say more about what the Ministry is doing about it at the moment. That is, of course, quite complicated, because it is much easier to look at the final results, rather than the profits that have been made with students and students. But it's possible. I regard this as an appeal to colleagues not to waste a moment on this point. Mr Ganzevoort made a comment on the publication of the inspection reports. He's questioning whether those reports would be public. I can remove that doubt: the reports are public under Article 21 of the law. In principle, the WOB is not necessary for this purpose. This applies both to the judging part of the reports and to the stimulating part. Mr Kops made a few comments on the systematic and drafting of the bill, in which I could not follow him very well. What the legislative proposal does is distinguish between the tasks of the inspection in particular the supervisory and the stimulant task. This requires a number of editorial interventions. As an overarching concept, the law now speaks of "tasks," but concepts such as monitoring and encouraging the development of education are maintained. Mr President, I would ask you, last but not least, to give my dear colleague, Mr Rog, the floor for the final part. That 'teerbeloved' also applies to Mr Bishop. I actually only have dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u53	Well, well, well, well, well. A dearly beloved group of friends, I understand from this. Mr. Rog feels addressed. He has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u54	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me to speak in your Chamber. I can assure you that during the contributions of my two esteemed colleagues, I have been able to delete three parts of the text. I will deal with the position of the field of education. Because what this initiative law wants is for teachers, school leaders and teachers to be able to carry out their tasks independently and visionfully. This bill encourages schools to take even more responsibility and reflect on their vision of quality of education. In this light, I would like to join with Mr Pijlman of D66, who states that quality cannot be enforced by the government, but comes from intrinsically motivated teachers working on a quality culture. Mrs Nooren of the PvdA also asked about the appreciation of the initiators for initiatives by schools to work on intervision, for example. These initiatives are well known to us and lead us to our experience, often interesting conversations. But they also often lead to an intrinsic improvement culture in these schools, such as preparing lessons together, exchanging teachers between schools or freeing up time for teaching development. The initiators believe that the strength of these initiatives lies precisely in the ownership of teachers themselves. The ambitions of schools in these areas will soon be part of the school plan and thus also of the discussion with the inspector. Not to settle the school, but to question her as a critical friend about the goals and the path of the school that one wants to take to achieve those goals. In this way, the school plan will also become the living document that Mrs Gerkens of the SP spoke about in her contribution, rather than the document that lies in that drawer. Several members asked how far the school plan was monitored. It is precisely in the school plan that the school shows its vision of education and of quality, which goes beyond just meeting the requirements of soundness. First of all, the school plan itself is a necessity. The inspection can therefore check whether the elements of the policy to be described are actually described. The inspection may also assess the development of those elements of the school plan for which further requirements are also laid down, for example on the use of a apprenticeship follow-up system or on the employment of qualified teachers. As far as the incentive task is concerned, the initiators consider that the inspection will discuss with the schools how the paper reality of the school plan relates to the school's daily practice. These findings also make it easier for the participation bodies to discuss this with the school management. Mrs Gerkens spoke about the school plan, which should reflect the passion of the school. We can only agree entirely with her. It is precisely the intention that this is not a paper story, but the impact of the school's practice. It is not a theory that is separate from reality. The school plan is therefore a living document, in which the inspection shows the school a mirror, has a good conversation and also looks at how the school plan is applied in daily practice. Furthermore, the inspection can show the school a mirror where improvement is possible. In his contribution, Mr Bruijn asked to what extent this bill is now Dijsselbloem-proof. That is a relevant question, because eight years and two weeks ago, the Dijsselbloem Commission presented its report. I'll read it out briefly. The inspection should focus more and primarily on monitoring legally established standards of soundness and to a high extent safeguard schools from additional quality requirements. The law needs to be strengthened on this point. That was an opinion from Mr Dijsselbloem and his committee. The opinion was adopted by the full Chamber. I say to Mr Bruijn: today, eight years and two weeks later, we are implementing this recommendation from that committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u55	Still, about the fact that Dijsselbloem is proof of the bill. If you're reading that report like that, it says we need to get a better understanding of the term. That is something else than quality standards, I think. And we need to look more innovative, better and more comprehensively at how we test whether those final terms are achieved, for example with a start and a final test. You'll get back to that learning profit. In return, you should leave it to the school how they do it. I hear you talking about the apprenticeship follow-up system, which I think is called apprenticeship and educational follow-up, but okay. Isn't that an example of how, as Dijsselbloem means? Shouldn't you be looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u56	We will have to re-assess the validity requirements. We will therefore have to make a political assessment of this. At present, there is a need, for example, for a form of final test to be used in primary education and for apprenticeship follow-up systems. This does not interfere with the question of how a school reaches the final level of its pupils, because that is up to the school itself. Only the use of systems and methods is recorded, the how we leave to the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u57	Agreed. That's just the "or" part of it. Is that how we interpret this bill? Is more attention given to testing in the adequacy requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u58	This law does not provide any additional initiatives on this issue. The inspection may indeed express itself in judgmental terms about the validity of the requirements, while the other quality aspects are the subject of a good discussion. It must not, however, make any judgment on this. This is exactly in line with the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Committee on the role of inspection, which Mr Bruijn raised. Mrs De Vries-Leggeby felt that an amendment to add a need for correctness, in particular because of the process, was on the verge. The initiators understand this concern, but they would like to stress that, as I pointed out in the debate on the interruption, Mr Bruijn should not be added lightly. New obligations should be submitted to Parliament after a careful process of preparation. This too is Dijsselbloemproof. The field of education must of course also be given the opportunity to react first. In addition, advisory bodies are given the opportunity to provide input. By following this royal path, we limit the risk of hasty and ill-thought-out changes being decided upon. Mr Bruijn and Mr Ganzevoort also asked how we would avoid further and new demands. Is "hope" enough in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u59	I shall come back to those requirements. Is Mr Rog now saying that this must be a very careful process, that schools should be able to respond to it and that these requirements should ultimately be laid down by law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u60	That is certainly the situation. With this bill, we certainly do not want to change that either. The government and parliament should be reluctant to keep building up new demands. In the regular consultation with the inspection, a position can also be taken by the educational field. The basic rules, or the rules of the game as Mr Ganzevoort called them, are in the test on the need for legal measures and then on proportionality. In addition, the guarantee lies in the fact that legislation has to be dealt with by both chambers and in the fact that a mandatory opinion is requested from the Council of State, and in many cases that of the Education Council. In the opinion of the initiators, this should provide sufficient guarantees. If this isn't enough, it's not gonna work. Frankly, I have had to delete the other points from my contribution, because they have already been raised. I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u61	I got a little confused. I just assume that the three initiators speak with one voice. I was just confused by what Mr Van Meenen said about the public access to the reports. I had to look that up because I thought he was right. However, I read something else in the explanatory statement, namely that there are two reports: one on the quality of education and one on the stimulating task. It then states that only the quality inspection report is made public. I don't know what's going on anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u62	I think that we have made a clear difference in this law between the judgements of the inspection on adequacy requirements and the findings when it comes to the quality of education if you like, but at least what is laid down in the school plan. Both, both judgements and findings, shall be made public. On the merits, the school can be dealt with; that's a judgment. The other is a publication of the findings of the inspection on how the school fulfils its own ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u63	That really is a different sentence than simply making the judgment on quality public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u64	I would like to confine myself to this answer. If the President will allow me, I can go into this in more detail in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u65	Mr. Chairman. It's nice to be here with my colleagues. Well, they're not entirely colleagues, but still. We often sit across the street and now we're all sitting here behind one table; that's special to see. I congratulate both the authors of this initiative and the spokesmen, the senators, of this Chamber, for the precise preparation of a very fundamental debate. We are talking about a legislative proposal that strengthens the legal basis for educational supervision in the Netherlands to ultimately encourage schools to improve educational quality. That is the purpose of this bill. The legislative proposal emphasises the central position of caring for the quality of education by the schools and administrations themselves and the responsibility they have to shoulder to those involved in and around the school, as well as in the second instance to the inspection. This fits in very well with the ambition of this cabinet to encourage culture in schools to keep an eye on continuous improvement of quality. The initiative legislative proposal is also in line with the cabinet plans for the renewal of supervision of the inspection of education. In schools that meet the basic quality requirements, dialogue between professionals and the inspection of how the school works on continuous improvement can be much more effective. In line with the initiators, I recognize myself in the two different tasks of the education inspection. On the one hand, this is an education inspection "with teeth"; compliance monitoring. On the other hand, that is the somewhat softer role of the inspection to think much more as a critical friend of the school, and to encourage the school to take up its own responsibility for continuously working on improvement. It is good to make these two roles more recognizable in the law. For effective supervision, it is necessary to operationalise the adequacy requirements in research frameworks together with the field. I will come back to that later. The school plan and the vision of the school are taken as the starting point for the design of the research. The inspection looks at the extent to which the school is doing this in practice. To what extent are these two getting along? For us, it is important that the school plan is a reflection of a lively discussion at school and not just a paper or report in a drawer. It needs to be talked about by school leaders, school leaders and teachers with pupils and parents, so that a system of quality care provides the basis for improvements and, very importantly, results in real quality, recognizable in practice. The initiative legislative proposal is also well in line with the government's policy to strengthen administrative power and participation in the educational community. The legislative proposal for strengthening administrative power now before the Chamber lays down important elements needed to achieve a culture in which directors, co-determination and other parties together engage in good conversation, with respect for everyone's role and with clear responsibilities. Finally, this bill fits very well with the organisational stroke we are trying to make within the inspection. Not only good education is a subject, but also the design and implementation of good supervision is a subject in which we need to give the inspection the space and confidence and on which we need to train our people. That is exactly what is happening within our inspection right now. I would now like to draw up five elements which have been explicitly mentioned in the contributions of the spokesmen. Firstly, I would like to say something about the space for schools and professionals. Secondly, I would like to address the research frameworks and the way in which we are now working to operationalise some of the issues included in this legislative proposal. Thirdly, and hence, I will deal with questions such as: how do we deal with this idea of differentiated supervision? What does that mean? How can we shape that properly? Fourthly, I would like to say a few words about appeal and objection in the event that a school really falls through the ice and is therefore very weak. I would like to conclude by saying a few words about the evaluation of both the requirements and this law, because these are two different things. Mr Schalk asked whether this bill would achieve the objective of increasing the scope for professionals and more effective supervision. My answer to that is full "yes." An important starting point in this law is the school plan. The vision and ambitions of governments and schools themselves are central to this. In particular, in the context of the incentive task, there will be an open dialogue between the inspection and administration and schools to see whether the objectives set out therein are actually being achieved. I think I can be a little shorter about learning growth and learning gains.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u66	I might be very short, too. I note that the research framework in the present concept is not based on the school plan, whereas the Secretary of State says that the school plan should be the guiding motive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u67	I can say something about the research frameworks later, because I think this is a point of interest. It has also been asked whether the distinction between quality requirements and quality aspects is sufficiently clear. A number of questions have been asked. I have to say that this is something new for the inspection, which is still in the process of finding a good form for it. The inspection receives a lot of feedback on the draft research frameworks. I think that feedback is a very good basis for improving the frameworks. As far as I am concerned, all the suggestions made in this Chamber debate can also be included. I'll be back in the room for professionals. In my opinion, the part of learning gain or learning growth is very much in line with Mr Bruijn's comments, but the authors have already said a lot about this and I can agree with that. I come to the point that Mr Schalk has just raised. Do we now feel that the inspection has done justice to the initiative proposal in the draft research frameworks? I would like to underline the word 'concept'. The legislative proposal requires the new research frameworks to make the distinction between supervisory and incentive tasks visible. The inspection has tried to do so by working with sometimes more in italic printed things which then relate to the quality aspects and by laying down the remaining elements and the soundness requirements a little more firmly. Of course, there's a consultation going on for a reason. That will have to prove that we can do better. In view of the critical reactions in this Chamber, I think it is right that the inspection should take another good look at that. When operating the validity requirements and quality requirements, we must be careful not to make it a tick-off list. I believe that Mr Ganzevoort recalled that. That's very important. This can't always be done digitally, and it's not always a question of whether or not to do so. Let me give you some examples. If you want to know whether you meet the requirements in terms of learning performance, you will have to operationalize when they are sufficient. You also have to do this on the basis of the population at a school; you have to take that into account. Take the citizenship task. This is also a need for correctness. When did a school meet that? That will have to be operationalized. You can even imagine that it is not a question of "does a school or did it not comply with it?', However, it can also be seen that a school has not complied with this to a sufficient or sufficient degree. Maybe there are schools that make this something very beautiful. In this case, the inspection could say from its stimulating role that a school has largely complied with it. I think Mr Bruijn referred to this example in his speech when he talked about the continuous development process in which you see it. That too is a necessity, but of course that never goes digital. The inspection will have to look at how this takes shape in practice. For example, it is doing this by examining whether the offer is in line with the intended final level of the pupils, including in the light of the reference levels, by looking at whether the teaching is offered to the pupils in a way that suits them and at a level that suits them and by looking at whether pupils are really active and involved. This requirement is thus also considered at the level of the classroom and the pupils. One could say that the use of the qualification "complys with the law to a large extent" is covered by incentive supervision. This qualification has been used in the pilots. We need to see how that works out. Based on the evaluation of the pilots, including the internet consultation on the valuation and research frameworks, it will be considered whether these qualifications will be put into the final framework. Mrs Nooren, Mrs De Vries-Leggedoor and Mr Schalk asked what would happen if this law were adopted. Then what are the frameworks? The law is, of course, the framework. The inspection will have to operate within the law if it is adopted. The inspection is currently conducting a number of pilots, also to see if you can do more with "sufficient" and "good." Unlike'very weak', where this is the case, it is not a question of judgement. I would like to await the pilots with the new research frameworks and the evaluation. These will in principle be discussed in Parliament before the summer. I agree that there should be a clear separation between the monitoring and the stimulating role of the inspection. This distinction must therefore be clear in the supervisory framework. It is clearly not the intention to sell old wine in new bags; it is really the intention to come to something new. One of these new things is the idea of differentiated supervision. What about precisely the possibility for the inspection to make statements about the extra quality that schools have managed to achieve on top of the regular situation? Differentiated supervision actually has two elements. First of all, this is based on the principle of earned trust. When a school performs below par, you need a very strict teacher. You will need a very strict inspection that is on top of it, but as a school does better, you can also give a school more confidence and more space. You could speak of more "deserved trust," not "blind trust," but "deserved trust." So it's not a single sausage. The inspection does not carry out its tasks in all schools exactly the same; this can be differentiated. That idea is also very much embraced by the schools themselves. There's enthusiasm for that. For this it is necessary to have an insight into where schools are at the bottom, but if you want to give schools more confidence as they do better, then it should also be a bit more towards the top. You have all been able to read the coalition agreement. In this document, the cabinet has taken on the ambition to extend the assessment of the inspection to the categories "good" and "excellent." We already work with the predicate "excellent." Schools with better quality standards also have less to account for than schools with poor performance. So the two of them are connected. I would like to say to the SP that, of course, it is more than just learning outcomes when it comes to how schools do things and the quality of schools. Then we also talk about questions like "is the care well in order?', "What about school security?" and "What is the educational environment in schools?" I really want to invite everyone here to take a look at the schools that have participated in qualifying for the "excellent" designation. Those are not only the schools with very high Cito scores; they are often schools that do a lot in the area of care. Our people who are involved in this work are also working with external experts; this is a kind of peer review interview, which are professionals who have an eye for it. I think that can only be an incentive for schools to keep working on a little better over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u68	I'm having second thoughts. The authors also said: this is not the subject of the bill. Nevertheless, I would like to give the Secretary of State one thing, because he devotes so many words to it. He says that the inspection also looks at such a school with confidence. And if we find out for a number of years that there is very good work there, we can let it celebrate a little more, and we're going to sit on top of it at schools that are not working properly. I understand. I think that's a good way to work. However, what my party is bumping into is that we are going to put that out immediately, that we are going to go out with the flag and say: look, this is an excellent school! Then you come into a field exactly as the AD enters with the words: there you get the best oil bulbs. I don't think we should want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u69	My proposal is to have this discussion in detail in the House of Representatives when we come to a proposal there in the run-up to the summer. A number of pilots are currently being carried out. On the basis of the results, different choices still have to be made. We maintain that the term "judgment" can only be used in the context of the supervisory role of the inspection, because only judgments can have legal effects, such as financial sanctions. I think that the pilots will produce a lot of material to give a different way for schools, parents and pupils an indication, validated by the inspection, of the achievement of the quality ambitions set out in the school plans. It is only on the basis of the conclusions of the pilots that I can assess how we are going to achieve the desired course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u70	Perhaps this is the time for the Secretary of State to answer my question a little more precisely. How does he assess the difference between the initiators, who say that it seems undesirable to them, indicating that having such statements made by the inspection actually requires a legal basis in line with this bill, and the Secretary of State, who says: well, I don't really think so? So it is not so much a question of whether we really want this differentiated judgment. That is indeed another debate, which must be held at another time. However, it is a question of whether such a judgment requires a legal basis. That seems to me to be an important point for tonight to assess the scope of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u71	Part of that will have to be demonstrated if we make a number of choices in the run-up to the summer. Then we know how to shape it and whether or not it requires a basis in the law. I now note that the legislative proposal before us sets out only one qualification legally, namely the qualification'very weak'. The "weak" qualification is not included in this bill, nor in the "basic quality" qualification. In other words, even now the inspection comes with judgments and findings that contain a qualification without any basis in the law. That is why we say: we do not know in advance whether a legal basis is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u72	I want to understand what we are voting on next week. The line is that the inspection says that schools do or do not comply with it, and that they only give the qualification "very weak" in certain cases, namely when there are major concerns on a number of points, and no more than that? Either they meet it, or they don't meet it, and in special cases it's "very weak." That, I believe, is the line of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u73	The same bill also includes the task of stimulating supervision for the inspection. Then too, it is good if the inspection is understandable and clear about what a school realizes on top of the adequacy requirements. In my view, it is quite alright to give a qualification in that. That's different from judgment. We need to look for qualifications which, on the one hand, are consistent with how schools feel about themselves and, on the other hand, are clear to parents and students. Let me be clear about one thing: expressing findings and qualifications on the realisation of things on top of the soundness requirements is not an end in itself. It is important for us if this ensures a culture of continuous improvement and if that raises awareness among parents and students to talk to the school about quality. If this helps, it's a good idea. If this is counterproductive, it's not a good idea. In this respect too, we really have to wait and see what comes out of the pilots. The Chamber has seen a mid-term review. There are two sides to this: a number of positive elements, but also a number of critical comments. I would very much prefer to wait for the debate on this in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u74	Secretary of State, may I ask you how much longer you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u75	I have two small points to make. The first point concerns appeals and objections. Mr Bruijn asked for that. There is no legal provision under which the participation council can force the competent authority to object and appeal. An opinion to the competent authority to object or appeal, of course, can. On Mrs Nooren's question, to what extent this leads to jurisdiction, I say that it would be very good if this were to become part of the legislative review. With this I have a nice little bridge to the last topic: the evaluation. It takes place on two levels. The first is: evaluate the adequacy requirements well. That can be a meaningful exercise, because it provides insight into how sound the requirements are. How sharp and meaningful are they? And how well can they be applied by the inspection? I suspect that before the summer recess we can come to the States General with an inventory of those requirements. Of course I will send it not only to the Lower House but also to the Upper Chamber. The draft law will enter into force on 1 June of the year following the year of its publication, i.e. 1 June 2017. We've made agreements on the evaluation of the bill. That will happen after five years. This will include the elements mentioned by various spokesmen. Have the standards of validity been hoarded? No, not in my eyes. There's gotta be talk about that all the time. You shouldn't be too light-hearted about that either. A number of spokesmen have asked to be always critical and careful about this. In response to Mrs Nooren, for example, I would like to say the following. The report of Platform Education2032 deals with the curriculum. If this leads to the adaptation of the curriculum and thus to the adaptation of the robustness requirements associated with the curriculum, then this is a good reason to look at it again. Because it would be really weird if they didn't run one-on-one. With this, I have answered all the questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u76	At the end of my speech, I asked whether the authors of the research frameworks developed felt that the inspection had done justice to the initiative legislative proposal. I said that I would put the same question to the government. Would the Secretary of State care to comment on this for a moment? The Secretary of State has undoubtedly been able to take note of the draft research framework as it stands. I have made a number of critical comments. Has that been done properly, or is there really still a great deal to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u77	In view of the discussion here and in view of the involvement of the initiators themselves in relation to the research frameworks, I believe that it would be wise for the inspection to take a closer look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u78	Mrs De Vries has asked me for a short suspension after this deadline. Is ten minutes enough? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u79	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs De Vries-Legge. I hope the Secretary of State is on his way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u80	Mr. Chairman. I must honestly say that I have had an interesting debate. Seriously. I've been listening to arguments over and over and they had nothing to do with party politics. It was just about: what do you think is good for education? If there's one person who can recognize that education affects your life, it's me, because if it wasn't for my high school teacher, I would never have been in politics. I'll tell you in advance. A number of things were important to us. If you look at what's going on in the world around us and then at the bill before us, what do these things mean to each other, especially when you notice that there's apparently different thinking? We have now noticed that "apparently different thinking" is not as big as we thought at first, but that perhaps more clarity is needed. That is why we have signed the motion that Mr Schalk is about to table. I will not discuss this motion further, but it is intended to make it clear. Property requirements are not a check-off list. I wholeheartedly agree with that, because it is often more likely to be the starting point for ensuring that something good happens in school. It's not a ticking list: as long as I have my list for bullying and for how I've arranged for participation, I'll do everything. A school rather sails with teachers who can teach very enthusiastically and therefore make sure that a young man or woman who normally has nothing to do with a subject suddenly becomes a very good student. Can you always measure that in learning outcomes? No, you can't always do that. Can you measure that in terms of "you're an excellent school"? No, you can't. For example, a school could be in an area with a....what did you call it in the old days? This is what we are talking about, and it is what we are trying to do. At least in my area, these schools are very common. There may be a student who doesn't get an 8 but a 6, who did it really well. We would therefore find it very wrong to rely on it alone. That is partly why we supported Mr Schalk's motion. I can also say that if this motion is tabled later and if all the people here have had their say, on the basis of what I have already heard, my group will advise that this initiative legislative proposal be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u81	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren. Oh, no, Mr Bruijn! Excuse me, Mr Bruijn. How can I miss you! The best horse in the stable! How is that possible? Jeeminee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u82	Well, Mr. Chairman, don't shoot right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u83	He likes to hear it, I hear it here. That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u84	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this comprehensive announcement. I hope everyone has listened carefully. I thank the proposers, who are not the proposers, as we have understood today The House of Representatives is the petitioner and the government for the comprehensive response and the inspiring debate. My group welcomes the fact that the nature of the inspection and monitoring of education is being revised and modernised, and that a very clear distinction is being made between, on the one hand, soundness and supervision on the basis of the legal requirements and, on the other hand, the promotion of quality. The inspection's own insights also play a role, but in particular the story of the school. The school's own insights are therefore central, as are the free parts of the school plan. The way in which this has been explained by the authors deserves great tribute and has also clarified very much for my group. It is important that Mr Bishop has said that meeting the requirements means good education. That must, of course, be maintained; we agree on that. So it's not like you have to meet both to give good education. The only prerequisites are good education. This also means that we must continue to look critically at the development of these requirements in the future, because they must ensure that education is good. Mindful Dijsselbloem also includes sufficient attention to review. In doing so, it is very important that review should not degenerate into perverse incentives by looking only at final levels. Mrs Gerkens was right to insist. If you do it in a modern way, you also include the initial levels and the socio-cultural background of populations. You can correct for that. The research that has been done in recent years and the various electoral programmes that have contributed to it have been important. In particular, the Ministry itself has carried out interesting research on this issue. I want to say that again. The proposers have indicated that it is important to periodically review the adequacy requirements in relation to their contribution to the quality of education. We need to let that get to us. My group supports this. A motion was adopted in the House of Representatives (33862, nr. 19), which generally calls for periodic reviews. There is therefore no time limit attached to this. The motion also asks to test for contemporary application, consistency and effectiveness. That motion was adopted, with the support of the VVD Group there. Now my group finds first of all a test on contemporary application, consistency and effectiveness not necessarily the same as a test on utility and necessity in relation to the contribution to educational quality. On the one hand, you can say that this is a semantic discussion. On the other hand, you can say: no, this is precisely at the heart of the legislative proposal, namely that the quality of education is central, and that is something other than application, consistency and effectiveness. Secondly, my group believes that a time limit may be agreed for the periodic test. Signals from the field have also led us to do so. If you generally agree to periodically check, it can also be every 100 years. That seems to us to be relatively little, and perhaps even too little. I say this in the direction of Mr Ganzevoort, in order to spell out that difference once again. Well, that's very gratuitous, isn't it? It seems reasonable for us to review the framework conditions once every four years. This is also obvious, also because we are now considering the possibility of reviewing the core targets once every eight years, i.e. the content. The cross-compliance review would therefore act as a mid-term review. My group has prepared a motion on this, which I would now like to table. The President shall: Mr Bruijn, Mr Pijlman, Mr Schalk, Mr Krikke, Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Kops proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the sectoral laws include a comprehensive set of robust requirements;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to ensure that, as a result of incident policy, the task of teaching is not changed repeatedly on a partial basis;]] [[Whereas, in the context of the proportionality test, the adequacy requirements should be considered more closely in relation to the contribution to educational quality;]] [[calls on the Government to exercise restraint in adding new requirements;]] [[calls on the Government to review the adequacy requirements once every four years in relation to the need to contribute to the quality of education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33862-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u85	I would like to leave it at that, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Bruijn. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u87	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State and the initiators have thanked us for our commitment and for our great knowledge about education. I think that's mutual. Their answers have contributed to strengthening the understanding of the added value of this bill. For my group, it has become crystal clear that it is important for the feasibility of the legislative proposal to clarify the validity requirements in terms of nature, scope and content. We also agree that we should not just talk about zero-one matters. We then fall back on things that are very easy to measure, such as language and mathematics, and we also consider the other aspects to be important. I believe that the added value of the legislative proposal remains and remains a sharp distinction between the evaluating and stimulating tasks of the inspection and, as a consequence, a clarification of the adequacy requirements and other quality requirements. For my group it has also become clear that the initiators, who speak on behalf of the House of Representatives, and the Secretary of State, do not want to deal lightly with the addition of new requirements. This also includes the periodic evaluation of the adequacy requirements and the test proposed by Mr Bruijn to help shape them. We welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that an updated overview will be made available in the short term and that the workability of the current robustness requirements will be considered critically. That's part of the job if you're gonna value it very much. We support Mr Schalk's motion to translate this sharply into a research framework. This will have to take place in the end, because it will become the working document on which the education inspection will go. We understand from the Secretary of State that the education inspector will be able to do so in the near future. The PvdA Group agrees with the government and the initiators that this bill contributes to continuous work on the quality of education. Ultimately, it is about encouraging school leaders, teachers and school boards to work on good education. A lively school plan is a basis for this; not just a document that is ticked off, but a document that is worn and a guide to practice. The debate on whether a school is very weak would be more valuable if other qualifications were further referred to as findings rather than judgements. By using the term "judgement" for other qualifications, you get the debate in this Chamber about what its value is. There is no legal basis for this now. We look forward to the exchange of views with the Secretary of State when he has a proposal for how he will give it up. I will give my group a positive opinion on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u88	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and the Secretary of State for their reply. I have already said that I think this bill is a good initiative. I have looked with pleasure at the enthusiasm of the authors, which I had already noted in the explanatory statement, because it was quite a firm statement of reasons. I'm very happy to see there's so much passion in the bill. All the questions that have been asked, including by other groups, have been adequately answered by my group. A good point is that the requirements of this bill are now being removed from the drawer, where I believe they had a dormant existence, along with the school plan. They're being brushed up and held against the light. That's a nice side effect of this law. I'm really glad this is happening right now. I am also pleased that the proposers have made a firm statement, namely that, in their view, differentiated supervision needs a legal basis, even though they have rightly said that this discussion should not be included in the present proposal. I think it makes sense for them to have said that. If this bill is adopted, the conclusion is that the inspection has gone too far in recent years and that this proliferation of its own directions must be contained. Then it does not seem illogical to me either if there is a clear legal basis for differentiated supervision, if one so wishes. If initiatives are possible in the form of motions, I will support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u89	Madam President. I, too, would like to thank the authors and the Secretary of State for the responses and the answers that have been given. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the fine, substantive debate. It is wonderful to work another day in education. As Mrs De Vries-Legge has just said, we are obviously looking for the right thing to do in education. It is delicious when that sounds like that in the debate. It is good that the Secretary of State has said that there will be a review of the adequacy requirements in the short term. He'll even try to do that before the summer. That was a very important part of this debate. It is good to hear that this is going to happen in the short term. It has undoubtedly been understood that in the course of this debate I had some concern about future practice. We have seen that the inspection anticipated the bill by embracing it in the descriptions, as I just said. I think that's how it happened. In the final analysis, that requires a lot more. The aim of the legislative proposal, which is to break up the monitoring and stimulating tasks, is unfortunately not yet successful in the research framework that is being proposed. Here comes the debate on differentiated judgements. I think it is very good that the authors and the Secretary of State have stressed that this bill is absolutely not about that. I think that everyone in this Chamber is well aware that the words and thoughts that fit them can very easily sneak into the reviews or the ratings of the inspection. Indeed, they are not of those judgments. The 2017 research framework submitted for consultation embraces the legislative proposal, but the impact is not yet entirely appropriate. I think it is very important that the legislative proposal states that the framework of research will ultimately be established by the government. The applicants are no longer able to move in that direction. I have prepared a motion for a resolution on this matter, which is addressed to the government. We want to make a clear distinction between checking and stimulating and how it works in practice. During an interrupting debate, Mrs De Vries-Legge said: if the law is there, then that is the guiding framework. I think we should hold on to that. To stimulate that and give extra body I submit the next motion. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Bikker, Mr Bruijn, Mr De Vries-Leggedoor, Mr Pijlman and Mr Nooren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposal for an initiative makes a clear distinction between the monitoring function and the stimulating role of the education inspection and that this distinction also affects the qualifications given by the education inspection to education;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the distinction between judgements and findings for all those involved in education is easily known both in the explanatory notes on the research frameworks and in the presentation, elaboration and accountability of standards;]] [[calls on the Government also to ensure, when establishing the research frameworks, that the distinction between control and incentive is continued in the sense that judgements are based solely on whether or not they comply with legal requirements, and not on its own understandings of the inspection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33862-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u90	I hope that this motion will also be judged by the authors, who may be able to give an extra push towards the Secretary of State. I am also curious to hear the Secretary of State's opinion on this. I can say that this debate will lead me to present this bill with a positive opinion to the groups of the SGP and of the Christian Union, on behalf of whom I may speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u91	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the President, who held this debate on National Complimentary Day. She makes it very easy for us to respond to that today. It's a day when we haven't only seen an extraordinary instinct behind the table, towards the kleeffe. We have also seen the shared intention and the shared interest of education in the debates we have had with each other. As far as my group is concerned, many questions have been clarified. To stay in the style of the subject: if we look at this bill from the judgmental perspective, it certainly has a sufficient one. However, in the context of the incentive opinion, we would like to clarify or clarify two points. The first concerns the publication of the opinion on the incentive part. I cannot escape the impression that there is a progressive understanding between the original explanatory statement following the report of the Council of State on page 19, that only the first part is made public and the presentation given tonight, namely the observation that both parts are being made public. In order to underline that progressive insight, I ask for a commitment from the government. I ask her to confirm that both reports are intended to be public. As far as we are concerned, if the government can promise to do so, this moving insight is also marked. The second point concerns differentiated supervision or judgements. There is a lot of discussion about whether or not you want to. That discussion will certainly come back, but it is not here. As far as we are concerned, however, there must be clarity about differentiated judgements and the judging part of the inspection work must not be without a legal basis. We've talked about that before. The question is whether the government wishes to declare explicitly and in that sense also undertake to maintain the sharp distinction between judgements that will be limited to weak, sufficient or insufficient.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I ask the government to say that such terms are not used in the judgment framework and that in the case of a judgment and that may be the next step, the government does not take steps in the development of a judgment framework in which these terms are used without providing it with a legal basis and submit it to the Chamber in that sense. If the government can promise that too, then our worries will be taken away and we'll go home happily.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u92	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the coalition of principle, as I must say, for the fine answer, the dearest colleagues. This coalition doesn't have to last that long! We've pretty much had it by now. The good thing about this proposal is that the adequacy requirements are reworded. That's a very important yield. Mr Bishop has made it clear that they are readable, concise and clear, so that they give everyone a grip. In this way, they not only provide guidance to the schools, the school boards and to us, but also, of course, to the inspection. The explanatory statement makes a very positive statement on the role of the inspection. The inspection's working on that change. She is proactive and has already formulated a research framework, but I think Mr Schalk has made it quite clear what is still lacking. The research framework has 75 pages and the language is rather lubberian. We doubt that this will lead to clarity. In response to a question from Mr Schalk, the Secretary of State said that the inspection should take a closer look at it. I honestly think that's not enough; it's just how you interpret it. Today, the deadline for participation ends, but I think that after this debate we can all agree that this research framework still needs a great deal of innovation. There's nothing wrong with that either. It was a preliminary report. Everyone has to learn, especially on this subject, but there is still a lot to be done. The views of the initiators and the State Secretary on the differentiated monitoring or judgements vary widely. In fact, the initiators and the Secretary of State say something very different, at least that's how I hear it. At the same time, I believe that the words 'judgement' and 'qualification' have also been mixed up in this debate. Mrs. Nooren just spoke of "findings." Maybe there's a solution in there, too. I agree with the Secretary of State that we should give the pilots every opportunity and that we should not say in advance what the outcome is. When I put my ear to listen in the field, however, I hear that differentiated supervision is fine but differentiated judgments are not. Differentiated judgments always have legal effects. They must therefore also be laid down in the law. In my opinion, that is the only way, but I'd like to hear it if I'm wrong. At first I talked about the new school plan and what that means in the context of horizontal accountability. There was an interruption debate on the inspection reports. These reports will always have to be public, whether it is about judgment or the stimulating role of inspection, otherwise the horizontal dialogue will not be established. In view of what is now stated in the school plan and its function, I would like to ask you specifically to consider the new role it plays in the evaluation of the law. I think this is an important learning process. Two motions have been tabled, one motion from the VVD and one motion from the SGP. Both motions have been signed by us. I can already say that we will be voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u93	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). If you want five to ten minutes suspended, you can. We have another debate after this, so ten minutes is the maximum. At 8:55, everyone has to be back inside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u94	I'm reopening the meeting. I call Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u95	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak in the second term. This time I can do the same on behalf of my colleagues Van Meenen and Rog. We are very grateful to the Chamber for its reactions to the initiative proposal, both in the first and in the second term, and for its appreciation. One Member noted that it had found a good debate, because the political load was more or less absent. What are we talking about? We're talking about good education. We are pleased that this discussion could also take place here. That is the key question. How do we guarantee the high quality of education in the Netherlands in some situations? What instruments do we have available for this purpose and what instruments does the inspection have available for that purpose? We welcome the fact that the two-track policy set out in this law, namely, on the one hand, the strict application of adequate requirements and, on the other hand, the search for dialogue, the stimulating dialogue in order to tap into the power of the educational field itself in order to promote and ensure quality, is widely supported in this way. The first line, that of the adequacy requirements, leads to verification, leads to an assessment. In this law there are three possible judgments: sufficient, inadequate, very weak. This bill doesn't offer any more flavor. It is also about dialogue, the stimulating conversation. This should not lead to an increase in reporting obligations, to more documents, to another folder in the list. No, that's a crossing station. It's about the conversation. We are currently abstaining from an opinion on a concept research framework of 76 pages. That may be enough. That stimulating conversation, that critical questioning, does not lead to a judgment, because that cannot be done. That leads to findings. That's what we call it in the bill. These findings may be followed up by recommendations, but it is up to the school to work on them on the basis of its own vision, expressed in the school plan. In this way, we believe that you will receive the best guarantee of the quality that is constantly needed in education. You don't have to get better to be sick. If that awareness is reflected in the education system in many schools, that is fortunately already the case, then this presupposes that there is room, that the professionals, the school management and the teachers can work with it and that they get the opportunity, from their drive, to guide young people on their way to a job or on their way from growth to adulthood. I would now like to address two issues raised by Mr Ganzevoort. In the first term, in the event of interruption, he appointed the point of learning results in terms of mathematics or language. That seems to be a limitation, but to avoid misunderstandings that is absolutely not the intention. The special position of the learning outcomes in terms of mathematics and language should be seen in relation to the apprenticeship follow-up system. In this context, it does not look at tests of all kinds of other subjects, but specifically at those of mathematics and language. The second issue was raised in the second period. Then it was about the disclosure of both reports. There is, in a sense, a progressive insight in this. That has rightly been said, because the second letter of amendment restores the phrase on this subject. Initially, the idea was to work with two reports. We started with that, but in the conversation we began to wonder why we wanted to make two reports of it, the formal part about the adequacy requirements publicly and the part about the findings not publicly. In the end, after a discussion, the step was taken, which was set out in the second letter of amendment, to make it one public report, but with an assessment aspect and a finding aspect. We must choose the wording carefully in this respect. That was also a process of rehab. By consistently speaking speaking of assessments, the first part of the report, and of findings, the second part, we, in our view, serve education and possibly promote the quality of that education. The motions are addressed to the government. I am abstaining from commenting on this, partly on behalf of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u96	Mr. Chairman. I leave Mr Bruijn's motion to the House. On the subject of restraint, I refer to what I said in the previous term. It seems to me to be a good addition to a number of other aspects in addition to their usefulness and necessity. As far as Mr Schalk's motion is concerned, I shall also leave it to the Chamber, although my neighbour mentioned that the first operative part refers to judgments and assessments. I think that Mr Schalk is referring to judgments and findings in this respect. In any case, that is the terminology that is most consistent with the initiators' legislative proposal. Mr Ganzevoort asked a question about the reports. They're both public. Mr Pijlman asks that we take a very close look at it again. There was some understatement in that phrase, but I'll ask the inspection to take another look at it. Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Pijlman's question was whether I can indicate in advance what the frameworks are going to be like, given the differentiated supervision, but we do not know that yet. On the basis of the results of the pilot, I will discuss with the Minister the best way to promote quality development. Depending on this, we will assess whether and if so, how we should incorporate this into legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u97	I thank the Secretary of State for the correction. Of course, I mean judgments and findings. Indeed, we must choose the right words. That's what I called for myself. Thank you for that. Perhaps now it will be much easier for the Secretary of State to say: Judgement Chamber, I fully agree with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u98	My question was not so much about defining the frameworks now. I was much more concerned with clarity. Take the term "excellent" and use the differentiated judgements. At present, this can only be done within the second part of the inspection report, namely when it comes to advice as an incentive. If the government intends to place this in the first part, it can only do so with a legal basis. That was my question about the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u99	I can come a long way with that. Indeed, you can already see that the predicate "excellent" is taken into account in stimulating supervision. If, on top of the assessments based on the robustness requirements, other findings come along this line, this might not require any approximation in the legislation. But if you're gonna put heavier things on it, if it's gonna get legal effects in that sense, it's a different story. That is really something we need to look at in the coming months. I can tell Mr Schalk that I not only leave the judgment to the Chamber but also agree with him. I also agree with Mr Pijlman, who asked for the school plan to be explicitly included in the evaluation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u100	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? I see Mr Bruijn, Mr Kops and Mr Ganzevoort nodding. Then that's the case. I propose to vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-12.u101	The text of the motions is somewhat inadequate, in the sense that in Mr Schalk's motion the word 'values' must be 'findings'. As far as possible, we can change that, so that next week we can vote on 'judgments' and 'findings'.
