ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had a general discussion with the Minister for Security and Justice, who is responsible for the police. In my input, the question was: how are our agents? I asked that question for a reason, as is shown by an article in De Telegraaf last Friday. I'd like to ask the Minister to ask that question every day. We are in the process of reorganising the police, while at the same time facing an urgent threat of terrorism and radicalisation. Last Friday, an article about an elite police unit appeared in the newspaper. This unit is entrusted with a very important task, namely to monitor and secure the members of the Royal House, of persons who are directly threatened and institutions and services that are directly threatened. These people must be guarded so that they can function undisturbed and safe in a free country like the Netherlands. That cannot be guaranteed when there is unrest in such an elite police service. The article refers to a culture of fear, workload and lack of listening. It is a diseased culture that we cannot accept when threat is urgent and immediate. I quote one of the members of that unit: "If you have to secure a member of the Royal House for a day, it takes a lot of you mentally. If, after a few days, you indicate that it is too much, chefs will not listen." It can't be. Then such a person feels compelled to call in sick. Chiefs who don't listen can't be chief. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. This wasn't the first time, by the way. We have previously had the same type of complaints about overload, workload and underemployment from the Special Intervention Service. Before that, they were members of the Royal Marechaussee at Schiphol. There was a good response to that. At the DSI, the chief of police, Erik Akerboom, would talk to the people. I sincerely believe that all those involved are actually listening and trying to find a solution. However, this is taking too long. I would very much like to hear from the Minister what he is going to do to restore stability and harmony, so that these crucial services can function in a professional way. In short, what is the Minister going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Marcouch for giving me the opportunity to respond. First of all, let me say that I have a great deal of appreciation and respect for the staff of the Guard and Secure Service, who, as Mr Marcouch rightly pointed out, have to do their job under high pressure in this difficult time. In response to the signals in De Telegraaf, I asked the police chief of the National Unit to talk to the staff of this department about the culture and the workload. These talks are not only limited to the employees, but will also take place with the administration, the central confidant, the works council of the National Unity and the trade union. This is important because some of the signals were known, but some of them are also new. These are questions for clarification and a firm approach, as Mr Marcouch rightly points out. The starting point is, of course, that trust between the people themselves, but also between the people and the administration, should simply be good, because these people must be able to do their very important work at the highest level, under the most difficult conditions. So it's being handled firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	It is good to hear that the Minister wants to take a firm approach to this. I would like to say that the context in which these people, especially these special units, function, is not new. No one will have noticed that there is a threat of terrorism at the highest level and that we are Presidents of the European Union. There's a lot to do. There are many objects and people who are threatened and therefore also need to be protected and guarded. By definition, this means that the workload is increasing. I am a bit upset that we are constantly reactive and do not proactively ensure that these people can do their job properly and do not have to call in sick because their chef does not listen. I would like more urgency from the Minister. I would also like to know when the Minister informs the Chamber of what measures have been taken and how we are going to ensure that we do not have to know every time through the media that something is going on. I find the fact that these people need the media to send signals worrying. I would like that internal culture to improve in such a way that this is not necessary and those people can simply do their job in a healthy way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	I fully agree with Mr Marcouch. That is also the starting point. It should not be the case that people feel compelled to go to the media to address their problems. That is precisely why I want to know from the National Unity why this happened and whether people did indeed feel that they could not go to their own department and therefore apparently not to a trusted person, the works council or possibly to the trade union. Those signals have not therefore been sent to the people who are talking about them, or not enough has been done with them. That is why I consider Mr Marcouch's question to be relevant. I have asked the chief of the National Unity, who has recently taken office and is therefore new, to report to me on this. Immediately thereafter, as Mr Marcouch asks, I will inform the Chamber as I did with the DSI. In fact, the situation was different from that here, because there turned out to be a longer-term labour dispute there and it turned out to be a concern that did not exist with the whole service, but with part of it. That does not mean that that concern should not be taken away. Mr Marcouch rightly pointed that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	Within what time period will you inform the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	That depends on when the conversations are over. Of course, I don't know in advance. As soon as the calls are complete, I'll inform the Chamber. I expect that will be at least before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Marcouch has a procedural remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	I would very much like to know that at least for the purposes of dealing with the Spring Note, because when we talk about working pressure, a shortage of capacity and so on, it seems to me, especially in these specific services, that we are involved in dealing with the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	I understand that question. I'll do my best to get that done. I note the following about this particular case. Mr Marcouch also knows that these people operate at a very high level. Their education is very high. At the moment there are 30 people in training who will thus contribute to reducing the workload, but of course we cannot in any way ensure that suddenly there are 60 for the simple reason that we have to train these people very carefully. They also only get access to the State Security and Security Service if they succeed in training. That's not automatism. We all realise that we face a difficult challenge to be able to reduce these people's workload quickly during this particular period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you.
