ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week thousands of parents were freaked out, because an envelope from the Tax Administration fell on the doormat with a post-tax of up to 100 to thousands of euros because of the childcare allowance. Parents with young children who had received child care allowance throughout 2014 had to repay this plus a fine, although the children simply went to child care and there was also a right to child care allowance. How is this possible? Let's be honest. This is not the first time that there have been problems with the childcare allowance. It looks like a household of Jan Steen at the Tax Office, with year after year error on error, even after warnings to this minister. Honestly, it looks like the government's going after it a little bit. It's time these mistakes stopped. Parents should be able to rely on the calculation of the childcare allowance to be correct. Parents should not find faulty back taxes on their doormat and parents should not be saddled with chaos at the Tax Office. That's why I have the following questions. How is it possible that thousands of parents have received an unjustified deduction from the childcare allowance for 2014? When and how is the Minister going to clean up the mess with the childcare allowance? Does the Minister guarantee that this will be the last misfit with the child care allowance at the Tax Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it is incredibly annoying and for some people a great shock when such a post-tax attack comes in that turns out to be wrong. The first question is therefore understandable: how is this possible? The Chamber knows that anyone who received an advance on the childcare allowance in 2014 will then receive a final decision. Things went wrong with that. What went wrong? There seems to be an error in the software that provides daycare and childcare facilities with information to the Tax Administration, which in some cases has wrongly assumed that childcare has been used. For example, someone had their children at day care all year round, while the impression had arisen that this was only for four months or eight months. Then you can get a big post-tax, and that's extremely annoying. It's important that the IRS is working on it. The parent organisation is talking to the childcare organisations to see what happened to that software. The Tax Administration has on its website that this is going on and that, if this is going on, you have to object immediately so that things stop. The Tax Administration has indicated, with priority and where necessary with extra people looking at this, so that people are quickly out of uncertainty. Can I guarantee that this will never happen again in the future? No, I can't guarantee that, but there are a lot of post-taxes every year for a reason. After all, you have to indicate how much you think you're going to make and how many hours of childcare you think you're going to use. That depends on a lot of things. It's almost a miracle that there are sometimes no post-taxes. That's a system that sucks to a lot of parents. That is why we also want to go to a system where it is up to the childcare institution to arrange it with the Tax Office, so that parents know in advance where they are going when they take their children to day care. This case is very unfortunate. I also hope that thanks to your question more parents will be aware that, if they have received a foreign post-tax charge, they will be able to go to the Tax Office site to object.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	It is very annoying indeed. People are freaking out. Some have to pay back up to €11,000. The Minister is now saying that they should object, but it cannot be the intention that mistakes should be made with the government, which then has to solve the parents themselves. If thousands of parents have to object, it will be a huge bureaucratic burden. Isn't it time that this minister, in addition to expressing fine words here and in addition to giving free sympathy, also called in internally to the Tax Administration how this could have happened again? After all, it's not the first time. We also discussed this last year in January. Then it was about problems in 2011, 2012 and 2013. This is about 2014. The new system will not enter into force until 2018, so it seems that we will be facing this kind of problem for four years to come. That's not supposed to happen, is it? When is the Minister going to intervene and make sure that the Tax Office gets its act together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	I think it is a good thing to be very critical of the way in which the Tax Office works, but if it is true that the Tax Office has received wrong information from the childcare institutions, there are childcare institutions who have communicated this with their parents themselves and who have admitted that a mistake has been made in their administration, then I do not think it is fair to rub it on the Tax Office alone. The IRS responded to this. Parents got into trouble. They're freaked out by that post-levy. That is why it is on the website of the Tax Administration and that is why those objections are also dealt with as a matter of priority. But the Tax Administration is also not always in a position to verify whether or not data is correct. After all, the Tax Administration should consider how the use in 2014 can be based on the information provided by childcare institutions. It is important that there is a proper response now. It's important that parents get out of the uncertainty quickly. It is important that they know that they no longer have any trouble with any fines and the whole subsequent recovery if they object. I very much agree with Mrs Siderius that there is a lot to improve in the way our surcharge system works. We have proposals for how this works in the childcare allowance, but we would like to prepare them carefully, also to avoid repeating past mistakes. In this case, I fear that the problem, as it now appears, is mainly related to the software used to transmit information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's right. That's the tax administration's ICT system. The Minister now blames the childcare institutions. I think that's really crazy. The minister has a wrong system there at the IRS. Last year we had a very nice report here in the Chamber on all the problems with ICT in the government and now the Minister is pointing the finger at the childcare sector! I think that's really weird. If the government sends thousands of parents such a letter, then the minister should think about where that problem is. It's not in the daycare centers. Moreover, I regret that the Minister says: the conclusion is that we will soon be introducing a new system in four years' time; then we will see if we can resolve this. The Minister should now put his fist on the table, address his colleague, Mr Wiebes, for a moment and ensure that the problems are resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	Of course, it could be that Mrs Siderius is right and that the mistake was made by the Tax Administration. The indications I have received so far do not indicate that. They point to a problem in the administration systems of the childcare institutions themselves. It may not be. Childcare institutions themselves have communicated to parents that a mistake has been made there. For me, it does not matter in that sense that parents are frightened if they are wrongly confronted with it and that they should be helped as soon as possible. That's what we focus our energy on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	Firstly, I am glad that there are still blue envelopes, because almost Secretary of State Wiebes had done all this electronically, so that five of the six parents had not even received the bill. But if there is a mistake in one childcare institution, it is the childcare institution that is responsible. If it happens at dozens, something's wrong with the IRS. It is not for nothing that the Minister says here: it now appears. That means there's no definitive information. I have two questions for the Minister. Would he like to send a letter to the Chamber together with the Secretary of State for Finance within a week about what exactly is going on? Will he investigate whether it is possible to correct the error on the part of the Tax Office, that not all of these people with thousands of people at the same time should object individually and appeal, and that they may not be fined individually, but from this month on, the surcharge that is being recovered will be offset against this month's child care allowance, which they will not receive in order to ensure that that problem does not arise? Can we get that letter in a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	That would assume that this would prevent problems, but if you now, on an individual basis, reintegrate the 89,000 parents who have received a post-tax, you might cause much bigger problems. I am 100% sure that Mr Omtzigt does not want that. However, I can assure you that the Tax Administration is on top of it and that, if it turns out that the error is indeed on the government's side, we will obviously share it with the Chamber and we will provide a solution. The first priority is that we now communicate well with the parents and react quickly if something is going on. Secondly, the parent organisation BOinK is now in conversation with the sector to try to find out what happened in the software of the childcare institutions, and to prevent it from happening more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr Omtzigt, you are only allowed if a question has not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yes, the first question has not been answered, namely: can there be a letter within a week? The minister says and passerby says it's 89,000 households. There's a lot of them. So could it be there in a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	So the answer is no. I would have answered that question, because the request was a letter with an investigation, including all the 89,000 people. However, it is not 89 000 errors, but people who have received a post-tax. This has to do with the current system, in which you get an advance based on a number of estimates of usage, hours and earnings. Life changes, which means that people take less or more hours and so very often a post-levy comes to the advantage or disadvantage of the parent. Now you would make the problem worse, by putting an additional calculation on all those people, and then you will have to rely on the data from the childcare institutions themselves. So it has no added value to send a letter about it within a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	A lot of people are unnecessarily burdened with problems they haven't asked for. The Minister says that childcare institutions have already communicated with parents that mistakes have been made. So the Minister and the Tax Office can know which people they are talking about. I would therefore like to receive that letter from the Minister, in which he makes an extreme effort to pick out the people who are concerned, so that they do not have to go through the objection procedure and thus fix the errors automatically. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	Still, just a little bit of the system. People apply for an advance based on the expected use of childcare. At the end of this year there will be a final decision based on what you have consumed and what your merits are. The Tax Office checks this on the basis of the declaration of the childcare institution. It always happens. That is also the most reliable way to normally check whether what you expected as a parent has also been reduced by a childcare institution. This means that the Tax Administration cannot now know in which cases a child care institution's statement of actual use is correct or incorrect. If the Tax Office has data showing that Mr Bashir has been using for four months, he cannot know whether that is true. That is why I said to Mr Omtzigt that unfortunately this is not the solution. The solution is that as parents, if you have received a post-tax that does not match the facts and the use, you object. That is not complicated; on the site you are taken step by step. That is the fastest and most efficient way of indicating that something has not gone well. The Tax Administration is ready to ensure that that objection is dealt with very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	If we do it in a different way, there will be mistakes that will not benefit people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you.
