ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u1	I would like to welcome you all, in particular the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and her staff. We have three speakers who will speak for two minutes each. The first speaker is Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. Chairman. The conduct of war crimes is reprehensible, especially if those crimes are committed with Dutch weapons. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Saudi Arabia is engaged in cluster munitions and serious war crimes in Yemen, as described, inter alia, in UN reports and human rights organisations;]] [[calls on the Government, as long as Saudi Arabia continues to violate the law of war in Yemen, to establish a national authorisation stop for the export and transit of military equipment to Saudi Arabia and to advocate the adoption of this policy at EU level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Government of Israel expects any means of violence to be used exclusively in accordance with international law;]] [[Whereas service dogs from the Netherlands are deployed by the Israeli army in violation of international law;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that service dogs from the Netherlands are no longer deployed by the Israeli army in violation of international law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-271]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-272]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me briefly explain why my group has gladly signed the motion for a resolution by the SP, or rather with sadness, because of course the reason for this is very sad. In November, the two of us, in my view, tabled a motion with other political groups, calling for an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia, but that motion did not make it. In my view, it is important that it succeeds now, because, as Mr Van Dijk has already said, that country is doing a great deal of wrongdoing in Yemen. These abuses are well documented by NGOs and the UN. There's got to be a signal on abuses. It is therefore irresponsible to continue the individual assessment of arms exports, of exports of strategic goods and exports of goods for dual use to Saudi Arabia. That's not a signal. The signal is: at the moment, because of this obvious reason and because of what is happening in Yemen, we cannot export anymore. Looking at the European criteria for arms exports, this is undoubtedly important and clear: serious human rights violations, risks to peace and security in the region and the difficult attitude of Saudi Arabia, criteria 2, 4 and 6. In addition, compared with last year, the European Parliament also took a very clear position and in a resolution called for a European arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. That means the cabinet can't stay on its hands. I ask Minister Ploumen how the cabinet, in its role as President of the European Union, will implement the European Parliament's resolution, because the Netherlands has an important role to play, and to work with Mrs Mogherini to ensure that all European Member States make the same move on the basis of these European criteria. Will the cabinet work along this line and along the line of Mr Van Dijk's and myself's motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u4	Mr. Chairman. We have generally discussed the situation in Saudi Arabia and the alleged war crimes committed by Saudi Arabia in Yemen. On behalf of my group, I have said that under these circumstances it is indeed unacceptable that weapons should go that way. Mr Van Dijk then announced that he wanted to record this in a VAO. I think it would be better if I did so in my own words on behalf of my own party. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Saudi Arabia is guilty of violations of humanitarian war law in Yemen, as described, inter alia, in the UN Panel of Experts on Yemen's report of 22 January last.;]] [[Considering that the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia is unabated, that the number of executions has recently increased significantly and that the position of human rights defenders remains extremely worrying;]] [[Whereas the European Common Position (EUGS) on arms exports contains clear criteria prohibiting arms exports where there is a risk of human rights violations (criterion 2), the disruption of peace and security in the region (criterion 4) and a lack of respect for international law (criterion 6);]] [[Whereas the European Parliament on 25 February last. adopted a resolution calling on the High Representative Mogherini to launch an initiative to establish a European arms embargo against Saudi Arabia;]] [[Calls on the Government, on the basis of the EU criteria, to strictly apply arms export policy and, therefore, as long as there is a continuing risk of military and dual-use goods being used for human rights violations and humanitarian war law, not to authorise these goods to Saudi Arabia;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the ambitions set out in the Wapens and Principles initiative paper for a harmonised European arms export policy, to call upon other Member States and encourage the same rigorous review of the EU criteria for arms exports to Saudi Arabia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Servaes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-273]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u5	Can Mr Servaes indicate the difference between the cabinet's position and his motion? I'm gonna look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u6	I do not believe that Mr Sjoerdsma himself was present at the general discussion. There seemed to be semantic confusion between a number of participants in that consultation about the interpretation of the criteria, the application of the criteria and so on. In this context and taking advantage of the opportunity given to me by Mr Van Dijk, I thought it best to write again very carefully how the PvdA Group thinks it works. I don't think there's a word of Spanish in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u7	Mr Sjoerdsma has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u8	It was a long motion, but it didn't contain a word of Spanish. That's right, but this wasn't really an answer to my question. It is a clarification of the position of the PvdA group, but motions often serve to persuade the cabinet to take a different position than the position already chosen by the cabinet itself. I wonder, however, for my own position on the motion, where the difference is now between what Mr Servaes wants and what the cabinet wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u9	My answer to that can be quite simple. If the cabinet supports this motion and has no difference between it, I am extremely satisfied. In any case, the motion is extremely clear. As long as the current situation continues in Saudi Arabia itself and in Yemen, and you can therefore assume, on the basis of the same criteria as Mr Sjoerdsma cited, that there is a risk of the violations continuing, that these goods should not be exported to Saudi Arabia. I do not know exactly what else the colleague from D66 wants to get on the table, but the motion seems to me to be quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u10	In the debate, Mr Servaes made a very clear plea for an export ban on arms from the Netherlands to Saudi Arabia. That was clear language. The SP is advocating that, too. I said at the time that I would table a motion to that effect. Now we're here today. I filed my motion. Mr Servaes has tabled his own motion with his own words. Is that now the new strategy of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u11	My party's been around 70 years. It has always been our strategy to choose our own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u12	This gives rise to a follow-up question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u13	The point is, of course, that my motion is crystal clear: an export ban on arms from the Netherlands to Saudi Arabia. Can Mr Servaes support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u14	I would then have to take up Mr Van Dijk's motion, but no weapons is not weapons. So I don't quite know where the difference is. I referred to it in the debate as a 'de facto export stop'. I don't feel like going through all kinds of legal channels. "De facto" means that you apply it in practice. That's what we'll hold the cabinet to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u15	Mr Teeven is not on the list of speakers, but one question may be. Go ahead, Mr. Bitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u16	I'm sure you'll like one interruption, Mr. President. I ask Mr Servaes whether what he proposes with his motion for a resolution is not simply in line with the strict policy that both foreign ministers are already pursuing at the moment and which we have discussed in general consultation. Is that what he's trying to capture? That's how I don't understand his motion, actually, exactly according to what the cabinet is doing at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u17	Now that there's so many questions, let's get this straight. We have heard from the cabinet that, unlike some European countries, the Netherlands is indeed very strict, i.e. France with an export of 2.7 billion to Saudi Arabia. However, the figure is still 1.5 million. You could say that's nothing compared to 2.7 billion, but it's still 1.5 million. The Minister has mentioned one example of which you can say: do you have to weigh it now? That was about getting fire-resistant suits or something. You can't use that to commit war crimes in Yemen. We agree on that. However, it seems extremely relevant, also in view of today's debate, to establish the strict line on paper once and for all. I am referring to the line of no export at all in the direction of military or dual-use goods, which can be used either for human rights violations or for war crimes in Yemen, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u18	Mr Teeven still has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u19	It is not entirely clear to me, Mr President, so I would like to ask Mr Servaes one more question on this point. The line set out by the Foreign Minister in general consultation is that he does want to look at the type of goods and the place where those goods end up. Sometimes these can be goods that absolutely cannot be used for war crimes or human rights violations. Then it is still possible to export. Is that a line that Mr Servaes' group supports?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u20	Of course, this motion can only work in the future. In the debate we looked back on the export of not even the previous year, but the previous year. The current war in Yemen was not yet under way. I described those circumstances in the motion. I made a very clear appeal to the Cabinet. I am only concerned, in the future, with checking with you whether the cabinet adheres to the implementation of the motion. But I'm totally assuming that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u21	Mr. Chairman. I would like to highlight the various responsibilities of the Foreign Minister and myself as Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Minister. I am standing here as myself, but I am also standing here on behalf of the Foreign Minister. I'd like to focus on the procedure. Before deciding on a licence application for arms exports, I would ask for foreign policy advice from the Foreign Minister. They are really very different responsibilities. It has never occurred in recent history that I have not taken that advice. When I talk about foreign policy aspects of licensing, I do so as a substitute for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If I speak of the rest of what is on the table here, I speak as myself. Normally this is not such a point, but I think we should be clear about the situation. Three motions have been tabled, but I would like to begin by briefly explaining the problem of arms exports to Saudi Arabia. After that, I will quickly explain the motions that have been tabled. Over the past year, the Netherlands has expressed concern about the serious conflict in Yemen in the EU Council framework for a restrictive arms export policy vis-à-vis Saudi Arabia. That's what we keep doing. I say to Mr Sjoerdsma: we already did that as a Member State. Now, as President of the EU, we will work together with the HR to obtain support for the resolution adopted in the European Parliament. That resolution contributes to a more restrictive arms export policy of the EU Member States. I think we all agree that this would be good. As far as the feasibility of this resolution is concerned, such an EU embargo can only be established by consensus decision-making. I can see Mr Sjoerdsma looking printed. We have already heard from the EEAS that certainly not all Member States will support such an initiative. Other Member States still have very important interests in arms exports to Saudi Arabia. The Netherlands is a small player, with 0.07%. In the UK, for example, it is also widely debated. We will work with the HR to do this. This is a brief introduction and to answer Mr Sjoerdsma's question. I now come to the three motions. I do not recommend the adoption of the Jasper van Dijk/Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 271. In the AO, Mr Koenders indicated that the Netherlands is already very restrictive, and rightly so, when it comes to granting arms export licences to Saudi Arabia. Since the intervention in Yemen, this policy has become even more restrictive. We have already rejected 12 applications, including for tyres for combat aircraft, parts for armoured vehicles and parts for rockets. But the Netherlands is not in favour of a national arms embargo. We want the export control to be based on custom-made measures, so as to be able to approve licence applications for exports to Saudi Arabia of, for example, protective suits against and for the detection of chemical attacks if all requirements are met. That's why I want to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u22	That leads to a question from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u23	Indeed, Mr President, this reply is in direct contradiction to what Minister Ploumen said shortly before. Then she said to look at the European Parliament resolution calling for an arms embargo. It would be committed to this resolution and would support it. She said that we are going to try and make something of it at European level. Now there is a motion to do the same in the Netherlands and she says 'no'. So I ask whether there is anyone else present in Minister Ploumen besides an imaginary Minister Koenders, because this is not the same. It's in conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u24	In my capacity as Minister Ploumen, I always speak with one mouth. There is, of course, an important difference; Mr Sjoerdsma said it himself. The motion calls for a national authorisation stop. This is different from taking a step together with the other 27 EU Member States. This does not seem to me to contradict each other at all. In fact, the Netherlands is calling for a restrictive policy. We will continue to do so, and not only in the EU, because we are also implementing it in our own policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u25	Let's try not to repeat the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u26	Yes, but this discussion was not yet possible, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u27	You have the opportunity to ask a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister is trying to cover something up, albeit with the cloak of love. There really is a gap between the different statements. The European Parliament says that there must be a European arms embargo. This can only be done if all Member States do so, including the Netherlands. Then the Minister can say that our motion is too strict, but it is not; our motion is exactly what the European resolution proposes. So one more question to this Minister: would you really advise against this motion, given your commitment at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u29	I'm not gonna repeat what I said. The motion is really asking for something else, as I have just explained. The Netherlands reserves a very restrictive policy towards Saudi Arabia. This has led to many rejections over the past few months, but at the moment I would like to keep the room at national level to continue delivering customisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u30	The motion in part No. 271 continues to dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 272.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u31	Mr President, do you agree that I should like to make the motion on item No. 273 treatment first? We will then remain on the same subject and I will not wrong Mr Van Dijk with his motion for a resolution on the other subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u32	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u33	In the Servaes motion to item No. 273 is all about what changed during the AA. Mr Servaes also added something about the call for the resolution adopted by the European Parliament. This adoption is a recent action and has not yet been discussed during the AA. I see this motion as a policy support. I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u34	The judgment on the motion in part No. 273 is in the Chamber. We're going back to the motion on part no. 272.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u35	The motion in part No. 272 is about service dogs used by the Israeli army and delivered by a Dutch company. We talked a lot about that during the AA. I have promised Mr Van Dijk and others that I will make a great effort to ensure that such practices no longer occur. I do that in two ways. On the one hand, I do so by talking to and staying with the companies concerned. On the other hand, I do so by talking to and staying with the Israeli authorities. Mr Van Dijk is now tabling a motion on this point. I made a commitment in the AA to inform the Chamber about the outcome of my efforts before the summer. So the motion seems premature to me. Perhaps Mr Van Dijk is so good as to hold her, then perhaps we can come back to it as a result of my report to the Chamber for the summer, if Mr Van Dijk felt it was necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u36	Then the question to Mr Van Dijk is whether he is convinced by the Minister so that he can take the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u37	I will consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u38	It's being considered! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u39	I'd love to wait for that discussion. I hope that Mr Van Dijk is prepared to wait for the commitment. Then we can discuss this further, if we need to, but maybe we won't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u40	Thank you, and thank you all for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-31.u41	The votes will be taken next Tuesday.
