ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Willem de Wildt, who supports Mr Van der Staaij in this initiative proposal. I would like to say that I very much appreciate and appreciate that a colleague is taking the trouble to come up with proposals on how to improve the way the Chamber works in a good and effective way. For that reason alone, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join you in congratulating the author of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure. For today we are going to talk about ourselves, not out of vanity, but out of improvement. It is to be commended that we are given the opportunity by Mr Van der Staaij to do so. The erosion of the instruments of this Parliament is at the heart of the VVD Group, as any member of this Chamber should be at the heart of it. We, as members of the Lower House, together with the members of the Upper Chamber of the States-General, are the main users of the instruments offered by membership of parliament. This also entails a particular responsibility: to ensure that the instruments remain effective. That is also in our own interest. As far as the instrument of the motion is concerned, there is now ample reason to doubt its effectiveness. This is mainly due to the frequency and manner in which it is used. In 2015, 3.582 motions were tabled. Of these 2,720 were put to the vote, of which 1,127 were adopted. The number of motions in the Chamber has increased enormously in recent years: in ten years the number of motions has more than doubled. There were 1,434 in 2005, in 2015 it was 3,582. The VVD Group therefore supports all initiatives to combat the erosion of parliamentary instruments. It calls for regular attention to be paid to this. But not only that, the VVD group also has "practical what you preach." The latter must do good to the author of the proposal before us, particularly as regards the prayer part. In 1969, VVD member Theo Joekes once asked what a parliamentary question costs. That was 1,000 guilders back then. In 2011, the then Minister of the Interior replied to questions from then VVD group chairman Blok that answering a parliamentary question cost €3,750 in civil servants capacity. The handling of an adopted motion now costs €7,500 per motion. This means that all motions together cost about 8.5 million a year in civil servants' capacity and Parliament's questions over 10 million. Questions have been asked about chained labradors in Breskens and about a stork. It was often about issues that national politics is not at all about; that is what local authorities are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr Taverne is quite right to point out that a parliamentary question costs a certain amount. But if he's talking about a parliamentary question, does he mean the whole set of questions a MP brings in? Or does he mean every question that's in a whole set?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Setts can be very large, but these are averages. There are sets of one question, but also sometimes of ten. The costs also depend on how easily the questions can be answered. I therefore referred to average amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	If I understood the same states correctly, it's the total set. A member of parliament asks a question. The first question is: have you read that... Then you cannot say: that is €3,750. There may be more questions. So it's the total set. This is to avoid that if I ask ten questions, someone says: that is €37,500.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	It's been noted. The instrument we have in mind today, the motion, is subject to inflation. 54 motions of censure have been tabled since 1992. Exactly half of them, 27 in the last five years. Thus, even the hardest instrument of the Chamber seems to be seriously eroded. The question that is at the heart of today's VVD is: what is the effectiveness of this proposal? Are this proposal of the initiator preventing unnecessary motions? This leads the VVD Group to a number of questions, which I would like to put to the author. If a Member wishes to vote on a motion, if Mr Van der Staaij's proposal becomes a practice, then that should be possible. Has this been adequately expressed in a new Rule in the Rules of Procedure? There must be no misunderstanding about this. It must also be absolutely clear when a motion is taken over. What are the chances of the initiator getting involved in the debate about whether or not a motion has been taken over? If the proposer's proposal is accepted, a member can only declare by means of a declaration that he cannot agree with the motion taken over. That must then be done during the vote. The instrument of explanation of vote can then be undermined. How likely does the initiator consider that explanations of vote will be more frequent? Do the advantages of this new system outweigh the possible disadvantages of the improper use of explanations of vote? Should the fact that someone wants to make a statement be reported to the Registry in advance? The initiator also states in the note on the report that it would benefit the Chamber if the Chamber invested more in the quality of the motions than in the intensity of their use. The VVD Group wholeheartedly agrees with that. Does the initiator have any ideas on how the Chamber can invest more in the quality of motions? Finally, does the initiator have any ideas on how to combat the erosion of other parliamentary instruments, such as explanations of vote and questions of Parliament? The VVD Group is not in favour of unnecessary motions and appreciates that the petitioner wants to make the vote in the Chamber more efficient, or that he wants to stop the instrument motion being hollowed out. The VVD Group is therefore looking forward to the applicant's replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	We are looking at this, because we have here that you had eight hours' speaking time, but that had to be eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my thanks to the initiator. With his initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure, he tries to look beyond the delusion of the day and strengthen the Chamber in its controlling role. My group appreciates his attempt, also because he is trying to regulate the increasing number of motions. At the end of the 1980s, in the early 1990s, there were usually only 300 motions a year. Mr Taverne has just given us a nice look back and a number of figures. In recent years, however, we have been sitting around 3,000 motions, with as high or low as it is but how you look at it, 2011, with 3,679 motions. That calls for reflection. Why is the number of motions rising? Above all, how can we manage this? My group has not yet decided whether the proposal before us is the best solution. In all honesty, therefore, I would like to ask the initiator the necessary questions in order to reach an opinion after the answer. I shall begin with the aim of the regulation to give the remaining motions a stronger political profile. Are not motions adopted unanimously, motions that send the strongest political signals? Does this not sometimes give rise to a strong signal that politics wants to tackle a problem in a united way? How does that change when such a motion is taken over? The initiator writes about the visibility of adopted motions, which will be included on the voting list: taken over. Where exactly does the Rules of Procedure state this? We do not yet see this in the amendment as proposed. Would it not be wise to actually record this, especially since the initiator's proposal states that the motion will no longer be the subject of a separate debate from the moment it is taken over? Can the initiator offer comfort that it is 100% certain that the motions taken over will always be on the voting list and will remain on the voting list? The assumption that the proposal will lead to less time lost in voting also leads to questions. Are you sure it's gonna be any faster? The initiator wants to give the opportunity to give explanations of vote on the motions taken. He sees this in a sober form, but is there not a risk that it will take longer than the current procedure, especially if several parties have not been able to oppose takeover but are opposed to the motion? The latter seems possible to me. There are not ten political groups in many plenary debates. We also have an example here. How many of us are there, six of us? There are often only five or six political groups, as we are today, while we have sixteen political groups in the Chamber. Would it not be better to state in the Rules of Procedure that the statement is limited to asking for a note that one is supposed to have voted against? That keeps the scheme workable. This is common practice, for example, in the Upper House for legislative proposals which are adopted without a vote. The question remains, however, whether the advantages of faster voting outweigh the loss of freedom of expression of the smaller groups. Having voted against a note or an explanation of vote is really something other than a real vote against. The initiator himself is also from a smaller group. How's he looking at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. There are seven MPs present. I think you forgot to count yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	You also count Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	Oh, Mr. Klein, of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. Vanity is a sin. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree? We have many good proposals in this Chamber. Many good proposals are also accepted, but there is also a lot of vanity. Proposals, motions which are widely supported in the Chamber and in fact taken over by the government, are nevertheless put to the vote. Some kind of vanity that's hard to eradicate. Mr Van der Staaij's proposal is simple and very sympathetic. The government will be given the opportunity to take a motion and then it will no longer be put to the vote. We did see two problems. If one MP wants a motion to be put to the vote after all, is it true that the motion still has to be put to the vote? Does Mr Van der Staaij see with me that this will happen quite often? Mr Van Meenen pointed out that, even though the voting list "taken over" makes it possible to make a statement, a kind of "non-voting declaration." Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that in the case of non-votes, a lot of non-votes will be issued and voting will therefore take much longer? We are very pleased with the initiative because we have to do something. Earlier, I proposed changing Question Time by turning it into a Question Time with the Prime Minister and the group chairmen, so that all kinds of topical issues could be discussed and less debates and motions might be needed. Vanity among some MPs has led to this not being possible. Members of parliament want to ask questions themselves. There is also a good proposal to avoid the agenda of the plenary sitting by tabling motions in general discussions. I believe this is also a silent death dying. I very much welcome this proposal. Let's do that, too. Let us see if this will at least reduce unnecessary motions, but I think the author agrees that the best solution to avoid unnecessary motions is to stop filing them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij for his efforts. The CDA Group appreciates its commitment to maintain the parliamentary arsenal of weapons. He proposes a new way of working on motions that do not so much expose political differences, but are mainly supported by Parliament. That is a useful proposal. Hopefully it saves valuable time and perhaps in the long term sharpens the instrument of the motions. The CDA Group still has a practical question to Mr Van der Staaij about something that did not really emerge from the answer on how it is actually going in practice. This is about the moment when it is possible to ask for a vote on a motion that the government qualifies as 'taken over'. In the case of amendments, this can only be done during the debate. However, not all groups are present in a large number of debates. Often smaller fractions are absent. Can we only ask for a vote at the moment when the debate is taking place, so until the debate is closed? Or can it be until voting time, so until the voting list is final? Or is that the third possibility? After the debate and before the votes, can only be asked for a note in the Acts? The CDA Group's question to the initiator is mainly to make it clear where the moment of whether or not to ask for a vote lies and to explain the advantages and disadvantages attached to it. I have already heard a number of comments from several colleagues, including from the SP and D66. Apart from this practical implementation element, the CDA Group supports the SGP Group's proposal to allow the adoption of motions, so that we can reduce the loss of valuable meeting time and hopefully further strengthen the instrument of the motions in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to congratulate the author of this initiative. It is always good for Members of Parliament to give substance to their parliamentary task, for example, to make Parliament function better. Mr Van der Staaij's proposal to allow the government to adopt motions seems sympathetic, but is in fact a monstrous one. First of all, I wonder which problem it solves. You should figure out what the problem is. The applicant considers that the motion instrument has lost value. A motion inflation or a motion diarrhea would make this important parliamentary instrument not sharp enough. The question then is whether this proposal will lead to fewer motions. So it's not! The number of motions to be submitted will not change. In fact, it may even rise with harmless motions, hoping that they will only be taken over. You could say that these are unnecessary motions, but the question is who decides what is unnecessary. Mr Van Raak has just indicated what unnecessary motions are, but what is unnecessary for the SP may be a very useful motion for the PVV. I would therefore never be able and will not be able to give the qualification 'unnecessary' to a motion from the Chamber. Another assumption of the petitioner is that, by adopting motions, the other motions would have a stronger political load. At least it is stated in the note on the basis of the report and the explanatory memorandum. I have no idea what the author means by this. As a participant in a debate, you only know in the second term from the government whether a motion may be taken over. A debate with the author on a motion is then entirely a station in our order of business. The political debate on sharply tabled motions has been a long time ago, in so far as it is possible at all to hold a political debate on a motion which is often tabled at a rad staccato pace with a lot of wooliness. How can a motion which is not being taken over be given a stronger political weight because other motions are taken over by the government in the second term? So the question is, what do we get out of it? According to the complainant, an important point is that there will be time savings. I quote: 'The more than 3000 motions take up a substantial part of the plenary session when it comes to voting'. Can the petitioner explain what he means by a substantial part? In my observation, we're talking about three hours a week at most, plus a night before recess. But let us quickly count and take all the motions that were adopted unanimously in 2014 and assume that they would have been taken over by the Minister. That is a somewhat absurd assumption because no doubt some of it would have been dissuaded by the Minister, but the applicant probably did not examine it. Back to the assumption: in 2014 a vote was taken on 2,859 motions in 100% voting time. In that year, 84 motions were unanimously adopted, and so we would have been adopted by the government, which would not have to be voted on. That would have saved time of 2.9%. In 2013 that was really a top year, just like 2011.... was the percentage slightly different, because in that year the adoption of unanimously adopted motions would have resulted in a time saving of 4.6%. What are we talking about? However, there are also motions which are not adopted unanimously and which are by definition opposed by a majority. If there were also motions taken because not all the groups took part in the debate, we would not be able to make any progress in time either. After all, a somewhat self-respecting group is going to make statements that it does not agree with that adopted motion. It's gonna take more time. The author also considered amending Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure as regards explanations of vote. There can no longer be a vote on any motions taken, so the rule of explanation of vote does not apply. After all, you can no longer explain your vote, either in advance or afterwards, because there is no vote. It will then become a kind of testimony with only the value of the endorsement, and that is public confession. Is that what Mr Van der Staaij is after? Will this statement of testimony be recorded in the same way as the explanation of vote in the Rules of Procedure and will the rule of two minutes be applicable? The adoption of motions also creates a strange situation in the motion of the coalition groups. Every stinger is taken out or covered with the cloak of love when it is taken over. There is a danger that the Chamber will no longer have an instrument to check whether a motion has been carried out. The motion is no longer there as a motion, but is packaged as a kind of commitment on government policy. That also doesn't get any fun in the statistics of adopted motions, when you can often get home with them in your constituency, does it? I understand from the answer given by the author that it is by no means his intention to give small groups less opportunity to respond to motions; in view of his background, I understand that. However, the system proposed by the proposer is the opposite world: the action to give an opinion on a motion taken must then be taken from the groups not present at the time of the submission. Now it is precisely an action by the author to have a motion put to the vote or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	I welcome Mr Klein's almost excited tone, because it seems as if there is a very interesting, grand and compelling debate going on. Maybe that'll give you a little more interest. I would almost say that this tone is worthy of an even greater cause; my appreciation for that. I have two questions. I think Mr Klein said that a vote taken is actually the same as a commitment. That is what he said in the context of his statement that we will no longer be able to see whether that commitment is being fulfilled. Does Mr Klein mean that a commitment from the cabinet does not have to be met?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	No, you are right: every promise must be kept. In the current order of business, for example in the organisation of work, there is an explicit demand for the state of play regarding an adopted motion and a request for a letter from the government. This is done in the case of commitments to a much lesser extent. In fact, we have to keep that separate in the case of commitments. It is only in the case of an AO that commitments are made separately to keep the Minister, but that of course has a very different value from a motion adopted by a majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	That reasoning is only correct if you agree with Mr Klein's reasoning that a vote taken is a commitment. However, this is still a motion. In this sense, I think she is simply involved in the further procedures that we know here. I have one more question. Earlier I heard Mr Klein say that there is actually no proper definition of 'an unnecessary motion'. I think that we are here together to see if we can find something common in this respect. In addition, it is ultimately up to everyone in the applicant's proposal to determine this separately. Does Mr Klein agree with me that an unnecessary motion is, by definition, a motion which does not alter the policy of the cabinet? Isn't that the definition of "an unnecessary motion"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	As far as the value of a commitment and a motion is concerned, a motion is, of course, something other than a promise from a minister in a debate, because such commitments are made very often. The value is therefore that the intention is explicitly stated in a motion, including in all considerations. The applicant also states in its documents that it is not only the operative part of the motion but also the recitals. If a minister disagrees with the considerations in a motion, he could possibly discourage the motion on that basis. The other point is: when is a motion superfluous or not? That too is an interpretation that is given to it. I would not argue that any motion supporting the policy should therefore not be tabled. Certainly from coalition parties I see many motions passing by which the government says: VVD and Party of Labour, you are all right; why did you even file that motion? However, we are happy to vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	That incredible annoyance about open doors which, often by coalition parties, are translated into motions and which simply literally reflect the policy of the cabinet, is one of the reasons why the initiator has done so if I speak from my own heart. This is precisely a way of forcing the cabinet not to leave the judgment on such a motion to the Chamber, but to say: this is a policy of the cabinet; we are therefore taking over this motion and we do not need to vote on it anymore, because this is exactly what we are talking about. It would be even more sophisticated if the author were to say: if so, I withdraw the motion. That's what we're looking for, isn't it? Or is Mr Klein not looking for that at all? Does Mr Klein agree with all sorts of unnecessary motions being tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	I don't know what an unnecessary motion is. So I cannot judge whether a motion is superfluous or not. It may also prove to be an open door, but an open door for coalition partners does not need to be open to any of the smaller groups. I can't judge that. So you shouldn't want to judge that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	To prevent anyone from getting it any more: this debate is not about whether a motion is superfluous, desirable, good or bad. This proposal is very simple. You're gonna file a motion and that's gonna be voted on. If the majority of the Chamber is in favour, the motion is passed. The author says, in my view, that if the government takes over the motion, the Chamber will no longer have to vote on that motion. It's no less, that's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	That's totally correct. In short, fewer motions will be tabled, but there is no basis for that in this proposal and in the note on the report. Maybe even more will come, hoping they'll be taken over. Will there be time savings because we have to vote less? There is no basis for that either. In fact, we'll be spending more time on testimony. Not only will the walking time of Members of Parliament from the small groups, most of whom are in the back of the Chamber, increase. Well, that doesn't really help either. My conclusion is that the horse is being stretched behind the cart. At first glance it's functional, because there's a horse and a cart, but it doesn't solve any problems. However, when it comes to the use of the instrument motion, does the author have a point: lion or lamb? Actually, it's about whether or not the Chamber has crippled itself. A little more or less, it doesn't matter. And yes, if that's the game, then I'm in on it, too. Don't worry, I'll make them happy. Preferably we now see completely meaningless motions at the level "calls on the government to pay attention" or "calls on the government to inform the Chamber" or a request to confirm the policy. They'll be adopted, too. Hooray, the supporters can then be made happy with a huge result! So, Fake. It will then be found strange if our Parliament is then rattled: irrelevant. We should oppose this, but how? Filing a motion will lead to a stage and will give an opportunity to repeat previously spoken texts in the second term. To offer an alternative: what does the petitioner think of taking over the system of filing motions from the First Chamber? All motions will be read by the chairman. Then it becomes a lot more neutral and it gives rise to less motions. With this solution, I'm basically saying that whatever you're making up, something will always be made up to get around it. Our society has already fallen back to messing around in the margins, with calculating citizens on the square meter. Freedom is still a long way to go if you don't know where to find it. Our parliament is a reflection of society, so here it is not much different. Real change must come from a new policy, from the people's representatives themselves. If they are not able to pull themselves out of the motion swamp as a baron of Münchhausen, it will have to come from the outside, for example from a strong liberal party group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	Madam President. I never thought we were going to talk today about the walking minutes, the minutes it takes to walk forward from the back of the room. Apparently, it could all be today! First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Staaij for having the courage to do so, and you will hear that in this Chamber. Actually, it's always the same. Every time one of us makes a proposal to change anything, we meet for a very long time and, above all, we often say why we don't like it. I will be very honest: the PvdA also has critical questions, but it has a positive basic attitude. Let us be very honest: Mr Van der Staaij is going to look at how this might be resolved. What does it have to do with the fact that the instrument of the motion has lost political strength? Previous speakers have already said that we have tabled about a thousand more motions in five years. So we have actually made the instrument blunt ourselves. The PvdA Group wonders whether the proposal before us is going to solve this problem. Will MPs motivate themselves to focus more on the quality of motions than on the quantity of motions? The PvdA Group also wonders whether the proposal will actually reduce the administrative burden. This has also been mentioned by previous speakers. According to the proposal, motions are still on the voting list and statements can also be tabled by Members of Parliament who are absent from the debate. In addition, it remains possible at any time for an individual member of the Chamber to oppose the adoption of a motion and to request a vote. Our question is therefore where the added value of this proposal lies. We want to solve something and we want to deal with it more efficiently, but is it really efficient in the end? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers it important that, if the proposal is followed, Members of Parliament can say that they are against a motion and can request a vote. There is also the question of whether we are not slowing down the process. How is it prevented that smaller groups who have not been present during the debate will declare during the vote that they cannot support the content of the motion? The PvdA Group therefore still has a number of questions about the proposal, but we are asking them with a positive attitude. We can tell here why we all do not like it, but I think that this debate starts with looking at ourselves critically to see what we are doing and why we are doing it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	Does the Labour Party now intend not to table any more unnecessary motions, or rather open-door motions, so that we can reduce diarrhea slightly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	As Members of Parliament, I think we all have our own freedom. There's an assignment here for all of us. I find it very easy to always look at a party. All 150 MPs are going over this with each other. This is what the room's about. That is also what the Constitution says. Together, we have the expensive task of seeing whether a very important instrument, namely the tabling of motions, is really not going to be very blunt because we have tabled a lot of motions. As far as I am concerned, this is an appeal to all of us; an appeal to Mr Klein, to the VVD, to the PvdA and, above all, to the individual Members of Parliament. As 150 Members of Parliament, we are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	It's easy to address that call to all of us. Shouldn't it be much more: improve the world, start with yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	I think that's what I'm saying. I think that is what my text is about. I say that we must agree on the amount of motions we are tabling. I therefore believe that we agree on this point. Mr Klein can now start peeing with me. I am not a big fan of it, but I do not think it will be today. This is an expensive assignment for all of us. Mr Klein has heard the contributions of the various groups. I think we agree with the Chamber that the amount of motions we are tabling means that the instrument becomes very blunt. However, unlike Mr Klein, I am not going to burn down a colleague's proposal to the ground, but I am saying that we should at least talk about it once. Unless someone comes up with a better proposal today, we should think about this very carefully. If a colleague has the guts to come up with a proposal in this Chamber, it is very easy to burn that proposal to the ground. I'm not one of them. I have critical questions, but the PvdA Group has a positive attitude towards this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	I have a personal fact: I don't burn anything off and I don't burn anything off. We're just having a good discussion. I believe that the questions put by Mrs Fokke are in line with the questions I have asked. Perhaps the tone is different, but we are in different groups for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	It is indeed our democratic right to give our own explanation. That is why I am thinking about Mr Klein's contribution as I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Klein walks back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	Even on this subject, we almost got hurt. That's unbelievable! What a polarized society we are! It's very sensitive. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few comments on Mr Van der Staaij's proposal. We appreciate that the SGP has taken the initiative to come forward with this proposal. This must put some order in the disorder that has arisen. The situation is becoming almost unworkable. This morning there was an article in NRC Next with the headline "Get rid of the motion diarrhoea." And so it is! I also have a lot of annoyance about colleagues. On the contrary, it is always members of the coalition parties who read out motions that could have been written by department staff. "Support policy," the governor then says to that blundering MP. Indeed, another motion has been added to the résumé. Mr Van Raak has already mentioned vanity in this context. But we're all here with an individual responsibility. We should be able to discipline; we should be able to control that ego that is always next to us in that blue seat. We recognize, however, that Mr Van der Staaij's proposal will show a reduction in the number of motions. Our main objection to this way of working is the following. All political groups do not follow the opinion of a spokesperson. This applies to all types of motions, which apply to motions with the qualifications "support policy," "judge chamber" and "dissuade." An opinion to vote in favour will then be changed after that debate in the group into an opinion to vote against, or vice versa. If we make this change by Mr Van der Staaij, we will deprive groups of the opportunity to disagree with the spokesman and strengthen the party's own views. These are often the best substantive discussions, and we attach great importance to them. Moreover, parties with this way of working no longer have the opportunity to show their own supporters that they were indeed opposed to a adopted motion. By doing so, they can be seen by their own supporters as one of the parties that has committed themselves to a wrong position. We are therefore committed to maintaining the possibility of voting against even if a motion is taken over. I am happy to listen to Mr Van der Staaij's response to all the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr Beertema spoke about the discussion in the group whether or not to vote against a motion. He is putting forward an interesting aspect. It is already possible for amendments to be accepted. That also happens at regular intervals. So we already know the practice of adopting amendments in the Chamber. Then how does one relate to the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	I was afraid that question would come. The only thing I can say is that you might have to discuss all the amendments and not just let them be adopted and then not put to the vote. They should also be discussed in the political groups. I am afraid to say it, because then our meetings will not end at all. So Mrs Bruins Slot has a point here. I find that difficult for exactly the same reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	Then the second question is: is something going wrong with the adoption of amendments at the moment? Can Mr Beertema, from the many years of experience he now has as a Member of Parliament, think of another amendment that did not go well, so he had to conclude afterwards that the PVV had actually wanted to have a discussion in the group about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	Luckily, that hasn't happened to me so far. An amendment doesn't surprise you, of course. Mrs Bruins Slot has already referred to this herself. An amendment can be seen very quickly on Parlis. Active employees always bring this to the attention immediately. We all know that this is not the case with motions. I'm getting mugged by motions with a huge amount of regularity. So there's a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr Beertema points out that the question of the amendments is a bit tricky, but I would like to put the following to him. If an amendment is accepted, is it not true that every Member of Parliament will be able to table a new amendment until the vote, contrary to the amendment adopted by the government? Until then, therefore, this possibility of correction is always present. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	That can indeed be done until the very last moment, yes, and that is good. I thank Mr Klein for the lesson.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	By the way, I just heard that all motions are put in Parlis immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all the members of the Chamber for their input. It is good that so much attention is being paid to considering the responsible use of the instruments available to the Chamber and that so much work has been done on them. When I hear all the speakers like that, we agree on the ailment, namely that too many motions are being tabled and put to the vote. In my own study time as a Leiden law student I was already told at the end of the eighties that there was a motion explosion and a motion avalanche in the Lower House. That sounded serious back then. They took back data from the nineteenth century. Between 1849 and 1900 four motions per calendar year were a good number and at that time there were people who were already excited about those four motions a year. I am thinking of parliamentary historian and Member of Parliament Van Welderen Baron Rengers, who spoke of the motion as the "many unboiled sentimental expression of an excited state body." Why don't you get over that? From 1900 to 1967 we saw 30 motions a year. Between 1977 and 1985, the number of motions had risen by over 900 motions a year to unprecedented levels. From 1979 to 1980 there was an absolute peak, we heard at that time, of 1,200 motions. However, it has already been said by a number of colleagues: today, with the fresh figures for 2015, we are talking about 3,582 motions. So I heard the term motion inflation again today, including Mr Taverne. As a means of influencing government policy, the motion has lost its significance because of its large number. This is also reflected in the report Trust and self-confidence, the outcome of the parliamentary self-reflection of 2009, which Mr Van Raak was also involved in at the time. In that I also found it very precisely formulated by former chamber member Schutte. The power of motions was, according to Schutte, to make a statement in a disagreement with the government and it has now become more of a profiling tool to record a success achieved and to show what you have or have not worked for in vain. I think that's recognizable. Motions often become an almost normal, regular way to capture conclusions from a debate. Former Member of Parliament and scientist Van den Berg writes that one can get too much of anything: due to excess of motions, the result-oriented effectiveness is at stake. The multitude of use makes the parliamentary instruments blunt, and as a result the Chamber suffers from loss of authority, he states. The current use of parliamentary influence means, according to Van den Berg, is somewhat like shooting a shot, because'motions adopted are rarely of such political importance that they require a change in government policy'. Of course, "Lamb of Lion" of Vondeling also passes by, as well as the weapons that become blunt. Those are the beloved metaphors in the debate on motions. In July 2013, VVD leader Halbe Zijlstra repeated Anne Vondeling's complaint. Zijlstra said that the parliamentary weapons have turned into pistols. He also said, "We don't serve ourselves if we make our weapons more blunt." So much for the ailment we all agree on. In response to that story of VVD leader Zijlstra in the Volkskrant, I indicated that we should be careful not to make it a kind of ritual complaint repeated from time to time, without really doing anything to invent medicines for that disease. Let us not continue to complain, but let us take concrete measures. The first measure to come forward then concerns the call, the appeal: let us be more selective in dealing with motions. I also heard Mr Van Raak say it today: let us stop filing motions which are not really necessary. Then we are talking about motions on matters that have already been promised and which everyone agrees on. I agree with that remark. That apple is right and I wholeheartedly underline it, but I must also note that repeating the apple does not really help yet. Is it vanity? As a righteous Calvinist, I do not wish to be inferior to the SP in a sense of sin, but at the same time, in addition to more personal, egotistical vanity, I also see the sincere desire to find a clear political profile and to use the motion instrument for this purpose. We should see if we can't make that happen in any other way. Once that motion has been tabled because the commitment was still a little too vague or because there was a need to explicitly anchor it and make a political point, it could at least help to use the second filter, namely that once motions have been tabled, not all put on the voting list uncritically. But I would like to underline what Mr Van Raak also said, and Mr Taverne also said, namely that with the proposal we are discussing today, we are not in itself doing anything about the submission of fewer motions. But that's where it starts. Everyone must therefore be encouraged to think about it as well. For my part, I would like to make one more suggestion in the preparation for that debate. Could it not also help in plenary debates if the President-in-Office summarises at the end of the first term what commitments have been made, in the vein of 'the Secretary of State has just made the following three commitments'? Then it becomes even clearer that it is really not the intention to table further motions which actually reword those commitments. At least that's a suggestion. Then I come to the proposal that I would like to clarify today. The proposal to open the possibility of the government adopting motions is in line with the practice of and the possibility in our Rules of Procedure for the adoption of amendments. This is, in fact, even further, because an amendment is a legislative text which ultimately has binding force. We already have that opportunity. I think this is a relativization of all the reservations that may be understandable, in the sense of "are the rights of minorities and such things being done properly?" I am very much in line with the rules already in force for amendments which, in fact, go even further. The second point is that we are already dealing with a practice of withdrawing motions on the basis of government commitments. We are also given commitments which sometimes have a far-reaching character. If, in the second term, a commitment is made that someone is uncomfortable, then there is no possibility of saying: I do want a separate vote on it. So, in a sense, it is a relativization of what I am discussing today with my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	Relative ring is always in place. I understand the reasoning behind the amendments, but in the case of a motion, whatever the situation, as a member of a political group other than the group of those who tabled or co-signed the motion, you do not have the opportunity to make another correction. If an amendment is accepted, as a Member of Parliament, you can say: you know what? That amendment has been accepted and will therefore become part of the law; I am amending it again. So you have the opportunity to make a correction and make it visible, for example by allowing the amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	In theory, that's right. At the same time, I see in practice that there is often broad consensus on accepted amendments and that there is no need to correct them in this way. Mr Klein is right that there is a formal possibility of doing so. Motions often go less far than amendments, which immediately become legislative texts. Suppose there is a commitment and the motion is withdrawn. I am really talking about far-reaching motions, in the vein of "government, come up with a bill to deal with this or that." Then the Chamber is again in full justice at the time when the bill is actually submitted. However, there are still later times when minorities can make their voices heard. Unlike in the case of amendments, in order to meet Mr Klein's point, I have opened up the possibility of expressing the objections of a political group when the other motions were put to the vote. This regulation does not exist for accepted amendments, but I am now proposing them in the case of adopted motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	I am pleased with this answer, but the last part is a separate discussion. This concerns the functioning of the proposal. I was concerned about how the system relates to the adoption of amendments. There is an essential difference between them, even if it might be theoretical. I did not examine that, but theoretically it is simply that an amendment has a system other than a motion and there are other possibilities for a Member of Parliament to maintain his rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u44	Agreed. The idea behind this proposal is that on the voting list there are fewer but more powerful motions left which really reveal a disagreement between government and political groups in this Chamber. Motions that are in the mood are getting sharper. It also takes less time to vote. It has been asked whether this will really give rise to time savings in practice. It is true that if it leads to all sorts of statements about adopted motions, that time savings would be nullified. However, that is not my expectation. I do not see any reason for this either, particularly in view of motions for resolutions which are adopted unanimously. I have just taken up the voting list last week: small debates can produce six motions, three of which are really different from the government's line. There really is a different choice in that. However, there are also three that are in line with what has already been promised. They are of the category "we recognize that problem and we are going to investigate whether we can do something about it." Let us also be sober: a large dose of motions is actually being put to the vote. I expect that all these needs for comprehensive explanations of vote will certainly not arise and that there will indeed be time savings. Will there not be a stooge, as several Members of Parliament asked, about whether or not a motion has been taken over? If that is unclear or if a minister says "I can live with half of it, with the other half not," then we should not start taking over at all. It must have the strength that it is clear that the motion for a resolution meets no objection on the part of the government. In all kinds of doubt, I would say "don't," because then you would call for more clarity than you would create clarity. Will it not lead to more motions rather than fewer motions being tabled, so early, among others, Mr Klein? I don't expect that. It must be proved in practice, I admit, to anyone who has given thought to it. We can all keep speculating about how it's going to be, but my call would be to give it a chance and just do it in practice. We can see how it actually works out. I do not see any objective grounds for expecting more motions to be tabled. Are the rights of minorities at risk? When I look at the practice of withdrawn motions, which are already in place, there is no way of meeting them. I should also like to mention the commitments, which we should not underestimate. There are many, also far-reaching commitments, which are being made in debates, on which there are no extensive votes. In order to respond to this point of broad life, as a kind of special service, the possibility of making a statement on a motion taken over has been included in the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. I should also like to say to the speakers and the spokesmen this morning that it is advisable to do so in the most sober way. I would be in favour of a practice à la lifting treatment reservations. For example, the PVV is deemed not to have agreed to the lifting of the parliamentary reservation. As far as I'm concerned, asking for the note would actually be the best form. That should be indicated in advance. Then you would also prevent a practice from taking root with extensive explanations of vote and the like. It should actually be an exceptional thing, but it should not be ruled out, to make a statement on it. The stakes should be the practice of only asking for a note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u45	That's an interesting effect. Without wishing to become too technical, I would like to know how Mr Van der Staaij intends to record this. There is a risk that it may be the intention to put it into practice in this way, but as long as there is a formal possibility that you can make a more complete statement, I suspect that it is possible to predict that a very large number of parties or MPs will not be able to resist the pressure. My group's concern is how we ensure that what actually happened to the motion instrument does not happen. How is that really going to stand up to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u46	This is a fair question. I would be a little hesitant to try to close all this right away. That's how I know the VVD: don't try to catch everything in rules too quickly, give the practice a chance. I think it's important that you start a particular use right away, given its power of expression. If it is to be used equally enough to ask for a note and if the groups respond to this, it could simply be a practice that proves itself and for which no additional provisions are necessary. If the practice were a very different one, you would still have to evaluate it. If this is supported, I hope, of course, I can imagine that after a year we will do it well. This raises the question of whether we are going to continue in this way, or whether additional provisions are needed. If you take up last week's voting list, you can see how many motions there are that would be eligible for take-over, motions for which the Chamber has a broad statement: of course, if people suffer from stacking invoices, better information should be provided in consultation with the municipalities. Those are really things in which political differences do not play a role at all, which the Chamber often unanimously believes should be done. These categories of motions could be filtered out without any problems. Mr Taverne asked whether, if a Member wishes to vote, that is always clear. Is it well documented that this can be requested? I believe that, in view of the second paragraph, point (b) above, that is really well arranged. It states that the President must be convinced that none of the Members present in the Chamber opposes the adoption of the motion. Mr Taverne also asked how to combat the erosion of other instruments. I am thinking of urgent debates, on which separate debates have been held. It is too far-reaching to go on with this now, but I promise Mr Taverne that, when I see opportunities for improving other parliamentary instruments, I will mention that point. I challenge the VVD to do that, too. Mr Van Meenen of the D66 Group asked whether motions for resolutions adopted unanimously do not give a strong political signal that the Chamber really wants to do so. It is a strong signal if the whole Chamber so wishes, but the question is whether you need a motion for that, if it is precisely a matter of more procedural issues in the vein of 'want to investigate it again, want to look at it, come up with a letter on that'. In that case, I find motions that expose a disagreement between political groups and the government, or really ask for a change of course, a stronger political signal. Where does the Rules of Procedure put "taken over from the voting list"? Shouldn't more comfort be offered? I would think that it is not necessary to lay that down explicitly in the Rules of Procedure, but that it is something of a steady practice to record motions on the voting list. It is now also used to mention that motions have been withdrawn or held, without any explicit provision in the Rules of Procedure. Does it take less time for votes or does it not take more time for all kinds of statements to be made? I have just responded to it, which was a starting point for me in the debate when it came to the preference for notes, precisely in order to avoid that. That is an important point. Mr Klein mentioned the walking time for groups that are a little further in the back of the Chamber. I see an additional advantage in that. Walking time also means health benefits. A party such as Mr Klein knows that it is certainly a problem for the elderly that they are too much and are not moving enough. So we're gonna take that health benefit, too. I note that Mr Klein is taking a walk now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u47	You got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u48	I am glad that Mr Van der Staaij is in favour of the colleague of the elderly. That's always a good thing. But what's the time savings? The colleagues of Bontes/Van Klaveren or colleague Mr Houwers and also the group of Mr Van der Staaij were tucked away quite afterwards. That doesn't make any sense at all, does it? Therefore, I do not fully see the relevance of his remark in the light of his proposal. But maybe he'll point that out to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u49	It was indeed about saving time. An additional point was what Mr Klein said about walking and the time it takes. However, I think I have made it sufficiently clear that I do see time savings, although I admit to Mr Klein that we should not think that we now suddenly have to meet for days less. But all the little bits help. Let's not despise the little things. If a large number of motions disappear from the voting list, less needs to be voted on and the remaining motions have more power of expression, because it is really about whether you want a different course or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u50	I can only endorse this when the author, Mr Van der Staaij, is able to appreciate the small things and gives extra attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u51	Isn't the disadvantage for small parties a loss of freedom of expression? I might be able to answer that question a little easier, precisely because I am a member of a small group in this house. I'm not worried about that. I have seen over the years that firm commitments are being made that do not include voting and that motions are being tabled and disappear like snow before the sun, because they are being withdrawn. We, as a small group, are not aware of that either, and we do not see it as a restriction on our freedoms. I would therefore like to make that point a little small. For the rest, it will have to be proved in practice exactly how it works, because that is speculation for all of us. I would also like to thank the SP for its kind words. Mr Van Raak said that if one Member of Parliament asks for a vote, it still has to be voted on and asked if this proposal would help enough. If the suggestion of adopting a motion were consistent with objections, it would indeed not help enough. However, my assessment is that what is in the motions that are easily taken over is often broad agreement in the Chamber and with the government. That is why a Member of Parliament will not always raise his finger. Mr Van Raak and others asked at what point you have to indicate that you object to it. I think it is most logical that the moment the government announces its intention to take a motion, the President asks whether there is any objection to it. That is what happens when an amendment is adopted. That's the most obvious time to raise your finger and say you don't want to. Suppose that there would be doubt about that or that some would feel attacked by it. I can imagine the President saying: let us suspend the point for a moment, because I see that there is still some doubt; at the end of the debate I will come back to it. The same happens when a motion is held. If there is any doubt in the Chamber about the suggestion, it can provide a solution. So I'm going to postpone the moment when it's established whether there's any objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u52	I think that the latter is a good point from Mr Van der Staaij. Motions are often more unexpected than amendments. Sometimes it asks for a deeper reflection of what is meant by a motion and you would like to ask the policy officer exactly what the situation is. How should that doubt be expressed? Do you have to go straight to the President with the statement "I need to think about this" or, if you get some insight during the debate, can you come back to this at the end of the second term, in the sense of "you asked me, Mr President, but I looked at it even more closely and I ask you for more time"? Should we express the doubt immediately, or is it possible to do so later in the debate if we understand that the motion is actually different from what we thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u53	Indeed, the best thing is for the same conclusion to be drawn. I also expect that this can be done in many cases, precisely because these are motions that support policy and that already contain some kind of conclusion from the debate, including commitments that are widely shared. What if this is not the case? When the President asks if there are any objections, you should immediately come forward and say: I would like to think about it. Then there is the possibility of deciding on this at the end of the debate. If it is still doubtful, it is better to vote on it. Otherwise we are making it very complicated and it should not become so complicated that it raises new questions again. It has to help, that's what we want with each other. It should not give rise to complicated procedures. That brings me to the question of the CDA when there is still time for a vote to be taken and when there is time for just a note. To this end, inspired by Mrs Bruins Slot, I indicated that I thought it best to ask for a note. I come to Mr Klein's contribution. He has shown the courage to be very critical. That helps to get a good look at the objections. As a summary of his contribution, I have noted that freedom is far from being sought if you do not know where to find it. I can wholeheartedly endorse that. Does the proposal lead to fewer motions? My idea is that it actually leads to fewer motions being put to the vote, not so much to the less frequent tabling of a motion. I have just said that this remains the very first commitment. On the point of saving time and "Room: lamb or lion?" I just went in. The alternative of Mr Klein, the system of the First Chamber, in which the chairman reads all motions, I would not like to bring the chairman to our number of motions. We should spare her voice, I'd say. I would like to thank Mrs Fokke of the PvdA for her constructive attitude. It is right to point out that there are reservations about every proposal. Let us give suggestions a chance if we think they can be something, but we still have to wait and see if they will have the intended effect. Will there not be any delay if we can request a vote again? She asked that question, too. If this were to happen massively, it would indeed carry this risk. However, my expectation is that this will not be so. Will MPs motivate themselves to focus on the content? In my view, that is the call made today in Chambers. It is not Columbus' egg, all the problems of motion are not over if we do this. It remains worth being critical, therefore, where the Chamber as a whole has a role to play when motions are tabled which actually repeat a commitment. Then the interrupting microphone should be asked: is this really necessary? I have just mentioned the role of small groups. I believe that their rights are being done enough. Mr Beertema of the PVV Group asked whether there was sufficient room for different votes within a group. The need that he has to play a strong role in this is that the possibilities for Members of Parliament who want to pursue their own course of action should not be restricted by voting restraint. I would like to draw attention to the practice of adopting motions, commitments and withdrawn motions. The practical effect is the same. In practice, this is the same as the proposal. A Member of Parliament who is not present at a debate cannot raise his finger and cannot exercise his influence at that time. I would add that it will be very often, even in the case of motions, that it will be legislation at a later date and that there will be letters drawing up commitments. There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss this. I do not expect this proposal to put Members of Parliament before all kinds of facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij. I'm looking around to determine if there's a need for a second term. That seems to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the author for his first-term replies. In my view, the cause of the problem depends on whether one is on the coalition side or on the opposition side: are the motions that are being taken over because it is a policy that is standing and are therefore superfluous, or are they motions that are being tabled in an advertisement from the political group? We agree on the problem: there is far too many motions. So the question is how to deal with it better, but it does not alter the fact that the major problem lies in the supply of motions. The VVD Group recognizes and appreciates the initiative to come up with a solution. Although I have no alternative on behalf of the VVD Group, the VVD Group does not seem entirely convinced by the solution offered. I think it's nice to let you know in second term. That makes the obligation rest on her to come up with better ideas herself. I told you, we are trying to do as much of our own as we think others should. It is a pity that, apart from Mr Klein, the smaller groups are not represented. After all, according to the VVD group, there is often a problem there. By the way, we also see an increased erosion of other instruments, such as the roll-call vote, which is increasingly used for political profiling reasons. I will take back the answers of the author to the group, but she remains critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr. Chairman. I have 12 motions, but I'm not filing them! We just have to do what's proposed. It is a practical solution to a practical problem. If the government takes over motions, we don't have to vote on them anymore. The SP Group had two questions. Firstly, is this proposal not frustrated by the fact that one person can ask for a vote? Secondly, is it not even more frustrated by the fact that we are going to make a non-voting statement, which makes a whole series of statements saying why we think that we should have voted? I think that the possibility of requesting a note is a good solution. I think and hope this will work. I think we can also agree that this is how we do this. As far as we are concerned, it will be on the voting list that, in the case of non-voting motions, political groups and individual Members may request a note. I think that's a good solution. Let us do this to see if it works, and let us try to limit ourselves otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the CDA, I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij for his clear answer. If Mr Van der Staaij is going to speak, I am always looking forward to him bringing some historical awareness. He didn't disappoint me this time either. So thank you for that, too. The CDA looks positively at this proposal, because at least the SGP is now taking the initiative to see if we can change anything. The responsibility now lies with us to see if we can deal with it properly. However, there is also a responsibility for other players here in the House of Representatives, namely the ministers and the State Secretary, who will soon have to take over motions if the proposal gets a majority. In practice, it appears that the characterization of "support of policy," "judgment of Chamber," "unneeded" or "dissuade" is often different for each member of the board. How does Mr Van der Staaij intend to ensure that the use of the adoption of motions in the proper way, as the initiator wishes, will be applied by the relevant directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u58	I call Mr Klein. He now departs from his place, walks to the chair and take a separate route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. The ways in which motions are filed are inscrutable. I would like to thank the author of the own-initiative proposal for his comprehensive reply......................................................................................................................................................................................... So we all agree on that. The proposal can only lead to some filtering out on the voting list, but that is not a good idea at all. However, the petitioner has made a nice suggestion that the commitments made by ministers should be included on a list, as with an AO, so that there is no longer any need to table motions in the second term. That will probably matter in the number of motions. I will not table a motion on this, but I think it would be wise, for example, to consider in the working procedure committee how this could be achieved. If I may summarize Mr Van der Staaij's speech, I have to say that this is merely an assumption. I've heard the words "I expect" quite often. It does not lead at all to sharper politics, it does not lead to more statements, he thought, it may lead to some time savings, but perhaps it does not. His final conclusion is: give the practice a chance and then we will evaluate it. In the meantime, we have already amended the Rules of Procedure. In short, the intentions are fine; I wholeheartedly endorse them. However, I do not think that this proposal will solve anything at all. There is nothing legal, while the rules should lead to a goal, such as fewer motions. However, it is completely symptomatic. We get new opportunities again and then we all do so in society in all kinds of ways, here and also outside this house, in search of a way to avoid the rules again and in which we can achieve a different profiling. So nothing will change at all. Especially now that the election time is coming, the counter will slowly rise to the 4,000 motions in 2016. In short, they did a puddle and everything remained as it was. I'll finish with a motion. I think the call for limitation is very sensible. Mr Van der Staaij has indicated that we should not call on the President to read out all these motions, and that should lead to self-limitation among Members of Parliament. I also think, of course, that the President should not have to do so, but that means limiting ourselves. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the parliamentary instrument "motion" is of great value;]] [[expresses its opinion that all motions are read out by the President in accordance with the practice in the First Chamber of the States-General;]] [[requests the President to make a proposal to amend Rule 66 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber of the States-General accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33959-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u60	To enhance the joy of celebration, I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a motion should be tabled within a limited period of time in debates and VOCs;]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber of the States-General, it is only indicated that a maximum speaking time may be fixed per political group taking into account the size of the political groups;]] [[Whereas the Rules of Procedure in Chapter V do not make any distinction between political groups;]] [[In conclusion, having regard to the size of the political groups, all political groups shall have equal speaking time;]] [[calls on the President to act accordingly on the allocation of speaking time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33959-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr Klein has already made an advance on his last motion by using disproportionate speaking time. Anyway, that's his right. I would like to return to his first motion, which states that the President will read out all the motions in future. I wonder what Mr Klein thinks of that as profit. Where's the profit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u62	As far as speaking time is concerned, given the nature of this proposal, I do not see any reason for any restriction at all. So I think that remark was a little inappropriate. I also think that we should treat each other equally and that the principle of equality in a democracy should also be properly understood. As far as the other point is concerned, it is really a question of how to achieve self-limitation. That self-limitation may be because you do not do it to the chairman to read out all those motions. In conjunction with Mr Van der Staaij's suggestion that all the commitments should be properly considered, this may lead to fewer motions. You can see that in the First Chamber. I can see Mr Van Raak standing by the microphone. He has experience in the First Chamber and knows that the number of motions there is very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u63	On the contrary, it seems to me very honorable to have your motion read out by the President. That feels good in the First Chamber, too. I therefore believe that the opposite will be the case and that we would very much like to have this chairman read out all the motions. I will therefore give my group a negative opinion on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u64	And in the First Chamber, 100 motions per week are not on average filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u65	Exactly. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u66	No, that's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u67	I have some substitute shame after all. We are having a debate here on the fact that far too many motions are being tabled. Mr Klein was the first to say that it is time for cultural change. Now he is tabling two motions which have very little to do with the subject, with the proposal itself. Apart from the content, which we do not agree with, that is why we should vote against it. I think this is a bit of a show.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u68	That's a personal fact. I do not quite understand what Mr Van Raak is talking about. You cannot agree with the substance; that is the right of every political group, but it is about tabling motions. A motion has a very different effect from an amendment. If I wanted an amendment to the proposal, I would have tabled an amendment. I do not do that because I agree with this proposal: once it is there, we will not be difficult to put it into practice. That does not mean, however, that there is nothing you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u69	I agree with Mr Van Raak's criticism. In this way a bit of a display is made by a party that apparently has to do so in order to get into the spotlight. Let me be very specific. Why does Mr Klein not withdraw these motions in the spirit of this whole debate? Also in the spirit of what he himself has argued, I ask Mr Klein: withdraw both motions and please do not be so childish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u70	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u71	When it comes to the childish motions that always come from the PVV: I like that too. However, I have no opinion on these motions. Everyone has the democratic right to do so. Yeah, I think it's wise to consider moving in. However, we have agreed on a special procedure for motions addressed to the President. They are not put directly to the vote. They shall first be accompanied by oral or written comments. I look forward to seeing that answer. At that point, I can consider whether it is wise to withdraw the motion, yes then no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u72	I agree with what my colleagues have said about the motions that Mr Klein has now tabled. It shows the problem we are dealing with. I am sorry that we have only heard this motion now, because otherwise I could have asked the author of the proposal, Mr Van der Staaij, what he would have found of a possible other solution to the problem, namely to be more selective in supporting the tabling of motions. I can't ask that question anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u73	You've done it now, haven't you? Thank you very much, Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u74	No, Mr President, Mr Taverne has asked me a clear question. He asked if it would be wise to do this because it would be a display. Perhaps that is precisely why we are having this discussion at all. Mr Van der Staaij also has the opportunity to take over my motions. We shall now proceed to the second deadline of the petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u75	Madam President. It's not very often that I'm standing here a little bit with some sort of substitute shame. We have a very important debate in which we discuss motions very well, and then two such motions are tabled. That's weird. Then a fellow Member also says very nicely: well, then I will get an answer from the President and then I will see what I can do with the motion. Everyone's thing. I didn't want to go so far as not to raise my hand, but I do hope that these motions won't make it. Apart from the content, I am particularly prepared by Mr Klein's first motion for a resolution to present to the President at least a bag of Fisherman's Friends. What Mr Klein wants with this motion, regardless of its content, is also insane. I am therefore offering this to the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u77	I would like to comment on Mrs Fokke's first remarks. Of course, I distance myself from that. It is, of course, completely unusual in this house to judge each other by the quality of each other's motions other than by saying that you simply disagree or by voting against. Mrs. Fokke has every right to do that. That makes sense, too. For the rest, they are all qualifications that perhaps say more about the way in which Mrs Fokke deals with motions than about what we have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u78	I note one thing, and that is that in this debate the Chamber has been talking about itself for longer than until 11.45 p.m., the planned end time of this debate. Mr Van der Staaij is making a proposal. I have already said what the Labour Party is like: let us just try this, unless someone really comes up with a better proposal. Mr Van der Staaij also said that we should evaluate this after a year. I think that's all right. Mr Van der Staaij cannot look in a glass ball either. It therefore seems logical to me that he should answer questions that he does not know exactly. Let's just try, please. I am a little surprised that we have once again managed to table two motions during this debate. Not at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u79	Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiator for his comprehensive answer. I understand from that that it really went wrong around the sixties. Mr Van der Staaij will agree with me that much more went wrong in the 1960s. I am also looking at my colleague from D66. I keep having second thoughts. It remains difficult to enforce desired behaviour on MPs through legislation and regulations to the level of detail. I believe that self-regulation in particular must be put in order. I think we should also look at the role of the whips, the secretaries of the political groups. They could perhaps play a disciplining role. After all, every motion is sanctioned by the group concerned. Perhaps we should take a look at that too. The intervention of fellow spokesmen can also work disciplinedly. They can insist extensively and forcefully on the withdrawal of an unnecessary motion. Unfortunately, that was not possible today. In this way we can come to take-and-shaming ourselves: look, another member who wants to get an unnecessary motion in his name. I am taking the initiative proposal to my group. It will take a decision on the proposal after I have given a careful counter-opinion, precisely because my group attaches great importance to that control, but also to thinking with one another and to strengthening party positions on a political basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u80	I note that Mr Van der Staaij can reply immediately. I call Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank colleagues for their second-term response. I look forward to the alternatives of the VVD. That group has regularly expressed its regret at the large number of motions, but I have not yet seen any concrete proposals to reduce the number of motions. I'm anxious to wait. Of course, I continue to hope for the support for this proposal, at least as a serious attempt to give the second filter a chance to limit further the motions that have already been tabled. We are talking about being more selective by voting by show of hands. Practice has shown that this is very difficult. Then you get some sort of substantive weighting. On what basis are you going to have a vote by show of hands? That can also create a lot of confusion. Perhaps the practice of showing hands may also be taken into account when submitting a motion. When are you or aren't you gonna raise your hand? What are the backgrounds to the support of four MPs needed to file a motion? Isn't that a wash nose? I think it would be a good idea to include this in an evaluation of the Rules of Procedure. It has been quite a while since the Rules of Procedure have been reviewed. Perhaps this can be taken into account in the Working Method Committee. However, that does not take place in this debate. I would also like to thank Mr Van Raak for his support. It is indeed a practical solution to a practical problem. In fact, he replied to a comment made by Mr Beertema in his contribution in the first term. I have not mentioned this in so many words, but the proposal not only allows political groups to ask for a note, but also individual Members of Parliament. They might as well ask for a note. This could reflect Mr Beertema's point that an individual Member should have been able to say that a motion should not have been taken over. Perhaps this will help Mr Beertema to support this proposal. Thank you for the comments made by Mrs Bruins Slot and for her positive response. She had the specific question of how the rulers are going to proceed with this. This is a very valid point. Should the proposal be given a majority, the directors must be prepared for it. I could practically imagine that the President would come into contact with the Cabinet in order to draw attention to this amendment of the Rules of Procedure, as the members of the government should also be well aware of this. Then Mr Klein. I had hoped that I could have said that at least this debate had not produced any motions, but unfortunately Mr Klein did something he himself warned about when he wondered whether too many motions would be tabled again. He has tabled two motions which are somewhat strange in the context of this debate. That certainly applies to the second motion. However, I cannot deny that it is his parliamentary right to do so. The only thing he can't do, and what he did ask me, is take over his motions. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for the possibility of adopting motions for resolutions. If Mr Klein really wanted to do so, he should support this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. On this point, therefore, his argument was contradictory. I'll leave it at that. Mr Klein noted that everything you say about the future is assumptions, because you do not yet know how it really will work in practice. That is what we have in common here. You can put on very gloomy glasses and you can look at them a little more rosy, but it is indeed about the way it will be if there is a possibility that is not there yet. There is no other way to talk about this than in terms of expectations. I therefore do not think that this is a justified criticism of the way in which I also assess the positive effects of this proposal. I thank Mrs Fokke for her support. I underline her words. I also think it is desirable that the proposal should be evaluated after one year, so that we also know whether it meets the expectations. I would also like to thank Mr Beertema for his response. I support his point that the first task remains to reduce the offer of motions, which each has its own role in them, and that the groups themselves have a role to play in doing so. I'd like to support that encouragement. That was my answer. I hope for sufficient support from the Chamber. Let's give it a chance!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr van der Staaij, I would like to thank you very much for your proposal. As President, regardless of what groups are going to do in the end, I have followed this debate with more than average interest. It was more than just the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure on motions for resolutions. It was also about questions such as how we act as a Chamber, how we operate and how we deal with the instruments we have to give the Chamber a strong position. So it was also a piece of self-reflection. I would like to thank you very much for that. I hope that this discussion will continue. In the framework of the estimates, of course, there are also the necessary points of discussion. Not only do I want to thank you, but also your associate Willem de Wildt for his support. We will vote on Tuesday on the proposal and on the motions. Then Mr Klein will have another reaction on behalf of the Bureau.
