ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. It seems to be today's complimentary day. Let me therefore congratulate this Minister. That is what he deserves, and I mean it sincerely. This minister repeatedly shows that coffeeshop policy in the way it is now being implemented is a problem for him, but he keeps his back straight against the challenges. As far as he is concerned, no broadening of policy and no experiments. Thank you very much for that, also on behalf of the courageous mothers who continue to fight against the image of the blissful, satisfied choking smoker. It's poison that poisons our youth. Above all, we would like to congratulate the Minister for not making it easy for him. What started in a few places where a few people smoked a joint and then didn't act on it, got completely out of hand. Meanwhile, we are faced with large department stores, selling weed that doesn't suffer for hard drugs. That's terrible, and this is the CDA a thorn in the eye. Fortunately, a few brave mayors are acting against it. Take the mayor of Leiden, the surgery because a coffee shop had too large a trading stock. There was a whole course of justice, but the end result seems to be that that maleized coffee shop needs to be opened again. The mayor shouldn't have shut him down because the criminal court would have ruled that the trading stock was necessary. Is that right? We would like an explanation of the statement of the Minister's Council of State. It cannot be that we are empty-handed in front of these coffee shops and that they are the only department stores that will be standing up in the Netherlands. As far as we are concerned, that is the failure of the policy and can stop it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for her compliments. In all honesty, I say that it had escaped me that today is complimentary day. I remember a very funny video on the Internet that portrays this room on another day, pajamas day, in which I was also allowed to play a short role. I'm very pleased with my compliments day. I would therefore like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for her compliments, knowing that a large part of the Chamber, not the majority, but a large part of the House, might think differently and would like to congratulate the government on this matter at a different time and for a different policy. In any case, I can tell Mrs Van Toorenburg that I am very well-off with her compliments. I, too, have taken note of the ruling of the Council of State. That judgment is based on a judgment of the court in an appeal, in which the court found that in a specific case, in a specific criminal case, no conviction could take place because it had to be doubted whether there had been more than 500 grams in the coffee shop in question. The Council of State then considered that the ruling of the Court could not maintain the measure taken by the mayor. As Mrs Van Toorenburg will understand, it is not for me to give an exegesis of that, but I do consider this case to be stand-alone. The tolerance policy we are currently pursuing in the Netherlands means that strict conditions are laid down in the Note Opium Act and that under these strict conditions no criminal action will be taken against the sale of hemp products listed on the list 2 of the OPium Act. If an excessive stock is found, the Public Prosecutor can prosecute and the mayor has the opportunity to close the coffee shop or withdraw the permit. That's right, and it's gonna stay that way. The policy is not being changed. This policy has also led to convictions in many cases. I understand that the municipality of Leiden is currently studying the ruling and will inform the city council about it. I will not go into that further, because it is mainly a local issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-5.u3	Then I am very glad that we have been able to ask these questions today. Maybe the people who wrote about the verdict, including lawyers, had themselves been a little overwhelmed when they read that statement, but it should be quite clear that that statement does not ultimately destroy our tolerance policy. As far as we are concerned, the policy of tolerance should never have been there; let us be clear about that. It's an evil we unfortunately have to deal with. However, it is good that the Minister can assure us that the policy should not eventually be extended and that too large trading stocks can be dealt with. We want a very strict policy of tolerance. We'd rather have them all closed, but never let it be that we're going the wrong way. I'm so glad the Minister was able to give that explanation today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-5.u4	I consider that to be a second compliment on the day of compliments, for which I am very grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-5.u5	Let me not go along with the compliments for this last play; I would almost call it that. There have been compliments, but the Council of State has made a statement which we must do something with. I would very much like to hear from the Minister that he is going to do something with this statement, but also with the recent UNG report. I hope that in the long term I will be able to congratulate him on this. In practice, we do not see smoking lawyers, but problems in the country caused by the current, bankrupt tolerance policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-5.u6	I was afraid the complimentary day would be short-lived. That's what it turns out to be. As I have said, the ruling of the Council of State is based on a ruling of the Court. This is a specific case. I see that particular case as an isolated case. Mrs Volp refers to the VNG. The VNG has set up a working group that has come up with a report. That report has yet to be discussed within the VNG. I've informed the Chamber about that. That meeting was scheduled for June. Following the outcome of that discussion, I will inform the Chamber further. However, this issue rests with the VNG itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-5.u7	I'd be happy to join the complimentary day. Congratulations to the CDA, too, because this party is increasingly moving away from the policy of tolerance. I really think that's worth a compliment, in the light of history. The Minister says that the court ruling concerns an occasional case, but can no more mayors argue that in the assessment of what is bad life behavior, such facts apparently do not count sufficiently? Shouldn't it be considered whether the strengthening of legislation is possible and necessary to support powerful mayors such as Leiden?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-tweedekamer-5.u8	I understand Mr Van der Staaij's question and I am glad that complimentary day is back in its old form. For me, I really see this ruling as a judgment in an individual case in an individual case, as an individual judgment of the Court on which the Council of State based itself. In general, I see no effect on mayors taking measures. Of course, they will always be at risk of thinking differently, but in principle I do not see that this statement changes the practice for mayors in a general sense.
