ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u1	I give the floor to Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. As previous speakers have pointed out, today we are talking about one of the largest legislative operations in modern Dutch history, which aims to overhaul environmental law in its entirety. The drafting of this bill has a long history. Even after this treatment, the process has not yet ended. In the coming years, we will have additional and introduction laws coming to us. A considerable number of General Administrative Measures and ministerial arrangements have also to be drawn up. The D66 Group sees that it recognises the urgency of harmonising fragmented legislation. However, this urgency should not lead to the exclusion of the Second and First Chambers in the drafting of the AMvBs, especially now that they are so crucial for the further implementation of the Environment Act. The way in which the Minister and her officials have dealt with communication about this change and bundling to society deserves our compliments, but communication is of course not everything. The end of the journey is far from coming before this legislative operation. As the British say so beautifully: the proof of the pudding is in the eating. And indeed, the practice will learn whether the minister will continue to communicate as openly as there will be criticism and improvement points on the implementation and implementation process of this Environment Act. My group hopes that these implementing rules will not once again create a forest of rules in which only specialist environmental lawyers see the forest through the trees. On that point, we would like to reassure the Minister. "Rules about protecting and exploiting the physical environment" and "simply better": that sounds so simple. Of course it's not. After all, we are a densely populated country with a small area and great ambitions. Citizens, businesses and directors do not always have the same interests. There will always be tension between protecting the environment so that we can enjoy, for example, clean air, clean water and a beautiful landscape on the one hand, and exploiting the same environment for economic growth on the other. We all want to set up the living environment in our country for future generations in such a way that they too can live in a healthy and prosperous country. How do you judge this extensive revision of the law? The D66 Group supports the core idea of the bill to come from "no, unless" to "yes, if." We see that this proposal offers many opportunities: opportunities for citizens to have more influence on their immediate living environment, opportunities for local authorities to direct the design of space, and to protect the health and safety of their inhabitants. It also offers opportunities for sustainable activity for small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, and for large, complex organisations in the port of Rotterdam or the Chemelot site in South Limburg. You understand that I had to mention Rotterdam for a while, of course. My group has also noted that the parliamentary debate on the other side has led to a number of important issues being strengthened and framed. I am thinking of the subject of health, which has been given a more central place in the law. In doing so, it will be possible for local authorities to refuse or modify a permit if there are potentially serious adverse effects on health. That is a good thing. Viability and health are seen by my group as inextricably linked. However, the question remains as to who the burden of proof lies with when there is a potential risk of harmful effects on health in the case of, for example, construction or expansion of companies. With the government, the applicant or the citizen? I'd like a response from the Minister. The D66 Group is satisfied that participation is explicitly included in the evaluation pathways of the Environment Act. My group welcomes the fact that the Minister is going to look at the drafting of the law on legal certainty for citizens and whether the use of flexibility provisions leads to more or less court proceedings. After all, an important question in our written input was where citizens stand in the tension between flexibility and legal certainty. Of course, we still have quite a few questions. This is not surprising in the case of a law which does provide frameworks but requires further clarification in so many areas. The key question is whether this legislative proposal does indeed make it easier and better for the three groups of citizens, businesses and directors when it comes to protecting and exploiting our living environment. An important question in its assessment is whether the assumptions underlying this large-scale system review are always correct. What makes it complicated is that, of course, no one can predict how this framework law will work in practice. In addition, when this proposal comes into force, there will be a major implementation path. This means that a considerable number of substantive standards have not yet been adopted and cannot therefore be assessed. Why did the Minister actually choose to fill in so many standards through lower regulation? My group asked a large number of questions during the written rounds. The Minister has answered a considerable part of the question in detail and clearly, for which I would like to thank him. With a number of questions asked, the answers have not yet been able to fully address all our concerns. In addition, my group from the country receives disturbing reports from municipalities that are not yet ready to work with the law. We read the final evaluation pilots environmental vision, the progress report of the Crisis and Recovery Act, the Council's opinions on the environment and infrastructure and the recent report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau on the involvement of citizens in the Environment Act. These reports, together with various discussions with experts, civil society organisations, business and directors, give rise to a number of questions for the Minister we would like to know more about. Furthermore, my group also shares concerns expressed earlier by previous speakers about the role of ICT, the perseverance of different levels of government and the concerns about deadlines related to legal certainty. In this plenary debate, the D66 Group will focus on three themes: participation, sustainability and cross-border impacts. First, I'm going into participation. The Environment Act affects everyone in the Netherlands. Whether it's the neighbor's fence, a highway, an industrial site, megastals or wind farms: every citizen, driver and owner of a company has to deal with the layout of the living environment. That is why my group attaches great importance to the involvement of citizens in the organisation of their physical environment and wide possibilities for participation and participation in the choices surrounding the organisation of their living environment. In my group's view, it is therefore important that local authorities take sufficient time to participate carefully at the beginning of the exploration phase and project decisions. This is crucial for achieving sustainable profit at the back of the process. In addition, this legislative proposal makes the role of citizens even more important. It is good that amendment now lays down the legal framework for an initiator to submit data on participation and consultation with stakeholders when applying for an environmental authorisation, but what does this mean in practice? Then what's being tested? The fact that there's been a partition? Or to what extent has the wishes and objections been met? I'd like to hear how the Minister sees this. Participation is bespoke. The D66 Group fully agrees with the Minister. Moreover, participation should never lead to a reduction in legal certainty or remedies. I assume the Minister sees that as well. However, there is still a concern of my group here. It is, of course, up to the local authorities themselves how they deal with the input of citizens, businesses and civil society organisations in the preparation of environmental visions, programmes and environmental plans. However, there is always a question of how representative the active participants are in the preparation of plans and decisions that can have a profound impact on the living environment. How can the administrative bodies be maximised and assisted, if necessary, in order to organise participation as effectively as possible, including in the area of representativeness? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. How, for example, does the Minister intend to prevent only a small group of citizens with time, expertise, a network and political will from taking part in decisions on environmental visions and project decisions? The government itself, of course, is also in the process of organising participation in the national environment vision. Does the Minister have any ideas as to how she intends to regulate this participation? Could the Minister perhaps draw on the experience and lessons learned in the meantime from the three major decentralisations in the social domain, because civil participation is also a crucial condition for the success of these decentralisations? Does the Minister see other possibilities to facilitate sharing experience with participation, so that these data and experience can be easily accessed by other public authorities which can serve as examples of successful initiatives? Is the government prepared to provide insight into the best practices in the field of participation at local level on the Lean van de Levenenvironment in the long term? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. A theme that is strongly linked to participation is cultural change. The success of the implementation of the Environment Act will largely depend on cultural change among citizens, businesses and administrators. The pilot evaluation has questioned the ambition to make the necessary cultural change happen within the various levels of government within a few years. It goes without saying that this cultural change does not occur within one year. That would also be an unrealistic expectation. Respondents, however, have questioned the possibility that a cultural change will succeed at all in the pilot evaluation. How does the Minister view these concerns? In the foreword of the final report on the pilot's environmental vision, it is literally stated that anyone who wants to change nothing can still come a long way under the new Environmental Act. Let us be honest, however much my group wants this law to help simplify the administrative landscape, we will continue to deal with administrative complexity at the various levels of government for the time being. What is the Minister's response to this claim? How does she intend to prevent this? I come to the second theme: sustainability. I mentioned earlier as a key question: does this bill indeed make it simpler and better for citizens, businesses and drivers when it comes to protecting and exploiting our living environment? Let us also bear in mind the following question: what is the "environment" of the proposal? Is the Environmental Law also simply better for nature, health and the environment? In the explanatory statement, the Minister writes that it is important for an integrated approach to the physical environment to ensure maximum co-ordination between the Nature Protection Act and the Environment Act, including through the integration of policy and vision formation. This is in turn ensured by the fact that parts of the nature vision that are relevant to the quality and management of the physical environment become part of the vision of the environment. How is this integration of policy and vision building between nature conservation and this Environment Act secured at the municipal level? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Another question from my group concerns environmental values, or standards that define the desired state or quality of the physical environment as a policy objective. The Empire and the provinces are obliged to set environmental values for a number of subjects. As has been said, my group is in favour of establishing some important values in the law and not in the AMvBs. This obligation does not apply to municipalities. If we do not set minimum environmental values for clean water, clean air and noise reduction, are we not at risk of exceeding these national environmental values by cumulation in certain areas? I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. During the written rounds, the D66 Group also asked the Minister whether this bill contributes to improving environmental quality by also giving business space and incentives for sustainable business. My group is not yet fully reassured by the Minister's answers and would appreciate a more detailed explanation. Does this Environment Act, in the Minister's view, offer sufficient opportunities to promote an attractive environment for sustainable activity and, if so, in what way? The government has previously indicated that it stimulates green growth by, for example, adapting laws and regulations where they hinder green innovations or sustainable action. A recent paper by the Planning Bureau for the Environment on green growth stresses the importance of facilitating innovations by providing experimental space.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Does the Minister see a steering role for the government here? Does it intend to include measures towards a sustainable society in implementing legislation? Finally, Mr President, we have heard critical noises from the province about empty positions, which give rise to a question to the Minister. A number of provinces state that it is no longer possible for them under the Environmental Law to directly regulate unwanted spatial developments within existing municipal environmental plans. They argue that the project decision, as an alternative to the integration plan, is not sufficient in existing cases of vacancy but only for new projects. However, the problem of emptiness lies precisely in existing cases. My group would appreciate a response from the Minister to the problem outlined. How will municipalities and provinces be able to prevent existing vacancy under the Environmental Act in a joint approach? This brings me to my final issue, namely the cross-border aspects. In the explanatory statement, the Minister writes that the strong economic growth of the last century is not yet under control on all fronts. Let alone, the Minister says, global challenges, such as combating climate change, preserving biodiversity and the dependence on scarce raw materials. In this connection, the Minister notes that the culture of "growth due to exhaustion" has cumulative consequences. Residents in border areas of our neighbouring countries may be affected by measures on this side of the border, as is the reverse. Quality of the environment and protection of nature and health are not always determined by borders, whether they are local, regional or national. The concerns of inhabitants of Zeeland, North Brabant and Limburg about the risks of nuclear power plants on the other side of their border are a good example of this. The D66 Group wholeheartedly supports the need to focus on extra-local aspects between different stakeholders in neighbouring municipalities and provinces within the implementation of the Environment Act. However, my group wonders how the Minister can contribute to the fact that municipalities are not guilty of not-in-my-backyard behaviour, i.e., shifting difficult projects literally to the border of another municipality. In addition, as far as my group is concerned, the attention given to the European and international component should be even more clearly highlighted by the Minister. The Environment Council also noted the lack of a thoughtful view on international aspects of the Environment Act. The Minister's D66 Group would like to hear her views on this. How does the Minister intend to give European and international elements a place in the definition of the national environment vision? Examples include issues such as CO emissions, the cross-border accumulation of air pollution, water pollution and good handling of scarce raw materials. My group is particularly interested in what the Minister thinks about how the Environment Act can contribute to achieving the goals set out in the Paris climate agreement. My group sees a lot of opportunities and opportunities with this law. We have taken a critical look at the elements of the proposal that potentially aim at good things for the living environment, but we are questioning the balance between exploiting and protecting that environment. My group is looking forward to the Minister's answers to our questions, particularly as to whether we can get the full potential out of this system review when it comes to participation, health, the environment and nature at national and international level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. The establishment of the Environment Act is one of the largest legislative operations ever in our country. We are only determining the contours today, but a law whose contours are already very diffuse and unclear carries great dangers, partly because of its importance and far-reachingness. Of course, it is to keep well-established laws and rules under review and to see if they might be made easier. The crucial question, however, is whether this law adequately protects the interests of the weakest from the law of the strongest. What protection remains for clean air, a safe and healthy living environment, the greenery in the cities and villages and our natural areas? Those are values that cannot stand up for themselves. How much room remains to adequately defend their interests? A system change such as this should be future-proof, given the crises we are currently facing; the "overshoot" that the Netherlands commits by predatory building on global stocks, our energy and food supply, climate and biodiversity. In order to deal with these crises, rules should be laid down within environmental law. Is this law going to prevent our physical environment from deteriorating further? Does this law help in the transition to a sustainable society? The Minister must remain guilty of the answer, because she comes with just the contours of a law. A missed opportunity is that this system review appears to be completely blank compared to one of the greatest transitions that our time is taking. A law should be complemented by instruments and procedures that allow adaptation to climate change and transition to a sustainable society at the level of law rather than at the level of underlying regulation. The clearer goals are, the more innovative parties become to come up with new solutions. However, the government now chooses to remove all clear targets from the law. If it had been up to the government, it would have put Parliament completely out of play in determining the final rules and protection. Apparently, the government does not appreciate Parliament's involvement, as much as the citizen's participation. What reasons did the government have for not initially including prior or follow-up clauses in these AMvBs? Why does it once again opt for legislation at AMvB, against which so much criticism has already been voiced in this House? Is this the wish of the PvdA and the VVD? I can hardly imagine. Or does the PvdA once again bow to the dictation of the VVD, as was the case with the Nature Protection Act, as is still fresh in our memory? That law gives a carte blanche to hobby hunters, while the PvdA had promised to abolish that yacht. Why rule at AMvB and why without front and afterhang if it had been up to the cabinet? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The cabinet is putting Parliament out of play to an important extent. The argument put forward by the Minister in previous debates, namely that the Chamber can still decide on everything once the introduction law is in place, is a form of administrative procrasticism that does not fit in with the criticism that has recently been expressed many times in this house about governing at AMvB. It is only when the introduction law is being dealt with that everything can be considered in conjunction and the effects can be assessed. The introduction law, with the changes that will be made later, the AMvBs and the supplemental laws constitute a huge package of new information in which a labyrinth of AMvBs will be technically complex. Changing an AMvB concept, for example, to better protect the environment or public health than is proposed, is expected to require more time than is available in the procedure for dealing with an AMvB. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. How can it say that the involvement of the Chamber is secured, which would be self-evident according to the letter on the reform of the system? The question is, therefore, whether that little bit of certainty, often referred to in earlier discussions as "destabilization," for the protection of the environment would not be a better starting point for this law than a mantra as "sustainable development," on which the cabinet now says it is committed. In a policy cycle in which development is particularly open, economic interests will soon prevail in the balancing of interests of administrative bodies. At a decentralised level, standards can be set, but what if standards are created or certain standards are omitted which are of great importance for clean air and water quality in order to allow more room for activity? What if important values in the field of nature and the environment are not decentralised? Where is the national safety net, I ask the Minister. The national government can transfer the direction of all kinds of protection regimes to the decentralised level, but many measures, such as those concerning guaranteeing water quality, clean air and to some extent climate adaptation, require a central standard in a small country like ours. A good example is that last week it was announced that residents of nuclear power plants will be given iodine pills within a radius of 100 kilometres as a precautionary measure for a possible nuclear disaster. If you draw a circle with a radius of 100 kilometres around all nuclear power stations in the Netherlands and in the Belgian and German border regions, you will see that all of the Netherlands should receive iodine pills. These cross-region interests are characteristic of many things that should be regulated in this Environmental Act, in the areas of climate, biodiversity, dike safety and so on. Where does the Minister's influence lie when these matters are settled at a decentralised level? Earlier decentralisation operations are less rosy than predicted, such as those of home care. What gives the Minister the confidence that this time it will go according to plan? How much security remains for the protection of animals, nature and the environment and for their protection of their interests? The results of the past do not give rise to confidence in the future. As far as we are concerned, a safe and healthy physical environment and good environmental quality must gain more weight in the balance of interests if we are to strengthen the physical environment. Environmental values must be legally secured and require a nationwide safety net, more than just a trust-based relationship. Only then can sustainability be sufficiently secured in the interests of future generations. Even the concept of "physical living environment," which is mostly about, is not defined in the legislative proposal and therefore offers little legal basis. The same applies to the concept of sustainable development, which should continue to provide a good physical environment. It is also unclear how these concepts will be implemented. My group considers this unacceptable in a legislative proposal with such far-reaching consequences. Different principles of environmental law related to sustainability that serve as a starting point for drafting the Environmental Law have been taken directly from European law. The precautionary principle, the principle of preventive action, the source principle, the polluter pays principle and the principle of best available techniques can be considered. One important comment I would like to make here is that the level of protection in the Environment Act does not go beyond what European directives prescribe. This means that stricter application of one or more of the environmental principles mentioned in a European directive cannot, in principle, be required by law. This means that we are moving towards a lower level of protection than we are providing more protection for vulnerable values. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. The review of environmental law is also aimed at strengthening the social involvement of citizens and businesses in the physical environment. However, the legislative proposal does not make it clear to my group what civil society contribution organisations and citizens are expected to make to sustainable development. I would like to hear from the Minister once again clearly what the position of the citizen is in securing the physical environment and how this is enshrined in this law. My group is also concerned about the legal position of citizens. From the answer given by the Minister in the further reply, we point out that citizens will not be able to rely on the protective operation of standards in the environmental plan or regulation, because they would not be interested. After all, the government is interested. Also through the environmental policy of the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen or through structural visions, citizens are apparently unable to call on the courts to protect their environment. What possibilities can an individual citizen have if measurements show that there is an unhealthy or unliving living situation? This situation could arise, for example, if the Programmed Approach Nitrogen proves to have insufficient effect or if insufficient priority is given to enforcement. In the Lower House, the Minister indicated that citizens and organisations could request the maintenance or modification of the programme in respect of programmes and appeal to the judge. Is it really possible for an individual citizen to take action against observed exceedances of standards in his personal living environment, while not being an interested party? I'd like to hear a reaction to this. My group is also deeply concerned about the limitation of the environmental permit, the reduction of the time limit for requesting interim measures of six to two weeks. We agree with Mrs Meijer's request that the deadline be extended to six weeks. An additional point concerns the concerns of the VNG. Following the pre-consultation, it was found that local authorities were still unclear about local standards. Many rules on noise, construction, smell, soil, nature and land or property are lacking. This means that the UNG will only be able to examine this at a later stage. Can the Minister indicate to what extent the AMvB texts are still changing until supplementary laws and decisions are ready? According to the VNG, the identification of the implementation costs is also not possible because of the gaps in the AMvBs. Can it get this clear before the introduction law is dealt with, in order to prevent municipalities from being stuck with a law whose effects they cannot afford? I'd like to hear a reaction to this. My group is also sceptical about the adoption of the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen. As far as the programmatic approach is regulated by law, it is aimed at re-establishing business as usual, while business as usual has brought a lot of good to most people and unfortunately for animals, nature and the environment a lot only. The starting point seems to be always: there is now room for economic development, measures for the environment and nature will come later. It is to be feared that there will be a delay. The legislative proposal does not appear to include any guarantee that these measures will indeed be taken. Why not? Is the government prepared to ensure that in the law of introduction? Is the Minister prepared to include in that proposal a provision on what happens when the promised measures have not been taken, so that those concerned can enforce regulations in the competent authority? If not, why not? How does it intend to provide legal protection for those involved in the implementation of a programmed approach? I have one final comment to make. The Animal Party basically supports the efforts to simplify legislation, but under the pretext of simplification, the protection of nature and the environment and the quality of the environment must not be stripped. A coalition party that wants fewer rules clearly wants less protection. But a coalition party that claims to stand up for fragile values can never agree to that. This is where the bridge builders Samsom and Rutte have been on the other side for a long time and where they seem to be unable to come out, to annoy the voters of, in particular, the Labour Party. According to my group, this environmental law offers more threats than guarantees for the environment. If the Minister cannot remove our concerns about this and make the importance of the weakest subordinate to the law of the strongest, my group cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. "He who owns a field must therefore draw the annual fruits, and make sure that he does not let the ground be exhausted by carelessness, but he must work on it, to deliver the descendants to him, as he has received them, or even better cultivated," said the well-known theologian and lawyer Johannes Calvijn. It is an argument for good care for God's creation, for life of what the earth gives us, but also for ensuring and taking responsibility that the next generation can continue with the earth, if possible in an even better condition. Sustainability is not something new, but a beautiful age-old principle that is also called stewardship in Christian tradition. The Chamber will understand that I had the following questions in mind when I went through the many pages of the Environment Act. Does this law contribute to the good use of our country, serves it to blossom and ensures the care for creation so that we end up leaving our country better for the next generation, or for the Children of State, as we see them above? Is it a good tool for the government that can be steward? Is this law the foundation for a future-proof establishment of our country? Nationally, the Delta programme and the energy transition, which also has a spatial impact, will be the major challenges. But also the national green structure and the position of agriculture and infrastructure are on the agenda. For example, they are explicitly mentioned in the manifesto We make the Netherlands, where 2040 was the horizon. Is this law the proper interpretation of spatial stewardship? The answer to that question is not so simple, but let me start with a compliment. The Minister and all those who support her, the authorities involved and many interest groups have done a great deal of work. This leads to a comprehensive legislative proposal that provides more simplicity in what has been contained so far in a dozen laws and more than 100 AMvBs and ministerial regulations. I am impressed by the many work that has been done in a short period of time and is still being opposed to further implementing the law. However, much of what is in this law will only become lively if the introduction law and the four large AMvBs are known. For example, we will know more about the substantive standardisation. I am referring directly to one of the first concerns of the Christian Union. A more detailed version has been chosen by means of AMvBs with a heavy front suspension procedure. It is so heavy that there is almost no difference with the introduction of a law. Almost. That's what I'm underlining. Where some standards are still in the sectoral laws, they will soon return to the AMvB. However, the opinion of the Council of State on these AMvBs is published on the entry into force of the AMvBs themselves. That is a difference from legislation. In this major operation, therefore, the opinion cannot be taken into account in Parliament's deliberations on the establishment of the AMvBs. That can still be understood in the normal difference between law and AMvB. The Minister also gave that reasoning in response to the questions of the Christian Union Group. However, these AMvBs are bulky and, in addition, partly filled with content previously laid down in a law. I therefore ask the Minister to explain clearly what she now thinks of the profits of this heavy AMvB procedure compared to normal legislation. The Christian Union finds the choice too rigid. There are standards that, in the opinion of the Christian Union Group, should be anchored in the law. I think that is an important example of the water safety standard. There is no country in the world that has such a history of life with, but also fighting the water, resulting in such a robust delta. At the same time, the Netherlands has a tough task to protect its citizens and prepare for climate change. To date, water safety standards have always been laid down in the law. This is also the case with the new flood approach and the associated water safety standards in the Delta Programme. The Minister writes in response to questions from my group that it is her intention that these standards should have the force of law by 1 January 2017. They are initially incorporated into the Water Act system by means of a separate legislative proposal. That bill is still in force and I understand that the Minister is, at the moment, mainly referring to the debate that is taking place under that law. At the same time, it underlines my concern in terms of content. Water safety standards will then be classified as environmental values and, according to the structure of this law, they will later be incorporated into an AMvB. With this, the Environment Act says too little about the value of the delta and about fighting our safety against the water. Where in other areas of soil, noise and nature there is even more to be expected from the European directives, which also have their implementation and provide a basic guarantee, this is lacking. Moreover, the renewed water safety approach is exactly an example of what differentiation between law and AMvB should look like. The standards for the primary quays, the dikes, fit perfectly into an AMvB, but the starting point is that the Christian Union is part of the law. In the present case, that means that the basic level of protection set out in the Delta decision on water safety, which every Dutch citizen must be able to rely on, is included in the law, with the addition that the standard can be made slightly more stringent for reasons of group risk, economy or vital or vulnerable functions. Is the Minister prepared to consider this under the introduction law? Then I'll come to the new trial. This law is accompanied by many expectations of improving participation. When making the plans is well thought out by everyone and everything, it must result in a beautiful and well-considered plan. Active citizenship is encouraged. There are also good examples of this, but my group is concerned. They were underlined in the recent essay of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. First, the SCP notes that the explanatory memorandum tells a lot about the citizen and his role in the physical environment. There you will also find the strength of the citizen involved. However, it is hard to find throughout the legislative text. How does the Minister view these findings? Then I come to the expectation of the extent to which the citizen is involved in the living environment. Previous speakers have also spoken about it. The public authorities are increasingly appealing to citizens in more and more areas. Think of more work, more worry, combining tasks and now being more involved in the organisation of the living environment. In itself this is not wrong, but is it feasible? Is the desired increase in participation a real expectation? What does the Minister base this expectation on? The proper organisation of participation is a task in itself. There are many situations in which the board has an interest, for example because of the land positions and the choices in the construction plan. At the same time, such governance is required to organise a good round of participation in advance, but who or what guarantees the quality and independence of the information? As a former council member of the beautiful city of Utrecht, I know in which neighborhoods a residents' evening gives a great response and in which neighbourhoods a less large one. In short, citizens' participation can be driven, positive but also negative. How's that gonna be secured? In any case, this requires a lot of officials, representatives of the people and administrators. It calls for new sensitivity, professionalism and communication skills. This cultural change also has to do with education. How does the Minister keep his finger on the wrist? How can she be sure that the change in two years' time will be sufficient? What further agreements does she make with VNG and IPO? In what way is this invested? Does that happen by existing means? Will new resources be made available for this? I'm curious. There was at least the check by the local media earlier. However, in many places it leads to an existence in the margins and threatens to disappear. Does the Minister also have discussions on this aspect, which affects the solid and healthy maintenance of local democracy, with the directors of the media and the Interior? From the point of view of citizens' involvement in the physical environment, my group seems wise to ensure that there are good checks-and-balances, and to see with these colleagues how local and regional media play a good role as a hoax, to protect and promote local democracy and ultimately the living environment, which is what we are all talking about. I'd like to get a reaction to this. More consultation on the front, equal legal protection on the back, so I read somewhere. That is good, but the Christian Union Group still has doubts about this. We note that there are shifts. Where previously could be built immediately after granting a permit, two weeks must now be waited. However, in irreversible cases, such as cutting a tree or an activity on a monument, the standard of two weeks also applies. Moreover, the competent authority has the possibility to postpone the time limit and even to exclude the suspensive effect of an interim provision. This can be done for all activities, including irreversible ones. Anyone who looks at the current Wabo (Law on General Environmental Law) can only see that this means a deterioration in legal protection. I ask the Minister to respond to this statement. Can the Commission also clarify when Article 16.79 (3) is correctly applied? What do the words "urgent circumstances" mean? In the case of the Wabo Article 6.2, for the people who write along, only sparing use may be made of this power. Do the same conditions apply and therefore the same judicial review? I'd like to get a clear statement. Is it not better not to apply this provision in this way to irreversible activities and thus to impose the spirit of the Wabo on the new article in the Environment Act? What was the need to realise the two-week extension? Honestly, I hadn't heard that people were waiting for that. And can there be more customisation in irreversible activities, so that we do not have to replant the forest if it was cut too quickly? As regards the relations between the various authorities, previous speakers have also mentioned what is necessary. I agree with a number of their questions, but I would like to touch briefly on one aspect: the project decision that the province can take. The Christian Union considers it a missed opportunity that this no longer includes the removal of planning capacity. It is fighting against the beers when, on the one hand, there are action plans to counter office emptiness and offices to turn to everything, but, on the other hand, there is no brake on the planning capacity. Admittedly, in the Wro (Spatial Planning Act), that instrument has not been widely used, but that does not say much about the need for the future. Why has not a solution been found that takes account of the principle of subsidiarity and gives greater scope to the wish of provinces to reduce planning capacity, if necessary and only then, by means of the project decision? I started my contribution by asking whether this law contributes to good stewardship by government, companies and citizens. The law is a handsome bundling, which helps to find a way in the full width of environmental law. The law rightly seeks the involvement of all in the organisation of our living environment, but there is much work to be done. Moreover, it is impossible to draw conclusions about the implementation of this important law. It's a window law. This principle sometimes goes too far, for example when it comes to water safety standards and the choice of AMvBs. At the same time, a framework law with so much legislation on its way also gives the hope that the final result will give a nice view through the window. I hope, therefore, that with this new environmental law, many will be enthusiastically committed to achieving good spatial planning and good living conditions, not only for now but also for future generations. I started out with a famous reformer who was nuclearly expressing what good care for the earth means. The earth is our common home, in which we all have the responsibility to take care of creation. This law will have to contribute to that good care. This is precisely why the Christian Union has questions about the content of the law (water safety, good participation, equal legal protection). I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today we have a law to deal with, in fact, a major review of environmental law and one of the biggest legislative operations of the last few decades. The cabinet believes that this is necessary because the current legislation is too fragmented about dozens of laws, no longer fits in with today's social developments and is not sufficiently focused on sustainable development, the need for early involvement of stakeholders and on the importance of integrated policies. The government also says that the balance sheet is too secure and not enough for growth aimed at sustainable development. It therefore relies on a paradigm change from "no, unless" to "yes, if." So four concrete improvements have to be achieved with this Environment Act. This involves increasing transparency, predictability and ease of use, a coherent approach, increasing administrative discretion and speeding up and improving decision-making. We agree with the cabinet that more comprehensive policies and more coherence in laws, rules and procedures around the living environment are needed, with more attention being paid to sustainable development and more involvement and participation of society. We can also support more customisation and flexibility, but they must be well secured. Good guarantees for the quality of the living environment, the environment, nature, health, legal protection and participation are crucial for us. We are very concerned about this, because is the balance between administrative space and the scope for development and flexibility, on the one hand, and the protection of health, the environment and nature, on the other, sufficiently regulated by this law? Are these guarantees of legal protection and citizens' participation in order? We have great doubts about this. We also have fundamental reservations about the nature of this law. It is a framework law, which lays down too much content and too many crucial procedures in underlying legislation, in such a way that it is in fact impossible to assess whether this law will meet the objectives. I will go into more detail about our main objections, first and foremost about the framework law. The Council of State also stated in its opinion that essential standards and a careful limitation of the regulatory power delegated to the Board should be laid down in the law in a formal sense. The Council of State also notes that the objective of providing an equivalent level of legal protection to the current legal system is not being achieved everywhere. The Council also states, although modified by amendment, that EU principles and review frameworks on the basis of which further substantive standards are drawn up or licence applications are reviewed should be included in the legislative proposal. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance agrees with the Council of State. In this way, it is not possible for Parliament to assess whether this law achieves the goals. With the Council of State, we believe that this law does not adequately reflect the co-legislative role of parliament. Important rules and basic material choices belong in the law, so that Parliament can have a full input as co-legislator. This cannot be done by General Administrative Measures, even when there is a veil. Amendment is not possible, and it is also limited in terms of time and method of treatment. The inclusion in the law provides more certainty and clarity in legal procedures, especially when there is conflicting AMvBs or a conflict between the law and the AMvB. The law always prevails and thus provides more legal certainty and clarity. Groningen legal scholars argued that the incorporation of principles, procedures and review frameworks into the law has an orderly and harmonizing effect and contributes to the predictability of public action. This also increases awareness for citizens and other stakeholders. We believe that the environmental values now regulated by law should also be regulated in the Environment Act, even though there is now more regulation in the area of veils. The Minister argues that the introduction law can still regulate certain issues at law level, but it would be strange if we would have to repair all kinds of far-reaching omissions at the introduction law. I would like to make a few comments on environmental values. In addition to the fact that we would like them to be regulated at law level, we have to note that the arrangements in the two AMvBs are also inadequate, because they are not regulated for all important aspects. Although for air, water, external safety and primary quays, but not for noise, smell and CO. Noise standards are regulated by law and that is a good thing, because noise is incredibly important for people's health. Standards for odour and odour nuisance are currently regulated by law, but are left entirely to the local authorities. There should be at least a basic quality, a basic standard, for example in the areas with intensive livestock farming in Brabant. There is a great problem there and we see that local authorities often opt for business expansion because of economic interests. The House of Representatives instructed the Cabinet, by motion of colleague Van Tongeren, to establish an environmental value for CO, a national ceiling. However, the cabinet will pass this on. Frankly, this surprises us very much. However, in view of the climate agreement and the ruling of the judge, it would be very important to have a clear standard for CO that boosts sustainable development and innovation. Why isn't the Cabinet picking up this glove? We also lack an environmental value for landscape. It could be established at provincial level, but the law should provide for an obligation to do so. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether some of these environmental values should or could not be laid down in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u6	An environmental value for landscape I find an interesting suggestion. With regard to GroenLinks with such environmental values, could the installation of huge wind turbines in very important Dutch landscapes be countered? Does Mrs Fox see the value of that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u7	As far as I am concerned, every landscape needs to look at its crucial features to see if any particular activity intervenes in it. Then it is very much the question whether you can place windmills everywhere. I agree with Mr Van Hattem. By the way, he supported the participation of citizens and we agree on that. Here, too, the guarantee and participation of people must be better regulated. Important assessment frameworks need to be regulated at law level. That is a very important point for my group. How, for example, will it be assessed whether activities meet quality requirements for nature, environment and health? It is quite a fundamental difference whether it is stated in an AMvB that you have to respect a certain requirement for the environment and health, that is to say that you have to comply with it, or that you have to take account of those environmental or health values. Because then you can deviate from it. As far as my group is concerned, these types of basic choices really belong at the level of the law. By the way, how do you assess whether a licence obligation is at issue or whether that licence requirement can be abolished? Such basic choices should be made in the law. We are therefore concerned about the way in which the Minister will guarantee the equivalent level of protection she claims to pursue. She wants to guarantee us that this will be done at AMvB as well. In line with the developments that have been taking place over the past period and which can also be seen more broadly, this law is based on decentralisation. Where possible, the municipality is committed in consultation with its citizens and other stakeholders. Article 2.3 provides that the exercise of tasks and powers under this law is left to the administrative bodies of the municipality, unless... The law wants to give more room for administrative considerations at local and also provincial level, so that more tailor-made work is possible and more space is available for local experiments and area-related renewal. We agree with this, provided that the Empire sets clear frameworks within which that space can be taken. We are very concerned about that; that is really a pain for us. The law does not provide sufficient frameworks and safeguards. In fact, everything at local level seems to be left to those things for which we as a country are at European level. The city council has the environmental plan, which is a good tool, but for which there are indeed a number of safeguards missing. Municipalities can include environmental values, but they are not required to do so. There are rules of instruction from the Empire for a number of topics, but there are not many of them. There's a lot of local space there. In the event of an imminent exceedance of an environmental value, the competent authority, such as B and W, must draw up a programme to ensure compliance with the environmental value. But what happens to aspects for which no environmental value has been established? For smell, for example, the municipality is free to decide. There is therefore no mandatory monitoring. How does a municipality find out in good time that an environmental value will indeed be exceeded? Will a basic quality of the environment be guaranteed in this way? I'd like a response from the Minister. Also for the assessment of whether or not there is a licence requirement for an activity and for granting or refusing licences, municipalities have a lot of space. That sounds great, but what's this gonna mean in practice? Municipalities like to bring companies in. There is nothing wrong with a municipality working for employment and the economy. But it is if this is at the expense of crucial protection. We see a high risk that municipalities will end up in a race to the bottom in their competition among themselves in order to attract as much activity as possible. We believe that a steering framework, which everyone has to abide by, is necessary in order to prevent this from happening. That actually offers a level playing field. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u8	I hear Mrs Vos expressing concerns on a number of points about the area of policy for the municipalities. I can tell she thinks that goes too far. How much confidence does she have in her fellow party members who are trying to achieve a number of things at local level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u9	I don't want to say the word "trust" so quickly here. Quite clear frameworks are important, including basic standards that everyone has to abide by. Within these frameworks and those basic standards, a municipality can make trade-offs. The reality is that one municipality, which very much wants to bring in a certain company, might find it a little easier to consider that some protective rules are less important than any other municipality. We believe that this framework should be the same for everyone in the Netherlands, so that everyone knows where they stand, including municipalities and companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u10	But the other municipality, which is very keen to combat the fine dust deposition in the city centre and therefore imposes stricter requirements on diesel cars, must also comply with the national standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u11	As far as my group is concerned, it must not be ruled out that, when it comes to the position of citizens, a higher level of protection than the basic quality should be chosen. I am in favour of a basic quality that applies at all times and everywhere. In this context, municipalities can indeed make trade-offs and may opt for additional protection, but that consideration is up to the municipalities. It is precisely that framework for basic quality protection that I am missing, which we regard as crucial. How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u12	Thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u13	In replying to questions from our Chamber, the Minister says that the direction of activities now rests with the initiator. The initiator must therefore assess whether he/she intends to comply with general rules, or whether it is necessary to apply for authorisation etc. Before you know it, there's gonna be a bunch of buildings that were licensed, but the initiator thought differently. And we know that ex-post intervention is extremely complicated. That's the last thing a driver likes to do. How is the Minister going to prevent cases from being too far-reaching, that should be dealt with afterwards and that this should not happen again? The three levels of government Rijk, province, municipalities are given very broad powers, with a "unless." They must decide for themselves whether a power is effective or effective. An example is to increase the maximum speed on national roads to 130 km/h, even if this affects local air quality. In her view, municipalities that want to impose stricter health requirements have the task of checking: the minister is in charge of the speed limit. How should we place this in the division of jurisdiction between the Empire and the municipalities? This is hard for us to say. At the same time, the power of the Empire to intervene disappears when provinces or municipalities do not fulfil their tasks adequately. The existing clue disappears. With reference to the plans for building in the dunes, I ask the Minister whether this is a desirable matter. Citizens think it is very important that the Empire intervenes, if necessary, according to this example, In this case, local authorities and companies wanted to build more. The Minister wanted to cooperate, but she did not do so, given the great resistance. Now she can stop this. Can she do that later, when municipalities take their local administrative space? I'd like a response. We also have concerns about the relationship between the municipality and the province where nature conservation is concerned. Why does it not provide for a provincial right of consent for the granting of permits where they do indeed involve permits that could have an impact on nature? There can be a very difficult situation there. What we very much regret is that, from the Wabo, the important criterion of 'unsuitable cohesion', with which profits have been made, disappears. Frankly, we find that contrary to the objective of more comprehensive policy. We are afraid that this may have bad consequences. The beauty of that inseparable coherence is of course that you assess everything in conjunction. A permit is therefore assessed not only for the building, but also for the activities in it. I am thinking of making fireworks and the nasty experiences with them. There may be companies that say: we put that building in place, now we have to get that activity in. This creates a kind of salami tactic. The law does not provide clarity on the assessment and assessment of cumulative effects, for example in the case of securities occurring in neighbouring municipalities. How's the secretary gonna operate on that? I call the smell of intensive livestock farming. There are quite a few instruments that are intended to provide greater flexibility. The Environmental Planning Agency found in 2013 that the Environmental Law has more risks than benefits for nature and environmental protection, partly because the accumulation of flexibility possibilities combined with the limitations of the EIA procedure creates risks for nature and the environment. The law extends the instruments that make it possible to deviate from nature and environmental regulations. For example, the Crisis and Recovery Act allowed for derogations from nature and environmental standards by means of the experimental determination and designation of a development area. But this was temporary. In the new law there is no longer a limitation in time. My group certainly sees this as a relaxation of regulation and a reduction in the level of protection. I'd like a response. Is the Minister prepared to tighten up the flexibility instruments so that equivalent protection is guaranteed? As already stated by the PBL, the changes in the m.e.r. are also taken into account. There's a problem in this. The requirements for the EIA project will be reduced, there will be restrictions on research into alternatives and participation. The obligation to carry out an independent quality test shall be deleted, as shall the obligation to carry out an evaluation. The PBL states that this will make the EIA procedure for all decisions and projects very similar to the limited m.e.r. which now applies only to projects of the Crisis and Recovery Act. Thus, with its limited review, limited procedures and limited participation, the Crisis and Recovery Act becomes sneaking into normal environmental law in the Netherlands. We think this is wrong and undesirable. We'd like to hear how the Minister sees this. We have a number of questions about participation. The cabinet calls participation an important objective of the law, but we are frankly disappointed in that. We do not see enough of that. I mentioned the restriction of participation in the m.e.r. procedure, but strangely enough, there is no provision for effective participation and the quality of participation at municipal level, except in the case of complex projects. In fact, the law does not regulate participation in general matters and leaves this to the local authorities. As far as we are concerned, at least the obligation to make participation possible and the requirements for the quality of participation procedures should be regulated by law. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also supports strong investment in the framework conditions under which every citizen can participate: good information provision, good communication, inviting citizens to think along and ensuring that citizens who are often not participating today can and will participate. How does the Minister view this? How will it ensure effective participation? In addition, we have a major problem with limiting the time that citizens have to object, especially with regard to the environmental permit. Two weeks after publication the trees can be cut down or the building can be demolished. Now there is still six weeks to request a suspensive effect. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister actually makes it impossible for many people to object. We find this unacceptable. We would like a response from the Minister and a commitment that she will do something about this. I would like to endorse Mrs Meijer's words. I have a question about enforcement, which is becoming more difficult and complicated as far as our group is concerned. This is because there will have to be much more ex post control and because it is more difficult to work with target rules, which this law works with, rather than with specific medium rules. This therefore requires well-trained enforcers with new expertise to adapt the organisation of enforcement to the new situation and to invest in enforcement rather than the cuts, which are also an objective of this operation. We ask the Cabinet to give priority to strengthening enforcement and to provide sufficient financial resources for that purpose. We would like to have a reaction to this. I have a question about the relationship with the Mining Act. The cabinet says that it is not for a procedural or substantive link between the environmental permit for a mining work and the search and extraction permit. However, an amendment by Mr Van Tongeren/Vos has been adopted which states that applications for the Mining Act must be assessed in the light of natural, environmental and safety requirements. That link must therefore be fitted. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I have a few final remarks to make. In the end, of course, this operation must lead to a simpler system, but we do not see it happening. The "whore, but four AMvB's" cover many hundreds of pages, which can hardly be understood by anyone anymore and in which you are completely lost. Already the baker gets lost in the decision on activities, while he or she used to be able to get out of his way with the decision on bakery. That becomes much more complicated with this Environment Act. It is a clean ideal, but if only super specialists can get away with it, a large number of important goals, such as simplification and awareness, will disappear behind the horizon. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. A second concern is that the bill is a huge mess. You could say that's exactly what it was supposed to be, but it's a huge job. The law requires a lot of investment in people's expertise and in new systems and organisations. There's no money for that. I'm really worried about that: is it really gonna get better? Do we have a result that we say: yes, it was worth all that uncertainty, all that effort and in time all that chaos? And here's the thing: with a change of law and with new rules, you're not here. The real change comes only from a cultural change, towards a government that is open to its citizens, to the outside world, and towards cooperation and seeking solutions together. That takes a lot of effort and time. How does the Minister see this and how is she going to invest in that process? The Nature Protection Act has recently been adopted. I ask the Minister to ensure that this law will pass one-on-one into the Environment Act and that matters regulated at law level in the Nature Protection Act will not end up at AMvB level in the context of the Environment Act. I would like a clear answer to that. I come to the conclusion of my contribution. My group is extremely critical of this bill. We believe that important standards and review frameworks that fall within the scope of the law will be regulated in the underlying rules and that this will not do justice to the role of Parliament as co-legislator. Moreover, this weakens the legal clarity and awareness. In addition, we believe that the law creates risks for the protection of nature, the environment, legal protection and participation due to the lack of clear frameworks and the lack of guarantee of crucial protection. I have explained our objections and asked many questions to the Minister. We await her answer with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. In view of the debate, I say nothing new when I say that the Netherlands, our country, is characterised by high population density, highly developed industrial activity, mobility and infrastructure. At the same time, our cities are in an environment where there is intensive farming and where nature is fortunately never far away. These spatial conditions have ensured that the Netherlands has a strong tradition in spatial planning and the adjacent environment, water and nature policy. Growth in welfare development has been possible, while the quality of the environment has improved in recent years. The pressure from environmental policy has generated numerous innovations, technological innovation, multifunctional concepts and spatial functional separation where necessary. That didn't go without a fight. Over the past 30 years, there have also been numerous clashes between spatial promoters and rules to protect the environment and between administrators and citizens in participation, participation and legal procedures. On the occasion of this debate on the Environment Act, we would like to express our thanks to initiators and stakeholders for this next significant step in the modernisation and integration of legislation on our physical environment. Due to the context outlined, the Netherlands has a rich tradition of legislation in the areas of spatial planning, environment, water, traffic and nature. We are now on the verge of integrating 26 laws, dozens of AMvBs and ministerial arrangements into a coherent framework that should provide more overview, insight and transparency for citizens, businesses and governments. In addition, there are strong expectations by us about increasing administrative consideration at the decentralised level, flexibilisation and customization, without compromising the quality of the living environment and continuing to focus on systematic improvement. Today we are discussing the process architecture of the legislative framework. The material filling needs to be further developed through the cluster-AMvBs and the introduction law, which will still be discussed in principle. The government has chosen, somewhat contrary to the administrative tradition, not to include standards in the law itself. This has meant that, through the criticism of the Council of State and the House of Representatives, a heavy procedure is now being used for all parts of this framework law. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats notes that in a positive sense the idea of bundling has led to a sharp increase in overview and coherence. The question, however, is what is the profit, the saving of time, which is actually being made if Parliament is right to make its substantive involvement in the setting of standards heavy; this question has been raised earlier in this debate. Could this situation have been avoided by striving from the outset to establish the standards in the law, so that Parliament as a co-legislator would be fully involved? I'd like to get a reflection from the Minister on this. In response to the questions of the PvdA Group in the written preparation, the government notes that this process can also be repeated at a decentralised level, in our view, in order to provide sufficient legitimacy for the decisions of the daily administration of provinces, municipalities and water authorities when adopting project decisions, plans, programmes, etc. Does the government agree with the PvdA Group that organic legislation is the Municipal Act, the Province Act, etc. Is the Environmental Law on the internal regulation of democratic decision-making within the governing bodies supersede? At the same time, the necessary ICT provision requires a strong financial, technical and operational commitment from all public authorities and stakeholders, but of course the government, as system responsible, bears responsibility for this, which can only be definitively assessed by the introduction law in two years' time. This will also constitute a final "go/no go" moment for the entry into force of the law. Does the Minister agree with this conclusion? What requirements does the Minister make for local authorities to organise their input to the ICT portal? What risk of impairment does this pose before the entry into force of the law? Can it inform the Chamber of when it intends to conclude the basic agreement with the umbrella organisations? The Environmental Act has new concepts for almost everything by the far-reaching integration of the existing legislation and is based on a new philosophy of steering. Trust, the "decentral, unless" principle and the centralisation of the municipality are key concepts. The fourth major change in the system which this cabinet aspires to is thus launched. This requires careful implementation and a learning process. In our opinion, the text of the Parts Act has not yet been sufficiently crystallised. I shall come back to that in a moment with a few examples. Existing knowledge and experience of the current legislation is becoming largely unusable. The new concepts and definitions will have to be re-examined in practice and in case law. For the time being, the new municipal environmental plan is only the sum of old land use plans, management regulations and global environmental visions. This will be a quest, given the complexity of reality, and it will be accompanied by new uncertainties. Fortunately, pilots have already gained experience with new instruments. Can the government promise that it will support this implementation process with sufficient resources? We are particularly concerned about the hundreds of smaller municipalities, where this route will again rely heavily on capacity and energy. Although environmental services may play a useful role at regional level, this calls for greater links with the local councils concerned. This is also a question of governance, which cannot be tackled in our view by umbrella organisations. But by whom, then? There may be a need for a transition authority as in the social domain. What is the Minister's view on this? During the written examination of the legislative proposal, my group drew attention to the fact that the move from permits to general rules, from public authorities requires much more preventive information, communication, repressive supervision and enforcement efforts. The Government also acknowledged this in its reply. Will this part of the implementation costs of the new legislation also be addressed in the governance agreement to be concluded with the umbrella bodies? And how is further research being carried out on this reduction in the burden for individual citizens and businesses, which is for collective account? This law seeks to strike a new balance between development and protection and between administrative discretion and improvement of our environment. At the same time, the law is seemingly policy neutral. Again, the material standards are still discussed in the examination of the AMvBs. Then the political assessment must also be given as to whether this balance of standards is sufficient to improve our environment. We note that by means of elements such as the programming approach, the systematic monitoring and the strengthening of attention to health, the Environment Act contains, in principle, a powerful toolbox to guide and, if necessary, enforce major societal issues such as climate change, the promotion of the circular economy and the sustainable energy transition. We assume that the Minister agrees with us on this. However, the government remains very reluctant in its answer to questions from First Chamber members about the way in which it will follow up on the implementation of the Urgenda pronunciation and the Paris agreements of December when drawing up the National Environment Vision, an integral part of this Environment Act. When will the government decide on the passage of Paris? And in what way will this work in the National Environment Vision and in the Rules of Instruction? I would like to return to the new concept framework. We call for attention to be paid to the balance between flexibility and protection as a result of the government's proposal to abandon the doctrine of so-called 'insane coherence', which has been applied for several years by the Wabo when assessing planning approval and licensing. Governments have fought for many years at the Council of State to limit illegal situations, silently tolerated, from the point of view of enforcement, in order to achieve comprehensive consideration and to limit the number of "empty" permits or to prevent subsequent forced legalisation of unwanted spatial developments. I can give examples of this from my own administrative practice. In our view, the government is once again opening up a Pandora's box with the release of the inseparable cohesion that can create a new culture of claims. We ask for security and legal protection for stakeholders and entrepreneurs. Can the Minister still offer a solution that guarantees the integrity to which the new law is so proud? The concept of "establishment" is abandoned and replaced by "activity." The systems associated with this change have not yet been sufficiently thought out for heavy industrial complexes and inner urban industrial areas. The approach to cumulation of environmental impacts, the inevitable fragmentation of the competent authority for authorisation and supervision when applying the concept of "activity" is worrying. Can the Minister undertake to make an interim assessment of the added value of the concept of "activity" in relation to "establishment" and the way in which this problem is resolved in the maintenance of the concept of activity? The "decentral, unless" principle is applied in the philosophy of regulation of the law to the extent that local authorities are also called upon to take action in the event of environmental values being exceeded. I refer to Rule 3.10. This is also the case if the local authorities themselves have no or limited influence when it comes to sources or causes outside the territory or scope of the competent authority. For example, see the problem of the discharge of fertilizers in South Limburg on the Meuse and the consequences for the drinking water company in Rotterdam, which has to stop the intake of water for drinking water preparation. If we understand this correctly, then municipalities and provinces will have to properly motivate their administrative considerations in the existing policy area and set them down in environmental visions in order not to be legally vulnerable. Linking to the national and provincial environmental visions, especially in the case of sub-local living and environmental issues, would seem to quickly and necessarily lead to inter-administrative coordination and programmatic cooperation in order to address the relevant sources effectively. Programmed approach and inter-administrative cooperation can also prevent the State too soon from using the compelling role of the present and future figure of the State Coordination Scheme, but open to alternative packages of measures which, provided they have the same cost-effectiveness and efficiency, should be able to obtain an equivalent assessment and legal opportunity as a regional package of decisions in this case. Alignment and strengthening the synergy between the levels of government is thus the normal route. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Current developments in environmental law show that it is increasingly assumed that the outcome will be good if the procedure is properly implemented. The open set of standards that gives the administration more freedom of policy is accompanied by a limited anchoring of principles in the legislation that can guide policy freedom. In the PvdA's view, the European legal principles such as the polluter pays, the source approach and the standstill principle should be incorporated into the environmental plan and the regulation on the basis of the measured quality of life. The Council of State has also recommended this. In this way there is sufficient commitment, in accordance with the way in which the government proposes it in the area of health. Does the government share our vision on this? And is this going to be part of the state's instructions, too? There is also the basically welcome attention to the involvement of citizens, but above all in the preliminary stages of planning and decision-making. The reports of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and other mentioned reports strongly appeal to the government to create room for this. Previously, this became the basis of the Tracé Act in the so-called "Elverdingsapproach." At the same time, the legal protection of citizens and businesses is restricted by fewer and fewer apple-labeled decisions and decisions on the "negative list" of the Awb and so on, through the passing of administrative agreements and the instrument of general rules. We're moving towards a new balance between government and citizen. The objective of the law is more co-production and more equivalence. Its design in the participation and participation procedures, which can often have effects and effects on important decisions that can determine the living environment for many years, is a major challenge. How do you create clarity for stakeholders if the environmental plan remains global? Can alternatives still be considered, or is licensing an automatic distraction? There is much to be said here for a broad application of the environmental decision in accordance with Article 5.2.2, as advocated by the UNG, among others. What is the Minister's view on this? In addition, participation and participation involve the position of the competent authority when both the initiator of a project decision and the person responsible for the quality of the environmental information is involved. We want to insist on the objectification by independent third parties of this environmental information, even where the procedure is not yet at the stage of a full m.e.r. Whether it's not gonna come from the negative list at all. We also want to support citizens in providing easy access to the relevant facts and information. Such a light test may prevent a court from proceeding on the disputed facts and may bring consensus where opinions lead to conflict. Does the Minister share our concerns about the energetic citizen who has to compete with the power and strength of the government in this respect? Would the Minister take the initiative to create a facility that could be independent, flexible and easy to deploy, to give citizens and groups the right to support participation and participation processes through an objective test on information presented by the government as the initiator of a project itself? We would like to hear a reply from the Minister to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. When we started this debate and Mr Van Dijk asked to speak, I was suddenly reminded of my Sunday school period. I learned the song "A wise man built his house on the rock." Actually, it's a bit about that today and also about the fact that most people are wise people who want to build houses on rocks. Perhaps this should give us a little more confidence in the citizen. Well, I guess we won't be talking about that other person for a while. It's also about a densely populated country. That's true. We are an extremely densely populated country. Yet I always notice, when I drive on the train to The Hague, that I drive through a green area almost all the time. This is due to the fact that we have invented a very well-organised spatial planning system in this country. In our neighbouring countries we can see how things can be different. I know the Belgians are impersonating us by now. You used to see business sites, homes and buildings to work all mixed up. In the meantime, that's changing a little bit. In most countries in Europe it is less regulated than in ours, I think. We may also be a little over-regulated, so I think that thinking about what we are doing is very good. I'm glad we're dealing with the new Environment Act today. It's a bill with a long lead. At the end of the day, the Minister and her officials, whom I would of course also like to thank, have set up the preliminary route in such a way that the intention of this law is in the near future. That's very interesting. It is very special that almost all parties that have or have anything to do with this law have talked about it in order to come up with a good Environment Act. Then we are talking about provinces, all kinds of representatives of interests, from the environmental movement to the whole other side of the business, companies and representatives of business. We hope, of course, that when an environmental plan has to be drawn up at municipal level or when someone applies for a permit, the initiators of such an environmental plan or the private initiator will think about how to achieve broad acceptance. The fact that the Minister did this well is demonstrated by the fact that this bill in the House of Representatives, after a very long and careful examination, was given a very strong support. Perhaps the Minister could go back to the process she chose. I would actually like to give her the tip to share this with her colleagues. My view is that it is not very often that a legislative proposal is made in such a way with those involved or with other governments. It would be very good if the whole government just took an example of this. It is quite exceptional, moreover, that this revolutionary bill has hardly been given any attention in the press. I'd say so, because it's revolutionary. There are so many sectoral laws and rules integrated and so many procedures are interwoven, while maintaining legal certainty. I believe that legal certainty, if we do not change the standards, will remain exactly the same. In fact, in the eyes of the VVD Group, legal certainty is in the new situation, if everything is properly implemented I shall come back to that in a moment. In the old situation, as a citizen who wanted something through a lot of procedures, you could get a permit once, if you were lucky. A citizen who didn't want something often had to look in the mountain of regulation and often try again and again when he could already know after the first ruling that something could still go on or couldn't go on. That wasn't good for either of them. In fact, I can only think of one reason why publicity has passed the Environment Act and that is that it is a very complicated subject. Of course, there is little publicity in the support area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u16	I have a question for Mrs Jorritsma. She says that legal certainty is at least the same and well protected. In her opinion, it gets even better, because it gets simpler and clearer. I see that differently, because we still have to wait and see what will come back from a number of frameworks and standards, which are now just in laws. The question is whether all this will become clearer and clearer. In addition, I have a second question. They're gonna be incredible AMvBs. So how can Mrs Jorritsma say that this becomes clearer for citizens and businesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u17	I shall come back to that in detail in a moment. In my opinion, something, if placed in an AMvB, is as legal as if it were included in the basic text. So that doesn't change. As far as I'm concerned, I wouldn't mind getting rid of some rules. But if we want to make this bill and its implementation a success, it would be a good thing for us all not to change all kinds of standards. Then you have to choose different procedures for that. I assume that Mrs Vos may want stricter standards in a number of areas. She knows my group. We sometimes want simpler standards or less standards. But I would like to be disciplined to choose, when implementing this bill, to transfer it one by one into the new law. Then we'll talk again about whether it might not be a bit much, because of course it becomes very visible what we have produced with each other over the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u18	Let me ask you one more question: legal certainty is best achieved by putting the most important frameworks, including the frameworks that will determine, for example, the assessment of permits, and standards into law. Then everyone knows: at least that is what we all have to live up to. Why, in the opinion of the VVD Group, is it not a good thing to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u19	I believe that this debate has already been held very extensively in the House of Representatives. We share the view of the group in the House of Representatives. There was also a majority in favour of this. We have no other opinion on this. Sometimes I understand that, if you want to do it all very nicely, maybe it could have been different. I still have to see if it would have been possible to make one law. We'd probably have come up with more laws after all. I think the charm of this proposal is that a framework law has been chosen. We'll have an AMvB that sets all standards as they are today. After that, of course, you can change what you want. It is up to the legislator to determine that. In my view, it does not give any less legal certainty, whether we add it via an AMvB or incorporate it into the basic law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u20	Finally, Mrs Vos, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u21	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Jorritsma says that it will all end up in an AMvB and the standards will remain exactly the same and nothing will change. I believe that things are going to change, because there will be more flexibility. There will be more room for consideration at the local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u22	Yeah, that's right. They're not all in the law now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u23	That is true, but at least there are now firmer frameworks in the law, how they should be judged and so on. That's just my point. It is just a matter of waiting to see if what you are so optimistic about now becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u24	I think we are now having a debate that we will only be able to have later. Because you can't do that until those AMvBs get here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u25	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u26	Sometimes you're surprised that something gets the publicity while it's just a futility and sometimes you're surprised when one of the most revolutionary subjects barely gets the publicity. By the latter, I mean a very big change in environmental law, even more so, the biggest change since we started with environmental law. That is a pity, given what I have seen before. In ministries, provincial halls, town halls and departments there is a great deal of preparation for the new system. By the way, many municipal councils have already completed their first course in Environmental Law. But if you asked a street question about it, I don't think nearly anyone knows what it's about. So there's still a lot of work to be done there. This will, of course, be easier if it can be done on the basis of local, concrete examples. The essay of the SCP, "Don't count outside the citizen!', which was written at the request of the Minister, has become an interesting essay. The title of the press release was: increasing the role of citizens in the new environment was not self-evident. That title, of course, immediately caused a lot of misunderstandings. It was taken as a criticism of the Environment Act in the press. Some people have already commented: see, they are trying to shut the citizen out or shut the mouth. That's very special, especially if you read the report correctly and even more if you take the core of the law. The SCP notes quite simply that the Environment Act can greatly improve the position of citizens in environmental law, provided that a number of conditions are met. This means that in particular two things are important: is there a clear process that is well communicated and is there sufficient citizen involvement in the policy-making phase? The VVD Group believes that the Environment Act, as it now stands, offers many opportunities to do better indeed than we have done so far as governments. I deliberately start with the subject of citizen involvement, because it has always been a vulnerable part of spatial policy and I fear that it will always remain so. It is now clear that, in particular, the process of achieving policy-making requires an investment in a very good and clear process for the environment. I've been mayor of the city of Almere for 12 years. When I got there in 2003, the designers, the aldermen and the city council were used to a process of establishing zoning plans, where zoning plans went through the city council as a hammer piece. After all, there were no people living in those neighbourhoods, so that was extremely simple. During the 12 years I've been there, there's been a total change. Especially in a new area people are much more sensitive to any change of function, especially when it comes to people coming from the metropolitan, very petrified area. They come in a green walhalla with lots of space. It is precisely in a developing city that it is necessary to improve design errors and make timely adjustments to urban design, so that neighbourhoods become more sustainable, especially in social terms. It's colliding, and we knew it. By the way, I have to say that some of the bad plans in the eyes of local residents have resulted in a tremendous amount of social cohesion. But it is better and probably cheaper to use other methods. The process of achieving civic participation is what I call it, however, started entirely from the spatial concept. So citizens are almost always consulted too late. In the meantime, it is also clear that citizen participation in environmental plans, which are currently called zoning plans, can only be successful if one starts at the stage of the problem analysis. What kind of problem should we solve? Do we share the view that there is a problem? For example, do we share the view that it would be nice if the elderly could continue to live in our neighbourhood? Then perhaps there is something to say for an apartment building for which a few trees have to die. The dilemma of civic participation is and will always remain that it does not mean that every citizen supports the choice made. The general interest is sometimes contradictory to individual interest and there are also limits to civic participation. It is good that the SCP also draws attention to this and makes the right suggestion to think about all kinds of new forms, such as the G1000 and the civil panels. In the pilot municipalities, but actually in all municipalities where there are bigger developments, you can see good examples of this. I would like to point out that it is of the utmost importance that the chosen form is properly discussed with and determined by the parliament, i.e. the city council. The citizen who is not right will always refer back to failing participation. Besides, it really doesn't fit to record something here about the shape in which you do it. One district is already different from the other, let alone one can be completely different from the other. According to the VVD Group, the new Environment Act offers many opportunities to take that new path, because both private promoters and the government need to think about the consequences of their initiatives and cannot do so or can no longer do so in splendid isolation. What makes the Environment Act unique, of course, is that it has been chosen for several paradigmashifts, as most speakers have said for me. I have already mentioned the first, namely a shift from the processes to the front. The second is that we no longer limit the scope for developments by means of all kinds of rules, but set standards within which developments are and remain possible. The protection of values will soon be within the limits of those values. Now, of course, this sounds wonderful, but frankly, I am glad that today we are not setting the AMvBs in which these standards are included. I fear that, as initiators, they will soon zoom in in a concrete place, they will be terrified by the amount that rests on it. It seems to me that it is a huge tour of giving information via the website in such a way that the citizens who are not trained in environmental law understand something about it. But this aside, I will come back to it later. What I also think is a good principle is that we are trying to restore some confidence between the levels of government in this country. That's not easy. One of the four improvements of the Environment Act is to increase the administrative balancing area, by enabling an active and flexible approach to achieve goals for the physical environment. Also for this objective, the extent to which it will be achieved depends on the space given in the AMvBs to make choices at local level and to provide tailor-made solutions tailored to the local situation. The question is, of course, whether in due course, those AMvBs can provide sufficient bandwidth in the national standards for, for example, noise, soil and the environment. We will have to test the AMvBs on that. For this point, see also the Council's opinion on the environment and infrastructure. I'm very curious how the Minister intends to deal with that. In the Lower House is the Veldman c.s. amendment. The Court held that, even if there is no experiment, certain standards which are laid down in rules of instruction may be permanently derogated from. I saw that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance asked further questions about this in the second round. The VVD Group attaches great importance to this addition, because it can make developments possible in densely built areas. By the way, this is not a freedom-happiness amendment. For example, the Hemreid in Zaanstad. If there is a great interest in living there, it should not mean that the adjacent factory is the Verkade cookie factory within a certain period of time, for example a number of years, would have to adjust its sound and smell production, while the residents will be happy to live there. By the way, we still have the problem of grandparents and grandparents living at the farm, on which there has been an enormous amount of work to be done. But such a thing should really be possible, without having any effect on the operation of the farm that is located there. In the VVD's view, further rural flexibility is very important, given the fact that scaling will continue there, even without everything becoming mega, given the family conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u27	I have a question about that cookie factory at Hemrein in Zaanstad. It is not for nothing that certain standards have been set. They also have to do with people's health. You say that it should simply be possible to deviate permanently from certain rules. But it can't be that this is going to damage health, can it? You often see that this leads to very complicated situations in the long term, because it affects citizens. So, in the future, you're gonna have some trouble. It sounds a little too easy for me to say 'it must be possible to deviate permanently from regulation'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u28	It therefore depends on what regulation it is and to what extent it deviates from it. To be honest, I think that the local authorities can make a very good decision on this. I've lived next to the milk sugar factory for years. At that time smell wasn't an existing problem at all. I couldn't ride past it so well when I was pregnant, but it's something you get used to in an environment. I honestly think most people in Zaanstad have smelled chocolate and cookies all their lives. Then it is weird that we are going to stop developments in this area, where we have thought together that we are setting standards for this too. It also applies to some types of sound. That factory is undoubtedly making noise and will perhaps be above the norm in a certain way, because it is still an industrial site at the moment. But I could very well imagine you saying: we make good agreements about it. Of course, it should not affect health in a negative way, but we may have to be less strict there than in the residential area where I live and where there is no movement within 10 kilometres. That's the kind of difference I'd like to allow. Let us give the local authorities a little room for that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u29	As long as it stays within certain frameworks. There just has to be a basic quality of the environment. Don't you think all the local authorities should stick to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u30	Do you really think that the basic quality in Amsterdam should be the same as that in Wommels, to mention a cross street in my immediate vicinity? I think it's different there, and I think people experience it differently. In the city centre of Amsterdam you will always experience a lot of sound, "whatever you do." Whether you ban or not, you always have public transport. That basic quality is not an unambiguous quality. It's different in different places. Let us give local authorities the responsibility for this. Then I come to a few important topics that are conditional to successfully implement the Environment Act. I'd like to start with the importance of good data. The CDA spokesperson discussed this in detail. I shall confine myself to a few remarks. The availability of appropriate data, in all areas covered by the law, is very important both for the preparation of environmental plans and for the preparation of project plans. In the further report, the Minister replied to a question from the D66 group that she had the plan to give the information house a place in the introduction law: the Lane of the Environment. I am very curious about the development of the ICT systems that should support the Environment Act. Is that work done in time, so that not too many things have to be manually searched together, as we saw at the start of the new Wro? It seems to me that it is virtually impossible for a citizen to get any clarity about it. For initiators, that must also be an unstoppable job. In other words, can we trust that the provision of data at the time of the adoption of the Environment Act is of such a level that the law can be properly implemented? Perhaps at some point there will be "go/no go" moments, if the ICT system does not work properly, even if the legislative process is completed. In fact, a well-functioning system with available data is conditional on a successful implementation of the law. Then I come to the division of powers between governments. A great deal has been said about this too. According to the administrative philosophy of the legislative proposal, the principle of subsidiarity is one of the most important pillars. This makes it important for the division of powers between the Empire and the provinces on the one hand and the municipalities on the other. The Empire and the provinces will soon be obliged to establish an environmental vision. That's what's needed. Municipalities cannot, without a vision of the other authorities, take account of upper-local policies. In most cases, the municipality will still be the competent authority to grant the permits. Moreover, the municipality must also prepare, establish and implement the environmental plan. Much has already been said and written about the administrative agreement between governments. It has been expressly agreed that both the Empire and the provinces will be reluctant to deal with their powers. In the opinion of the VVD Group, this means that later all kinds of political hobbies cannot be included in the visions. As a result, municipalities can hardly facilitate the wishes of their own residents and businesses. I'm deliberately saying it in ordinary people's language, because that's what it's all about in the end. The Minister explained in her reply to our questions that there must indeed be a significant upper class interest. This can only be achieved after consultation with the other authorities. Moreover, it must be established in the Chamber when it comes to national government, or in Provincial States when it comes to provincial policy. Of course, "the proof of the pudding in the eating" applies. When I was chairman of the Association of Dutch Municipalities, I regularly noticed that it is very difficult for some provincial directors to rely on municipal administrators. By the way, I also notice that in the case of MPs who do not always trust their fellow party members at local level. I will not say anything else about coastal policy, but when the Minister said something about it, it seemed very similar. On pages 22 and 23 of the reply, the Minister states that the forceful effect of Article 2.3 is contained in the mandatory efficiency and effectiveness test. This test, which the Wro does not know at present, leads, in the opinion of the government, to an additional steering force on a cautious use of standard-setting powers of the province and the Empire. Under the Environmental Law, the judge will have to assess whether adequate justice has been given to those aspects of efficiency and effectiveness. Of course, you're all hoping it's never gonna come to this. The notes follow the requirement of necessity, as set out in the Wro and should be limited to the aspects of the standard setting necessary for the defence of the provincial or national interest in question. Mr Van Dijk spoke about it. However, Professor Korsse states that such an objective mid-term review cannot be clearly recognised in the case law of the Administrative Court Division. And, according to him, this is due to the fact that the question of what is needed to represent a particular interest also requires a political and administrative assessment. Article 2.3 of the Environment Act now states that the Empire and provinces must justify why it is effective and effective to exercise the jurisdiction in question. So that is not a tightening-up, but a clarification. The big question is whether the administrative judge will now assess the aspects of efficiency and effectiveness, as the response on page 132 presupposes. After all, the administrative judge can and should only carry out a judicial and, therefore, marginal review. The question then is what the judge will review. Will the Minister state again why she thinks this is going to work now? Another issue in this area is whether the principle of subsidiarity applies to the establishment of national and provincial visions and programmes. The objectives set out therein shall be considered by the court to be relevant in the assessment of the extent to which a national or provincial interest exists. The reply states that for the powers of the provinces and the Empire which are not to be regarded as standards, such as the power to establish an environmental view or the power to adopt a programme, the principle of subsidiarity has not been declared applicable in the legislative proposal. This is because it covers only the description of the objectives of the administrative body concerned and the description of how that administrative body intends to achieve those objectives. However, objectives set out in policy documents are often considered important in the case law of the Administrative Court in assessing whether there was a provincial interest, as the Council of State also points out in its opinion on page 70? In that context, it is interesting that there was a ruling on October 20, 2010, and I consciously cite a rather strange example of the maximum height of advertising masts to be set up in Groningen with reference to the Provincial Environment Plan. It indicated that advertising masts could desecrate the landscape, so that they could not exceed six meters. This means that a national or provincial view of the environment is a clear beginning of a justification for the application of national and provincial powers. Does this change or not? Will the Minister give us her vision again? Does this, in itself, not mean that the principle of subsidiarity should actually be applied to environmental visions and programmes? Previous speakers also spoke about the letter of 28 January, in which the Council members' initiative Local Autonomy to the First Chamber expressed concerns about the effects of the Environment Act on local autonomy. Frankly, I think that a large part of the concerns of those council members are covered by principles laid down in Article 2.3 of the Environment Act such as "decentrally what can be done and centrally, only if it has to" and "the least burdensome intervention." The latter principle is set out in Article 2.2 (3). These concerns are also addressed by the "faster and better" approach to project decisions, as set out in Article 5.47. My group shares this view. However, there is an element in the argument of the council members, of whom we also wonder how this is later regulated by the Environment Act. Under Article 1.4 of the Crisis and Recovery Act, the right of appeal of local authorities is limited to decisions of the government which are not aimed at the local authorities concerned, but belong to projects designated by the Crisis and Recovery Act. Such projects were mostly discussed first in local politics. It is intended that the Crisis and Recovery Act will, of course, be incorporated into the Environment Act. Does the limitation of the right of appeal of local authorities return to this? If so, how? Now we're only talking about the Environment Act today. It is, of course, only a start to the whole of the legislation, which is needed to review the whole of environmental law. Everyone has said something about that. Soon we will have the supplementary legislation with the incorporation of all kinds of sectoral laws, the introduction legislation, which is actually the implementing law, and the AMvBs, which incorporate all standards. They'll all be supplementing the Environment Act in no time. They may also all have to go through the Second and Upper Chambers. I hope, to be honest, that I am now saying what I said later on that we are able to bring about discipline in order not to want to change everything in that legislation. Then the end is lost. Perhaps after that we will say 'what a lot we have arranged', and we will have to mow sometime, but I think that we should do so afterwards for the success of this process. Then I come to the question of the fees. From my history, members will understand that I have no problem with the differences between the fees charged by municipalities, if only because the cost levels differ in different types of municipalities. I therefore believe that national standards are really impossible. Yet these differences are an eternal source of annoyance. In the VVD's view, therefore, it is important to ensure greater transparency in the way these tariffs are created. We are therefore very pleased that the Minister of BZK is going to include this in the decision on the budget and accountability of provinces and municipalities, in such a way that municipalities and provinces should include a transparent numerical and substantive explanation of the creation and cost coverage of the fees. This makes it clear to citizens how tariffs have been set and what elements are involved. It is also good that these rules will start next year, a year before the entry into force of the Environment Act. Then we'll get rid of the dirt. Thank you to this Minister and, of course, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Another problem is the financing of the change. This point has also been mentioned by previous speakers. The Minister doesn't say much about this point yet. An objective of the Environmental Act is that working with general rules should be the starting point and that permits become the exceptions. It is expected that this will enable much more activities to be carried out under the Environmental Act than at present simply permit-free. However, this does not always mean that there is much less work for municipalities. Indeed, part of the work really shifts to the front, namely policy and response to customer questions about, for example, licensing-free activities, but a very large part shifts to the back, because municipalities still have a supervisory and enforcement task to which they are rightly not allowed to charge fees. This work must therefore soon be financed from the general budget. I assume, and I hope that the Minister will be able to agree to this, that we are simply going to have the Article 2 consultation with which this is done. Finally for now, because we will often speak before the Environment Act is complete, the following. When all the supplemental laws, the introduction law and the AMvBs have been passed and adopted, the VVD Group assumes that the policy areas which are then integrated into the Environment Act, including nature policy, will fall under the responsibility of one ruler. In the current situation, this would mean that everything would have to go to infrastructure and the environment, but I am well aware that the next elections will be over by then. It is therefore important that this point is included in the formation files. What does the Minister think about this? In conclusion, the VVD Group considers this a special draft law. If I try to look ahead and dream a little bit, it will be a lot less complicated for citizens and businesses who want something, but also for those who are against something. This creates opportunities to clean up a very large amount of bureaucracy without reducing legal certainty. In fact, they get bigger as simplicity increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u31	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. In the schedule it was foreseen that we would be finished with the first term of the Chamber around 16.45 hours. Then it would be suspended until 6.30 p.m., including dinner break. I propose that we suspend until 6 p.m., including dinner break, unless there are really very serious objections on the part of the Chamber and/or the Minister. It's a bit silly to let the 45 minutes we're faster go. I see there's no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u32	Mr. Chairman. I don't know if you need to know in what order I'm going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u33	Maybe the members need it. It might be useful to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u34	I will first give a brief introduction on how and why and on how to achieve it. Then I'll go into the paradigm change. That is where the issues of participation and cultural change lie. I shall now turn to legal protection and what is connected with it. Then the relationship between the bill and the AMvBs. Next, I will deal with digitisation and the relationship between the governing bodies. Then there are some points that have been asked less questions about: the National Environment Vision, the Environmental Plan, the Quality plus the Environmental Value, the Weighting Space, the Enforcement, the Implementation and other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u35	Do you think it's gonna work out to be ready about 10:30, including the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u36	That depends on whether you want an answer to everything or not, Mr President, but I will do my best to respond as compactly as possible. I am glad to be able to discuss the Environment Act with the First Chamber, because with this bill we are on the verge of a large-scale and much-needed modernisation of environmental law. This has been said for a while, I believe by Mr Flierman, who quoted from the first laws there were. The first law from the physical domain was the Mining Act of 1815. Over 200 years, numerous sectoral laws and decisions have been introduced. Every subject had its own law. These sectoral laws and decisions were made entirely logically at the time, with their own purpose and their own approach. That went well for a long time, but in the end it has become far too complex for this time. The legislation is not well adapted to address the complex societal challenges we face. Think, for example, of tackling climate change, energy transition, changing the shopping landscape, demographic contraction and economic growth; topics mentioned here by the members. In order to meet these challenges, society needs a government that can respond quickly and flexibly to the initiatives of citizens and businesses in the living environment, with civic participation, with good legal protection and with regard to the quality of our living environment, and without conflicting rules and unnecessarily complex procedures. The Environment Act makes a new, fresh start that is firmly based on European practice. Sixteen laws are fully incorporated into the Environment Act and ten laws are partly incorporated into it. The number of AMvBs is reduced from 60 sectoral decisions to 4 decisions that are clearly targeted at initiators, citizens and competent authority. The Environment Act regulates two essential things: space for a further, good development of the Netherlands and guarantees a safe and healthy living environment. It is a law that unites many worlds: spatial planning, water, construction, infrastructure, nature, heritage and the environment. This is a first, because for the first time in our country's history we now have an integral law for the whole environment. The Environment Act is also the first Dutch law that places sustainable development of the environment at the centre. I think that too is a first in Dutch law. In doing so, it has also become a law of everyone, for decision-making on spatial projects from large to small, from a rooftop to the Second Maasvlakte. Why are we doing this; what are the aims of this system review? The Environment Act has as its motto "space for development and guarantees of quality." I want to improve it in four ways. Firstly, it must be easier for people to see which rule applies. That's complicated now. The system review brings together the rules at all levels in a transparent way, so that everyone knows what they need to comply with. Think, for example, of the environmental plan. In it we combine a lot of municipal rules on the physical environment that are still contained in dozens of regulations, such as the hairdressing regulation or the exit regulation; you do not know what we all have regulations for. You must be able to see the woods very much through the trees if you want to know what to do. Secondly, the law should ensure that, in new developments in the living environment, all relevant interests are considered and weighed in coherence and in the beginning. That means no more ticking-off lists at the end of a process, as we have done in the past with the more sectoral approach. We ensure that weak interests such as the environment and health are taken into account at the start of the process. Mrs Teunissen asked why I am confident that this bill will lead to a healthy living environment. This is one of the reasons; we are going to weigh those interests in front. This gives a better end result for the quality of the environment and for the people who live in it. It also offers the opportunity to come up with new, smart combinations. The fact that there is such a need for an integrated, area-oriented approach is also demonstrated by the fact that some 30 municipalities are already experimenting with an integrated environmental plan, in anticipation of the Environment Act. The law is not even there yet and the municipalities are already working on it! Their enthusiasm underlines this improvement. A third important reason for me is that I want to create more administrative weighing space, so that local authorities can also make choices that fit their specific situation, because the Veluwe asks for different rules than the centre of Amsterdam. Of course, all this must be done within clear rules of the game, but there are opportunities to make a personal assessment at local level. Fourthly, the Environment Act aims to improve and accelerate decision-making on projects. The Environment Act harmonises procedures, provides unambiguous legal protection and allows for participation at the start of such a project. This can make it faster and easier for those who want to do something in their physical space. Moreover, through austerity, re-use and phase-out of research, research costs are reduced. You can also achieve that advantage with this law. Among other things, Mrs Jorritsma asked me how this law came about. This is a system change that you can only make if you also firmly anchor the law in practice. This means that we have achieved a great deal of involvement in advance by municipalities, provinces, water boards, environmental organisations, industry, scientists, the Council of State and many others. We have gone through an extensive process at the front to ensure that their experiences with the current legislation, positive and negative, have helped shape this bill. As far as I am concerned, it is not a paper law either, but a real law of practice, based on the reality of every day and rooted in Dutch dynamics. I would have liked to have done it here in advance, but I would still like to thank everyone who contributed to this law. It was a huge job, both for my own people and for everyone else who was involved. Because so well thought has been given to the front and because interests have been taken into account, it has become a better bill. This is also the method that we want to promote in the Environment Act for the whole environment, for which the Environment Act also offers instruments. Today is an important milestone in this process. As a chambre de réflexion, you will now and in the future contribute to the quality and stability of the new system. Let me now turn to the paradigm change that has to do with this. Then it is about participation and its role in this law, but also about cultural change, which is a very closely linked issue. As Members all know, a legislative proposal alone is not enough. It is only when you come to real improvement in practice that you are really successful. A necessary first step is therefore the change in the system, but in the end it is also a change in the way in which the government operates. It's from a "no, unless" to a "yes, if" from hiding behind rules to the guts to make decisions. Ultimately, it is about a real improvement in participation. The user must be placed at the centre. This also requires an integrated approach, because an initiative that is being taken often affects a great many interests. If you weigh those interests well in front, you can come up with a much better proposal. The Environmental Act offers instruments for this purpose........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This will enable real emancipation of subjects such as nature, the environment and water to take place. However, this requires a different way of working and thinking. It takes a different mindset. Several members of the Chamber have rightly called for explicit attention both to the participation process and to cultural change. Fortunately, I already see many good examples in the country. They deserve a broad imitation, and I am encouraging them, but that does not mean that we are done with that programme when the law is passed. The implementation programme that we have launched with other governments will also continue intensively in the coming period. Working on both legislation and implementation will ultimately enable us to complete the reform of the system as a whole. What's this participation gonna look like? We are already seeing the positive effects of, for example, the Elverding approach on MIRT routes. Elverding has said: how can it be that spatial projects and road projects take so much time, but often die halfway through the process? He has advised us to involve all stakeholders much more at the front, to consider alternatives as well and to be clear and transparent. That process has been going on for a while, and it's been successful. Thanks to the Environment Act, such a structure will be followed not only in infrastructure projects, but much wider in environmental projects. We want more participation at the beginning of the decision-making process. It is not about the formal moments, but about the preparation of environmental visions, environmental plans and project decisions, for example. You have to make sure you have the interests on the table. Then you can weigh the interests in conjunction and search for smart combinations. Citizens, businesses and civil society organisations also have an interest in quality decisions. They like to think along. Early participation creates not only the best plans, but also support. This is again important in the future of the various projects that we or others want to implement. The parties will not feel attacked because they will feel that they have been heard. I'm going to go into that in more detail. This will therefore become an integral part of large, complex projects. It applies not only to infrastructure projects but also to all spatial projects. The Project Decision is used for major projects. It states that the competent authority is to draw up a participation plan, that there is a broad exploration phase in which all interests are widely identified, and that everyone can propose solutions that should also be taken seriously into consideration. In environmental plans, environmental visions and programmes, the administrative bodies should indicate how they have organised the input of citizens, businesses and civil society organisations. When applying for a permit, an initiator must also indicate how he is doing this. That is also what I am going to do in the implementing regulations, i.e. in the AMvBs and the ministerial regulations. The regulation thus encourages participation. The way the participation takes place, of course, varies on a case-by-case basis. That calls for customization. That is also what the Chamber has asked for. She has actually said to me: you have committed that participation is taking place, but how it is taking place is also relevant. I see many forms around me, such as council chairs, design studios, city talks, discussion forums and surveys. A few years ago we didn't really do internet consultation, but we do so everywhere. More and more people are asking whether internet consultation has already taken place. I wouldn't be surprised if everyone says in ten years' time: well, but we haven't been able to look at it with the VR glasses! Those are virtual reality glasses, I say for those who don't know that term yet. But no doubt you all know that concept, since the First Chamber was digitized rather than the Second Chamber. In any case, new ways of making participation more attractive and easier for people are emerging. I don't think you should lay down in the law how to do that, because it's not a question of ticking what you've done. It's much more a question of innocence: how do you ensure that you as a board take people enthusiastically into participation? This requires an active attitude, an active role of the governing body. It's about the governance culture. Really listening to society doesn't set you down in rules. On the basis of the various questions in the Chamber, I do have a proposal for further anchoring and improving this, so that those who find this difficult and complex can be helped. Maybe we can get the SCP first. We asked for an understanding of how best to organise this participation. I was pleased to hear Mrs Jorritsma say that the SCP report is not a charge against the Environment Act. It says: it is very good that you want to do this, but if you are going to do it, think about it there and there and there. For example, the SCP mentions the high quality of communication. You need to be clear about your goals. You must have enough reliable information. As a government, you must also have good antennas for whom you should be involved. You should also be aware of the scope and limits of participation. So you shouldn't be asking citizens over. I think it's very good that the SCP comes with that. I also include these conditions in the implementation programme that I started with the co-governments. I do this, for example, when drawing up the National Environment Vision. Participation is not new, of course. We have a lot of experience with previous projects. Especially in the spatial sphere you can see that a lot is actually already happening in that area. Space for the River is a project in which, for example, very intensive participation has taken place with all those involved in the river projects. I cannot imagine that we could do such projects without such an intention. Where the King once talked about the participatory society, everyone thought it had something to do with decentralised care and people having to do more themselves. The participatory society has long been a reality in the field of spatial planning. You can't put a shovel in the ground without involving the surroundings. So there is a lot of experience with it in the country. I am convinced that this can also work in the broadest sense. What could you do, among other things, to shape that a little more? I have just mentioned the formal nature of the major projects, the environmental plans and the initiators. You could, for example, see if we could eventually create a participation programme with the VNG, IPO Union, the environmental organisations and VNO-NCW on how various parties can be best involved in applications. It is therefore a question of helping to shape a process of participation. I've sent a design team into the country for spatial planning. That's the O-Team, named after the A-Team. Some of you may know that, others may not. It helps municipalities to design for some more difficult projects. In this way you can also think that a ministry makes people available to shape such a process of participation. We can draw up a hand-out together with the parties I just mentioned. We can make people available who can help shape such a participation path. We can also ask the VNG to combine the hand-out and model environment plan developed by the VNG. Several questions have been asked about this. I think D66 came first, but others also mentioned this. In my view, this is one of the ways of anchoring that participation process even further and more firmly towards the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u37	Thank you for these answers. I have a question about something the Minister mentioned earlier. Everything she now says about participation, for example that it has to be done early and that it is regulated by the law, is about participation in large, complex projects. Why do the obligations in the law limit themselves to this? Shouldn't it be the case that citizens and all kinds of groups can participate fully in all kinds of activities, and that the possibility of early participation is regulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u38	I didn't limit it to big projects. I just indicated that you have a project decision in the major projects. Participation is also included in environmental plans, visions and programmes. In doing so, administrative bodies should indicate how they have dealt with the input of citizens, businesses and civil society organisations. Individual project promoters must do the same when applying for a permit. They must therefore indicate how they have dealt with participation. I have also indicated that I would like to go back to the implementing rules. So that's what you're seeing here in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u39	According to this law, is participation fully mandatory in an ordinary activity that you cannot call a complex project, but where the municipality, for example, has something to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u40	In large projects you really have a project decision. That is an instrument that is being designed. In the case of environmental plans, visions and programmes, the municipality must indicate how it organised the participation. The same applies to the individual initiator. That can be you, or a company, or your neighbor or neighbor. It should also indicate how he or she organised the participation. I just said at least I want to see if we can have a team that can help with that. I would like to draw up a hand-out with a number of parties. I want to see whether this can be included in the model environment plan by the VNG. In the end, we also have an annual monitor for the implementation programme. We can make participation a part of that. The Chamber receives this monitor annually and can therefore keep an annual view of the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u41	That monitor sounds good, especially in the run-up to the institution law. We can then keep a finger on the wrist in the way the cultural change starts. One of my group's concerns was the representativeness of participation. I like to hear how it can be secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u42	We're actually already practicing with the writers of environmental plans. We are also looking at how these participation pathways run. That's why we evaluated pilots. Long before the law comes into force at all, we're already looking at what you come across. That's just so interesting because you learn the most from the operation in practice. The issue of representativeness is also an interesting one. You can see how you can improve them further and further in more participatory projects. The question is, at the end of the day, do you want to involve everyone? It doesn't always have to be. At least you want it to be available and possible for everyone. As is the case now, some parties are more interested in participating than others. If you as a municipality do not reach some target groups, although you would very much like them to be part of a participation project, I think you should find out how to do it best and how to reach a particular type of target group. I've been alderman myself, and I know how complex it is when you organize an evening about parking garages or spots in the street. Hardly anyone comes when you know it's a hot item. The minute you drive into the street to lift the place, everyone's on their back legs. It will be easier to participate for people who do not have it as a profession because you have many more digital tools. Nowadays, you can get a signal on your computer if you have been asked for a permit near you, for example, if you sign up for it. You don't have to wait for something to happen. You can see that pretty early.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u43	This is all based on the good, benevolent government. I'd like to assume that, too. At the same time, I have a concern. If there are certain ground positions or financial estimates in a municipality, it should be avoided that there are groups that are less troublesome to put it mildly, while there are no groups that ask difficult questions. How is that looked at? Can the Minister say a little more about that? For me, representativeness isn't just involving groups that you like to see coming. I recognize that image. On the contrary, it is a question of involving this difficult citizen from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u44	In the current legislation, there are no instruments for this. Participation is relatively limited. What I intend to do with this law is to strengthen participation on the front. Previously, I made a route decision, in which people around a road spoke about it. Halfway there was: oh yes, there is also a nature interest and another interest. During the process, you suddenly had to try to identify all kinds of alternatives. This law is exactly what you want to think about in the front of the table if you have asked all the interested parties at the table. Those are also those who have a different interest than yourself. If you have not done that properly as a municipality, you can be called upon to do so if you then make decisions. That's because you have to make a participation plan in a project decision and you have to make it clear in environmental visions. The city council is, of course, the body responsible for ensuring that all these different interests are represented. I think it's only gonna get better with this. Does that always get everyone? I don't think I can give a yes to that. Mrs Bikker will understand that, too. It is and remains the case that some target groups are difficult to reach and do not really want to. Mrs Stienen has asked to share best practices through the Lane of the Environment. The best practices are already being shared digitally. My commitment is that this will continue to be possible after the entry into force, through the implementation programme. The PvdA has asked whether citizens and groups should not have the right to an objective test of the information, because of course you need good information if you want to participate. Citizens are entitled to information that is objective. The competent authority is also responsible for this. That digital system is going to be very helpful in shaping it properly. Now you often see that municipalities have to do all kinds of research themselves, over and over again. That is not yet clear to everyone. Soon a digital system will make it possible to keep the data up-to-date, and in which you actually want to find a way to put a stamp on that data to say that it is good for individual citizens much easier to access such information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u45	I'm still asking two questions about participation. My group has asked how the Minister intends to engage in the development of the National Environment Vision. I'm curious how she looks at the difference with the participation ladder: people who think along and almost decide on the level of co-creation. My second question related to participation is still about representativeness. Following on from what Mrs Bikker has asked, how do we get people who do not even know they are stakeholders in this participation process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u46	My response to the first question about the National Environment Vision: that must be a co-creative process, as it is called. This means, among other things, cooperation with citizens. The very first development of this is a renewed Consultation Infrastructure and Environment in which besides companies and civil society organisations, citizens are invited to talk about the National Environment Vision. The first will take place on 29 March. So we're gonna get right on that. In addition, we are currently developing tools to shape that process of co-creation in the right way. An example of this is the Workshop Novi, National Environment Vision, in which we organise a dialogue with various parties. We will come to the Chamber with the agenda for that environmental vision. The outside world will be able to see them, so all parties will automatically join up with ideas and the desire for involvement. It is explicitly intended that this should become a co-creative process. The second question was: how do you ensure that certain groups are involved? Again, this is a form, an instrument we have chosen. That instrument says: make sure you involve various stakeholders at the front of an intervention or an initiative you want to take. That means people who are in favour and people who are against. If you are smart, make sure you also have the opponents at the table, otherwise you will have much more trouble later in the process because you can object and appeal. So that actually gives the initiators an incentive to really look and make sure that certain groups are there. When it comes to representativeness, I think that people will be able to bring together both fronts and opponents. Then there are certain groups that are underrepresented in social participation at all. That could be because of language elements, education or whatever. That will always be complex. People have to want to. I also indicated, however, that it is becoming increasingly easier by sending out signals that something is happening in the environment. We will try to offer it as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u47	I have a follow-up question in which I also address myself. You will not believe what our PVV colleague has said about participation in asylum-seekers' centres. We have seen in The Hague that people in some neighbourhoods were just a little more mature and had more time than in other neighbourhoods, where people don't really understand how these kinds of processes are going. My party relies greatly on people's own strength, but also wants those voices to be heard. I am therefore not entirely satisfied with the answer 'we know that people can't occasionally participate'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u48	Perhaps these groups on this subject are often well represented in the participation process. You can see that in the many programmes we have seen there in recent times. It is precisely with this law that groups are brought to the table at the front. Everyone is invited, it is made known and made available. Some groups may come to such an asylum-seekers' centre, but not to the environmental vision. And that's the other side of the story: we can't drag them in. However, we can do as much as possible to keep the threshold low.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u49	I would just like to say a word about the assumption that people who come to participate in an asylum-seekers' centre are by definition opposed: that is, of course, not always correct. There are also many people who come to such an evening of participation because they think that such a centre should be built near them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u50	It happens. It would be nice, however, if the people who are positive about something would be as active as the people who are against something. Usually the difference in the ratio is considerable and in the debate you see the proponents less well than the opponents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u51	Can I ask the Minister another question about the stamp placed on objective information? Of course, the law assumes that the competent authority is responsible for quality. I was particularly concerned about accessibility. If you don't agree with the information the government brings out, where can you get a review before you come into a legal debate and go to court to get you right about the reliability of that environmental information? I suggested a facility that helps people at that time; not the people who want to think creatively, but the people who ask "what's the real deal, can someone explain to me if my interest is served with the purpose the government is pursuing?'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u52	I think that this is an instrument that will often be used, depending on the size and complexity of a project. Let me give you the example of the windmills. That was discussed in the Chamber. Then it was said: could the objectors also get objective information about windmills, could they be supported by a team that explains to them what the information actually means? In such a large and complex story you see such a thing occur. I don't think you should do that for everything; you shouldn't want to do that by rooftop. However, it is one of the instruments that a municipality can use to support citizens well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u53	Then it is the municipality that the minister believes is responsible. However, I am concerned with the system of responsibility that the Minister has. She can say "I'll take care of it myself and offer it." It may also decide to agree with the umbrella organisations to set up such a joint venture. In my picture it might as well be about traffic in the street where I live, or whether one-way traffic can be realized there. It doesn't just have to be about 150 meters high windmills. It's really about issues that can affect my immediate environment, where I want a test. I would not just like to leave that to the official who says to me:'sir, we have it right for you.'
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u54	That's why I talked about the stamp. We aim to ensure that all information, for example about nature, noise, emissions and cadastral data, is good, up-to-date and reliable. "Good and up-to-date" is also important because it must be the Council of Stateproof. You must ensure that it can be used so that it does not appear during a professional or objection procedure or a legal process that the information used was incorrect. Because all of this is now collected individually by various studies, we have said that we want to make a Lane of the Environment. I'm going to go into this in more detail later on, in which that information becomes available to everyone, updated and reliable. In the field of emissions, the information we have is already very up-to-date and reliable. RIVM is watching that. He's gonna put a stamp on that. In nature, however, there is still a lot to do to update that information. That means we still have a job to do. It means that as an individual, as a citizen, we do not get the information through the municipality that we do not know for sure whether it is coloured or not, but in the end we can look at it and ask for it ourselves. If you do not trust or question the institutions, it will of course be a difficult discussion. In addition, I indicated that sometimes it will prevent the deployment of a team that helps people in very large, complex projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u55	I am partly concerned about accessibility. There are, of course, large data files, but the question is whether they are accessible to citizens who are not involved in this matter on a daily basis. Shouldn't they be helped? Partly, I'm concerned that sometimes when you're a competent authority, you're also the initiator. Do you have to calibrate the information yourself, or is there also a possibility to ask an independent third party as a citizen for an opinion on whether the information in that place is correct? Those data files are of course very abstract and global and they give a lot of meta-information. Accessibility could be useful if you are helped as a citizen. I would also like to draw attention to the Montessori democracy report by Tonkens and others, which highlights the group of people who do not have the opportunity to make time available to go into this every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u56	I understand that question very well. On the other hand, I am faced with the dilemma of whether it is mandatory to impose a law. That means that you should offer this from big to small and of course there is also a cost side, a time side and everything. We are, of course, trying to ensure that participation is shaped as much as possible by the authority that takes an initiative. That could be local authority, provincial authority or the Empire. We are trying to get that authority to design the projects as well as possible and to make it clear how it does it. Sometimes such a form of support is needed and sometimes not. An individual can, of course, always ask for his own advice. I do not know whether Mr Verheijen is looking for that, but to oblige everyone and always to do so seems to me to be a very expensive and complex task. Then you have to create a whole framework to always be able to deliver it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u57	I hear the Minister say that citizens can be supported by municipalities with objective information. So it's a possibility. In the meantime, I have experienced situations where wind farms were realized and municipalities absolutely did not come up with information about the bridge towards objectionable citizens. Municipalities didn't even want to talk to citizens anymore. To what extent can these citizens fall back on anything if a municipality behaves like this and is not prepared to provide objective information? Is there a solution or something they can go to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u58	That is why we at windmills have finally chosen to create a national team where people can ask questions. That was set up fairly recently. It is now the first experience. Mr Van Hattem and others, including the CDA, have asked questions about the windmill route. I think it would work better to do that whole stretch under the Environment Act anyway, because you would have asked everyone at the front of the table. For example, windmills are now organised. There's a national team to do that. It's gonna be necessary sometimes, and sometimes it won't. That depends on the size of an initiative. If someone wants to build a piece of their business, or if someone has a sustainability initiative, it may well be that there is no need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u59	This indeed depends on the situation, but we are talking about situations that have a major impact on their environment regardless of the initiator. If the initiative is based on the Empire, there is apparently such a wealthy one, but if the initiative is taken by the municipality or by a private developer of a windmill park, they may say that they do not want to share their business secrets with other citizens. We have been seeing more and more such organisations lately, such as cooperatives that start wind farms. How is such a situation dealt with when residents need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u60	What is a trade secret is very clearly defined. So you can see exactly when it is or is not a matter of company confidentiality. We must distinguish throughout the discussion on windmills between the procedure as it has been up to now, and what it might be in the future, under the Environment Act. He's not here yet. With this Environmental Act, we aim to ensure that there is much more discussion of interests with various parties at the front. Now the discussion was: there will be renewable energy, the provinces will have the space to shape it, and if that does not happen, there will be a decision on national integration. That is, of course, a much more central control, in which the Empire has some kind of coercive means of achieving that. How does it go with participation in wind farms in the future? The legal protection of citizens is simply guaranteed, there is an equivalent level of protection. The remedies available in future instruments are similar to those currently available. Citizens can simply appeal to an environmental plan, project decision or permit. But there will be a greater emphasis on civic participation at the beginning of the decision-making process. I think that's just gonna give us a more positive answer. This does not mean that everyone will be for windmills at once, or that all windmills will disappear at once, but it does mean that you will start the debate much more. So you have guaranteed citizens' participation both in front and back of the decision-making process. Van Hattem asked if it was mainly about financial participation, but the bill is not about that. It is precisely about the participation of the process that he considers important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u61	It is good in itself that this participation has been settled in advance, but my concern is actually to what extent citizens are actually listened to when they participate. There are no requirements at all in the law on that point. Information meetings can be organised, citizens can be informed and have their say. If, then, little or perhaps nothing is done about this participation, to what extent is it going to help them? However, I would like to see something on the table that these citizens can fall back on, because something concrete needs to be done with what they have a say in. I'm not saying that for nothing. Pilots, for example with stables that are being expanded, have shown that a hedge is then placed around them to remove them from the landscape, to fit them landscapeally, and that's it. The main objections to stench and the like remain. In windmills or azc's, that's really no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u62	The tricky thing about participation is that you can do it very well, but ultimately for good substantive reasons you can choose not to take over the ideas that have been put forward. You can also choose to do so, because a good proposal has been put on the table. How do you even organize that it's not a farce stake? That's the question. I think it's simple. I have the same thing, of course, on highways. I organize participation, I have to present alternatives and there are several parties who say that the road should be right instead of left, or above ground instead of underground. All kinds of alternatives are being introduced. I have to respond to that in substance. Then I have to show the Chamber what I have done with participation. Sometimes I say it's a good plan and I take over some of it. Sometimes I say it can't be done at all, because trucks just about drop down when a tunnel is laid. You just have to open it up, you have to give a substantive answer, but in the end you have your own considerations as a driver and you make your own choice. You can never say that it has been good participation if so much percent has been taken over. You have to be able to show that you have taken participation and the alternatives seriously. I cannot estimate whether the example Mr Van Hattem mentions about the hedge around it was the only option and whether it was a good participation process. But I can say that the Chamber is calling me to account and ask if I have done the participation right. So I can't hide it. My experience is that she is going to discuss all the alternatives with me again to hear again why I did not choose them. There is also a democratic process at every level: at the municipality the city council, at the province of the Provincial States and at the Reich the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u63	Mr. Van Hattem, it's all the way to the end, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u64	Yes, very briefly. I am concerned that in the further implementing regulations something could perhaps be drawn up which would provide a basis for a reasoned response or a response. In any case, there must be something that citizens can fall back on when an initiator sets something up in an environment. I'm missing that too much in the bill right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u65	Clear. I just said I'd like to give the Chamber a handshake. I will, together with at least the VNG, who will be the most affected, but also with other interested parties, see how we can shape the participation process in such a way that we can also support it at the beginning. You have to do that with some pilots. We had already started those pilots ourselves to see how that actually works. However, I would like to say to Mr Van Hattem and to the other Members of Parliament that they should take a step further in order to be able to support this implementation project.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u66	I had asked how the Minister looks at the situation in which citizens participate but are ultimately disappointed by the end result. I hear her now saying that she would like to see what you could do about it with the VNG and other domes. That's fine. I also assume that at least an administrative body has a duty to motivate why it may make a choice other than through participation. That seems to me to be a minimum requirement. Even so, there will be great disappointment in a number of cases, because the expectations are different. At least that is a critical process. This also comes clearly from the essay of the SCP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u67	That's what I'm supposed to do. You have an obligation to explain: you have to explain what you've done with it. However, this is also about exemplary behaviour. Mr Flierman asked for this too. The Empire must also show exemplary behavior. He called the windmills. In doing so, the Empire must give real space to the local authorities to realize this. So it's about behavior and motivation. If you don't motivate it properly at the end, then you can have problems with it again in the rest of the process. With the Environmental Act, we aim at participation on the front, so that you can make decisions faster on the back. If you don't do that right in front, you're actually gonna shoot yourself in the foot. The council members' initiative has been mentioned, among others by the PVV. I also saw that letter. I had a bit of the idea that that was really about the old situation, because the Environment Act puts local authorities more at the centre when it comes to responsibility for the living environment. However, Rijk and Province should not be able to realise projects themselves, but only as a state and province can define this as a national or provincial interest, for example because of super-local interests, such as water security or energy supply. But municipalities and citizens are not out of play. There are even more opportunities for municipalities and citizens to be involved in the preparation of decision-making in relation to the current regulations in the Environment Act. For broad participation in a project decision, you need to have a exploration phase in which you have a broad view of all interests, you need to indicate who, when and in what way is involved, and everyone, including the municipalities, must be actively invited to propose solutions. You have to deal with this seriously, because the project decision must also explicitly address the results of participation and the way it has taken into account when adopting the project decision. That means you can't handle it lightly. Everyone can then also comment on the draft project decision. Interested parties may also appeal. Residents and local authorities are therefore never out of play, even if a provincial or national interest is defined, because you have to go through the whole process properly. There are still a few questions about participation and then I would like to move on to legal certainty. Mrs Stienen asked how the requirement to provide information on consultation was met. The legislative proposal lays down the basis for the proposer to submit information on how he involved residents when applying for a permit. This is achieved in the implementing legislation. Mrs Bikker talked about the self-interest that can prevent an administrative body from applying participation in a good way. The city council can eventually correct an administrative body in that regard. Is there any consultation with other directors on the quality of the local media? That was also a question from Mrs Bikker. The Ministry of BZK talks about the position of the local media and its impact on the system of checks-and-balances. The Ministry of BZK is working with the VNG and the Ministry of OCW to provide assistance to municipalities and in particular council members in strengthening the provision of news via local media. But in that country too, a lot is changing. I think it's good that they do it, but nowadays there are many other ways in which people learn about news. Mrs Stienen asked whether participation could lead to a reduction in formal steps in appeal and appeal procedures. I can reassure her: we do not exchange anything. Participation is dealt with in project decisions, environmental plans, environmental permits and environmental visions and programmes, but there is also a simple objection and appeal against project decisions, environmental permits and environmental plans. It's still possible as it was before. That is not possible against environmental visions and programmes, but it has never been. Those are only self-binding to those who determine them. They don't have any legal effects. That's the same thing as now with the structural visions. Participation is strengthened, but there is no question of a reduction in formal appeals and appeals. I will come back to legal protection and the specific questions on the two-week procedure. It came from the SP, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u68	I have another question about the environmental impact assessment and the procedure for it, because this law does indeed provide for participation in the project. is limited. This restricts the possibility of alternatives and does not involve an independent quality test. It seems to me that this would be a significant reduction in the scope for participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u69	I had stopped this answer at "other." I'll see where that is, but we've had that discussion before, including in the House of Representatives. Your concern stems from an investigation by the PBL. As far as I am concerned, the PBL does not consider it necessary to investigate alternatives in a project-m.e.r. if a location or route is designated, for which no plan-m.e.r. is made. For a project all reasonable alternatives should be examined, e.g. installation alternatives. Alternative locations or tracés at a plan-m.e.r. You don't need to examine a project-m.e.r. It actually means you don't realize doubles. At the first you can map everything and then you don't have to do it a second time. In this law we have ensured that there is no accumulation of the same type of investigation. Therefore, the regulation of the Crisis and Recovery Act that no alternatives are being investigated for certain projects does not appear in the Environmental Act. In the Environment Act, that's just another thing. We often go there with the Commission. We are working together with municipalities on how best to shape this. Mrs Vos also mentioned the evaluation obligation that according to the bill only for the plan-m.e.r. is valid. That is also in line with the M.E.R. guidelines. In the meantime, the draft law for implementation is in the Lower House. A project evaluation scheme is now also foreseen and will be included in the Environmental Act by means of the introduction law. Finally, I can say that the competent authority at project-m.e.r. It will be up to the Commission to decide whether or not to do so. advice is requested. This actually strengthens the responsibility of the competent authority for the quality of the m.e.r. The m.e.r. and its function is therefore not restricted by the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u70	Let me ask you a question. In fact, the Minister says that the obligation remains to examine alternatives to a particular project or activities. If that's in the plan-e.e.r. Insufficient attention has been given to this in a project-m.e.r. Done. If that is the case, I wonder how the Minister can say that the competent authority ultimately determines whether advice is requested. It could also be important for citizens to have alternatives, even if a college of B and W or GS does not have much sense of it. Isn't that a right that needs to be laid down more among citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u71	I think that's what the initiator could ask for. I mentioned the municipality and that is why I was talking about competent authority, but I think the initiator can also get an m.e.r. questions. Someone who wants to set up a company or water boards that are working on sustainability projects by using bacteria to clean the water for renewable energy, can also ask what the effects are and how they can best shape it. If that is not true, I will come back to that, but what I can remember from the discussion in the House of Representatives can also be the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u72	Finally, Mrs. Fox!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u73	Finally, but I am concerned about that, because if the initiator wants to set up a nice large company, he may not be very keen on all kinds of alternatives that everyone is going to interfere with. That remains my point. You must also lay down the law on the side of citizens who may be concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u74	Yes, but there is a difference between showing all reasonable alternatives, alternatives, alternative locations or routes and asking the Commission for advice in particular. It's like giving up some kind of blessing on what's been done. That's a choice and that allows you to strengthen your project if you do it in a good way, but you have to show the alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u75	The Minister has just indicated that it is possible to appeal as a citizen against an environmental vision or a programme. Is it also possible to appeal as a citizen in cases where a certain standard is exceeded in the personal living environment, for example the standard of air quality? Is it possible to appeal that as a citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u76	That depends on how it is formulated and what it is about. For air quality we have programmes, which often look at an entire area and not an individual point. So you cannot say that at an individual point the air quality standard is exceeded, because there is often a total programme behind it, just like with nitrogen or with particulate matter. So it depends a little on what it is that individual citizen wants to object to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u77	I also ask the question because the government is interested in this and not the citizen, if I understand correctly. Are we not excluding citizens from the possibility of appealing in individual cases, and is this only possible when it comes to such a programme that is set for a certain period of time? I mentioned the example of air quality, but it could also be smell in the construction of a manure digester, for example. Can an individual citizen go to court if he is not an interested party, but there are real health risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u78	I have just indicated that the possibilities of appeal and objection in the current legislation do not change by the Environment Act. Whether or not to be interested plays a role in whether or not you are involved in the front. I shall come back to this in the second term or later, but I do not think there is any reduction in the appeal and objection possibilities. However, there are restrictions for municipalities, for example to object to another government, but not at the individual level. However, if it is different, Mrs Teunissen will hear it. I have three further comments on cultural change and then I would like to move on to legal protection. The question is whether cultural change will actually take place as a result of the pilots. I will not deny that there is an enormous change in the situation, as the evaluation of the pilot's environmental vision has shown. That's why I'll be accompanying the pilots longer. The task is great, so we have to get to work now. The good thing is that we are actually already working, long before the law is even there. By the time there is, we will have a few more years to practice with it, and together with the other authorities, I will provide knowledge sharing through the implementation programme and I will encourage good initiatives. To Mr Flierman's question, I have to say that this cannot be achieved with one stroke of pens. It is an explicit part of a long-term programme to be rolled out in the various municipalities. We ensure the continuity of such a multi-annual programme by doing it together with waterboards, IPO, the Empire and the provinces. Mrs Meijer of the SP asked if a safety net clause is needed if the cultural change is not ready in time. All administrative bodies see that date approaching, of course. What a number of directors were doing very intensively at first, you can see that it goes deeper and deeper into the organizations. I am also confident that they will anticipate and prepare for the future in good time. In my opinion, businesses and citizens also expect this cultural change from their own government. Apart from the law, you can see at all that they want the government to be more open, more transparent and more participatory. The next cabinet will ultimately decide whether the planned time of entry into force will actually be feasible. However, I do not think that we should wait until all the administrative bodies are ready. Those who have not taken action should not be rewarded with that. That is why I am not thinking directly of a safety net clause, but above all of a substantial investment in the front in order to get that done by the other parties. I'm gonna keep my finger on the wrist, because eventually I'm gonna monitor that, too. The implementation programme will be monitored, so culture change will also be dealt with. It will start in 2016 and the funding of the implementation programme is currently being discussed. In doing so, I have reduced the amount of cultural change, which is a very important issue, in order to continue with legal protection. The most important question, raised by several members of this Chamber, is whether the deadline for the entry into force of decisions, plus the impact on citizens' responses, is not too short. As far as I am concerned, the regulation on this issue provides sufficient guarantees for citizens. 'Cause how's it going, anyway? We have opted for a single uniform regime for entry into force. In the past, this scheme sometimes entered into force immediately, as soon as the authorisation was granted. Think of a rooftop chapel. Sometimes there was a longer period of time, because a decision was taken with irreversible consequences. Think of a hairdressing permit. We chose to make it one system. We have determined that all environmental permits will enter into force two weeks after publication. For some licences this is shorter than today, but for others it is longer than now. Does that create a worse position for those involved? Do people have enough time to be aware at all that they have to act on it? There are different sides to this. Because you organize that participation well, you're already much more involved in the front. Actually, it's not new: you've had a very long period of time in which everyone knows what's coming. If that permit is granted, it is actually the end of a long process. Furthermore, the system of entry into force is independent of the time limit for lodging objections and appeals. Perhaps these two aspects are mixed up; I had that feeling from time to time. It's just a six-week term. Where an objection and appeal is lodged within two weeks and an application for interim relief is made, that authorisation shall be suspended until a decision is taken by the court. The licence will not enter into force. That's actually an extra guarantee, a plus compared to the current Awb. A provisional application may also be requested after that two-week period. Then the judge must decide whether the permit is still suspended. Even that step is still there. The judge can then very quickly assess whether there is cause for suspension, possibly after telephone contact with the parties. In the event of an emergency, a licence may be suspended without a hearing. That is one of the possibilities. I think that this whole interplay really provides good protection for citizens: longer participation at the front and a two-week period that has become shorter for some permits and for some longer. If you're going to put in a longer period of time for all these things, you'd have to wait a few weeks for a lot of things that you can deal with right away at the time of authorisation. Think of the rooftop chapel. The fact that this time limit for appeal and objection stays for six weeks, because it can have a suspensive effect and because even after those two weeks the court can give a suspensive effect, I think that legal protection is very well protected. I do not know if that was clear enough in the legal texts now before us, but I hope that will take away the concerns in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u79	Article 1679 (3) states that, under urgent circumstances, the administrative authority can say that we are not doing so. No provisional application may therefore be made. How does the current provision in the Wabo relate, where it is clearly stated and secured what urgency means? I found that hard to find now. My concern is that an administrative body should say fairly easily: in this case a provisional provision is excluded. What's a civilian gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u80	I'll get to that. I can only imagine that you can only do this if you have a very good reason. If you don't, you're gonna get whistled back by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u81	I'm glad the Minister's coming back to that. I would like to hear how this relates explicitly to the Wabo, where this was well arranged for my taste. Now it's an open end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u82	I do have a problem with the fact that you say, precisely in relation to irreversible decisions, such as cutting down a row of trees in a street, that the two weeks for applying for suspensive action are sufficient. Of course, it is not always the case that this has already been preceded by a long and long journey. That's just the question. When it comes to a smaller activity, it could well be that many people have been robbed by it. For larger and more complex projects, extensive involvement of people is organised, but for a few minor interventions this is not always the case. People can be very surprised by such a decision. Then there is an extremely short period of time. Then there's no point in calling the judge, because those trees are already down. To avoid such situations, more time is needed than those two weeks. It is true that it is now six weeks and that it is two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u83	Is your question following, Mrs. Jorritsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u84	Yes. I hear the hairdressing license coming through all the time. But as far as I know, a city can't issue a hairdressing permit to itself at all. An avenue with trees is a public area, where a municipality is allowed to cut down without any permit. The fact that a municipality carries out proper participation is true, but this does not involve a licensing procedure. We mention examples that are not in line with practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u85	Thank you for your justified comment. I'll correct myself. An initiator wants a hairdressing permit. There's got to be trees cut somewhere because he wants something somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u86	Again, we have chosen to harmonise. You can always create a differentiated system with irrevocable and repulsive decisions. However, we have chosen to ensure, through harmonisation, that clarity can be provided fairly quickly to the various initiators. The shortening of the period for irrevocable decisions and the extension of the period for a number of other decisions that can be taken immediately the day after, is a reasonable period of time, because of the front and because of the fact that, if you raise an appeal and objection, you can immediately achieve suspensive effect, provided you have a good story. You say if you don't look in the paper for two weeks, you have a problem. But that too is changing more and more. You now have all kinds of very accessible sites that, if desired, transmit events in your living environment. You can be informed immediately when a permit is granted. I recently renovated my house. I was told that a permit had been applied for in my street, in front of my own house. I could see that that works very well and quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u87	Actually, the minister makes it appear that people are sitting on the oat chest like a goat and checking their mailbox every day to see if anything has changed. People are confronted with something, then they are surprised about it first, then they start to think about what they think about it and finally start to think about what to do. They are going to seek information and then it will take quite a while before they come to the conclusion what to do and how to do it. But then I agree with Mrs Vos: the tree will be over. Can the Minister not imagine that a little more time is needed for this? Can she go into more detail about the fact that shortening a period of six weeks to a period of two weeks actually amounts to comparing apples with pears?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u88	In fact, we say that we no longer want to use all these different instruments. Some procedures, where you had the license immediately the day after it was granted, we'll extend it a little bit. Other procedures, for which there was a longer period, we would like to shorten a little. I heard Mrs Meijer's story very well. She asked whether the two-week period was real. My story on the other hand is that, of course, you have to involve stakeholders much longer in advance when you want to take an initiative. So it couldn't have passed you by. Whether you want to respond to that is something else. The longer start-up period you have. Similarly, the right to appeal and appeal subsequently does not change. The period for this is just six weeks. So you still have all the forms of appeal and objection against it. All you have to do is say you want to appeal and appeal and then it comes to the judge. The court shall then decide whether a suspensive effect is necessary or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u89	I agree with the Minister, but she is based on people who are already aware that they are appealing and objecting. I take as my starting point the people who are doing all kinds of things, who have indeed just washed their son's or daughter's football shirts, then read that something happens here or there in their neighborhood and then think about it. You have to realize that not everyone knows all the roads. How do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u90	That is why we have built in an extra escape route, as I said to Mrs Meijer. Even after the two-week period, an application for interim measures may be made, whereby the court decides whether the authorization is still suspended. The judge shall then assess whether there is cause for suspension. I've already indicated that that can even be done by phone, to make it simple. At the moment, of course, there is a mess of regulations. The Environment Act is also trying to get some uniformity in that. In the past there has been a period of six weeks for one and a period of zero days for the other. This is how all these sectoral regulations have been put in place. We have looked at what a real deadline would be to do this right. We've chosen a two-week deadline. If you make the term much longer, you have to make far too long about simple decisions, when you could actually know tomorrow. We also didn't want a much shorter period, because you do need time to settle things down. That's where the front was added, as I said before. We hope people will just be aware early on that something is about to happen in their neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u91	Very briefly, Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u92	I would suggest to the Minister that some of the parties that are concerned about this should be addressed. For example, she can make it four instead of two weeks; that hardly saves time. Perhaps the Minister could comment on how much time this uniformity actually brings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u93	It is not only about time savings, but also about the fact that the law harmonises on all subjects. We go to one type of decision, to the same forms of participation and to the same deadlines. Of course, I have thought about what it matters if the time limit for such a process is two or four weeks. The other way around, however, means that you have to wait four weeks for all those very simple permits, when you get them right now when they are granted. So there is not even such a reflection period available at the moment. That's why we came out at the two-week deadline. I hope to be able to convince Mrs Meijer that there is still sufficient guarantee for the citizen, because the time limit for appeal and objection is six weeks and because after those two weeks you can still apply for a suspensive effect in court. On the other hand, a four-week deadline for a lot of others, who want to achieve something quickly and have submitted a simple application, would result in a month's delay. That's a difficult trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u94	I do see the point of harmonizing the deadlines and therefore also of ending the lex silencio positivo, the environmental permit. However, my question focuses on something else. I mentioned just now in my speech that there is, of course, also a time limit for publication in the law. I do not know whether the Minister will come back to that, but the law states that the publication of an environmental permit should in principle take place without delay. The two-week period shall start to run from the date of the decision of the College. In practice, I notice that there is often at least a week before publication, whether online or in a newspaper. This often leaves a week or less to react as a citizen or as a resident. How can the publication deadline also be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u95	I assume that it will take effect when it is published, because that is always the case with all the national policies. I can check it out in a minute. Of course, a permit is not just granted. When applying, you must already indicate how to involve the residents. Each application received shall be published. As I have just indicated, the environmental alert can indicate that something is about to happen. So you can be aware of the permits being prepared and granted. We believe that a two-week period will also be sufficient, if necessary, to apply to the court for a preliminary ruling. I therefore believe that, overall, the balance between the desired speed and the guarantee of legal certainty is quite well designed in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u96	I would like to know whether this is the moment when the College takes its decision or when it will be published. And can a specific period of time be given for the term "without delay" used in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u97	I'll check it out. I think it's about the publication, but I'll check it out. Mrs Bikker asked a few questions about the comparison with legal protection under the Wabo and under the Environment Act. As I said, we want to put an end to the various regulations that are now in place with the two-week deadline. This uniform period of time offers legal protection, but does not keep the initiator waiting too long. The standard scheme in the Wabo is: immediate entry into force for almost all licences. Only the irreversible licences are subject to a period of six weeks. The standard rule in the General Administrative Law is: no suspensive effect. This will be an automatic suspension if the request is submitted within two weeks. This gives an additional protection through automatic suspension. I believe that this two-week period will enable us to reach a workable arrangement, both for irreversible activities and for other activities, also in view of the current practice in submitting applications for interim measures. There is therefore a difference with the Wabo, where there is an entry into force immediately or after six weeks in the event of irreversible permits. However, the automatic suspensive effect, which is included in this case, does not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u98	However, a little more precise: if I have read it correctly, the current legislative proposal states that, pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 16.79, an administrative body may choose not to apply that suspensive effect in the case of a provisional provision. That is what my question sees, because then it is a matter of urgency; that is how I understood the legislative proposal. That's defined in the Wabo. That is a little more precise than the Minister is saying. I'd like that to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u99	That is true; I would come back to that question as well. It'll come up later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u100	I have two questions. Mr Jorritsma just said that a municipality would not need a permit to move to tree-tops. In my opinion, a municipality has to provide an environmental permit in order to be able to shut down. Residents can then appeal and object to it. Is the current legislative proposal still in such a way that citizens can do so? My second question concerns the deadline. Citizens often ask for legal advice. It takes time, and the court also needs time to do so. So isn't that two-week period too short for the court to get that legal advice right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u101	That can happen very quickly. As I have indicated, it can even be done by telephone consultation with the judge and the suspensive effect can enter into force quickly. So there are short procedures for that. The second question was whether citizens can appeal and object to a decision under the Environmental Act. That's just it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u102	On the first point: the Minister says that it can be done with a phone call. I know of a court case in the City of The Hague, in which it took some time for independent legal advice to be given after obtaining legal advice from the administrative judge. So is it not the case that is at stake and the complexity of the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u103	Sure, but I've indicated that the judge can initiate the suspensive action at the time you object. This can even be done without a hearing; it can also be done quickly by telephone. It may also be that the judge needs time for that, but then he will of course start that suspensive action. If someone asks for that advice, you can't go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u104	Purely to understand the Minister: she has it in addition to the two weeks before the application for interim relief in six weeks for appeal and appeal. Does this mean that there are six weeks after publishing an environmental permit to object and appeal against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u105	Yes. You've got the permit and you've got the appeal period. That appeal and objection procedure remains the same. The authorisation has been shorter for some and longer for some, but at the time when you raise an objection or appeal, therefore a suspensive effect may occur, which means that the two-week period will no longer apply and will simply be overruled. That's actually extra compared to what was possible in the past. So it's gotten shorter, but there's also extra protection in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u106	I would now like to give the Minister the opportunity to make some progress with her own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u107	The Christian Union asked whether there is any deviation from the Wabo in the Environment Act at this point. The Wabo's scheme is implemented in the same way in the Environment Act. The arrangements for the entry into force of an authorisation with immediate effect are intended for exceptional urgent circumstances. An application for interim measures may still be made. It just doesn't have an automatic suspensive effect. The level of protection remains the same as in the Wabo; that was the question. Mrs Teunissen of the Party of Animals asked about the legal status of the citizen in a programmatic approach. A programme with a programmatic approach is a policy document. The People's Assembly is controlling. Citizens may ask the administration or parliament to implement, draw up or adapt the programme. If administrative bodies abandon their duties, citizens may request enforcement. That leads to an apple label decision. An individual citizen may also initiate civil proceedings if the conduct of an administrative body is unlawful. If the programmed approach gives direct consent to an activity, there is also an appeal against those parts of the programme, for example the Natura 2000 management plan. The law also lays down substantive requirements for the quality of the programmed approach to implementation obligations, measures and monitoring. Mrs Bikker asked whether the changes in legal protection did not have any negative consequences. As far as I am concerned, that is not the case. In the case of legal protection, the level of protection remains equivalent to the current level. There are, of course, shifts in the subject matter, but that is because we are building a new system where we are merging existing instruments into one instrument. We were just having a discussion about that. We believe that we are making responsible choices in these areas and that, all in all, the level of protection does not deteriorate, and even improves on a number of points. The PVV asked how the scheme of the Environmental Law Decree for the establishment of asylum seekers' centres is taken over in the Environment Act. That question is linked to a motion that she has tabled. I will respond immediately, even though the motion has already been tabled in the first term. In the Van Hattem motion under letter J, the PVV asks that no measures be introduced in the development of the AMvBs to facilitate the establishment of asylum seekers' centres, mosques and wind farms. With the Environment Act, we speed up procedures, but we keep the regular procedure as the main rule. We have a regular procedure for asylum seekers' centres, mosques and win turbine parks, but also for police stations and prisons. I'm just gonna give you some things that might be more desirable. This does not mean that another procedure will now be followed. When I am asked to follow a more extensive procedure, I will advise against it, because we arrange all the buildings that can be re-destined in the same way; just through the regular procedure. I think it is important to look at that, just like any other building that could be built and reused.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u108	At present, an asylum seekers' centre with the Environmental Law Decision can be more easily housed by means of a so-called "crumb clause', a crumb case. In the motion, I would ask that such measures to ease such processes should not be further included in the AMvBs. Indeed, a specific exception has been made for asylum seekers' centres under the 10th tranche of the Crisis and Recovery Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u109	We follow the Crisis and Recovery Act and the rules that have been made with it. For all re-destinations of buildings, the main rule is a regular preparation procedure. This should also be addressed by Mr Van Hattem: rapid procedures for giving buildings a different destination. I do not distinguish between the different ways in which a building is used: as childcare, school or azc. That's irrelevant to me. I think that is a substantive consideration that needs to be made within municipalities. The current procedures continue to apply to the buildings specifically named by Mr Van Hattem in his motion. Those are indeed procedures that are regular and therefore not extensive. That is now the regular procedure. I think I'm clear about that. If Mr Van Hattem asks me to follow the extensive preparation procedure for more things, such as asylum seekers' centres, wind turbines or mosques, I would advise against the motion. If he says that I should not loosen it further than what I have now, he is asking for something in his motion which I am already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u110	In all sharpness, we now have the Environmental Law Decree. This provision specifically aims to speed up the establishment of asylum seekers' centres, particularly in the outlying areas. Does that rule come back one-on-one in the AMvBs? In the context of this motion, I would like to make this clear. That is one of the questions I have asked here, namely whether it will be made even more flexible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u111	To be specific, we now have a regular procedure. The AMvB of the Crisis and Recovery Act states that one can follow a regular procedure. We're gonna have a regular procedure, too. So that does not change compared to the last decisions we have taken. All deviations from the Environmental Plan that are not subject to E.E.R. shall be subject to the regular procedure. That does mean a change, but not that I make a distinction between what comes in the building. Whether there is a school, a prison, an asylum centre or a mosque in a church, everyone has the same procedure. I come to the answers at the next tranche. I think it could be faster now, because these were the biggest themes. However, I should not say that too quickly because we also have the questions about the relationship between the law and the AMvBs, but I can answer them quickly. Many Members of the Chamber have asked me why I have chosen to shape the law in this way and I do a very large part of the norming in AMvBs. The main reason for this is to improve the clarity of the implementation practice. There are now differences without good reason. Let me give you an example. Environmental quality requirements for air are regulated at law level. Environmental quality requirements for water are regulated at AMvB level, while environmental quality requirements for soils are even regulated at ministerial level. If someone takes an initiative and wants to gain insight, it is very difficult for him to see the forest through the trees in the implementation practice. With the Environment Act, we want to put an end to this fragmentation by at least achieving overview and coherence at one level and by logically merging the rules into four AMvBs. Citizens and businesses will soon know where they stand. Moreover, AMvBs ultimately have the same effect as a law. An AMvB sometimes seems to be subordinate, but in terms of operation it is just as heavy. The advantage of a scheme at AMvB level compared to a law level is that you can implement European legislation in good time, because the procedures are just different from a legislative change. Already a very large part of our standards are regulated in AMvBs. Think of the Activity Decision and the Building Decision. The way the rules work doesn't make any difference, like I said. Moreover, the protection of interests is ensured in the same way. The standards are also equally strong and equally well known. I understand very well that the Upper House says "I have had the same discussion in the Lower House," because it is nice that I come up with such a law, but that one cannot yet see what is going to come up in the AMvBs. It is therefore not clear what will be the final content of this. That is why we are already in the process of consulting the AMvBs. Then we can already give an insight into what the design of it will be. I would prefer to do as much neutral as possible in the case of the AMvBs as regards the transfer of standards. After all, if you are going to discuss every policy area or think that there can actually be a stricter standard for one or a wider standard for another, you will not come to the conclusion of those four AMvBs at all. I would prefer to have this kind of discussion afterwards, when dealing with the substance of parts of the AMvBs or the law. For example, we have now dealt with nature policy separately in the Chamber. The committee on this subject has been able to discuss the content and make substantive choices. This is then included in the Environmental Act. I am speaking separately with the Chamber about land policy and expropriation policy. In this way, we can have a good and deep discussion of the substance. If you want to do all that at the AMvB's, it's gonna be a small war. It would be a shame if you let the instrument go down because of the substantive discussion. I think you really should choose to do this at two moments. Of course, I think it is important that the Second and First Chambers are extremely involved in the standardisation process. That is why we have opted for a suspension procedure, not only at the time of our adoption, but also when there will be changes in the future. In this way, the Chamber can really talk about the standards and choices made by the government and the Chamber. What time will be saved if Parliament makes the substantive involvement in the standard setting in the AMvB so heavy? That's what the PvdA and Christian Union were asking for. Parliament may consider the way in which it implements its involvement in each draft decision. The first time it will be talked about, and rightly so. But in the future it may well be said that this is a change, so we do not have to go back on that or we have little interest in discussing it much. This therefore offers the possibility of tailor-made work. Of course, important issues will require extensive consideration, but minor changes will no longer be automatically entrusted with a formal legislative procedure. That means, on balance, more efficiency. In addition, the AMvB procedure, as I said, offers better opportunities to transpose European legislation in good time. The lead time of a formal legislative procedure is already very fast because of the deadlines for transposition into European directives. After all, Europe has been behind us many times, because we have transposed our rules too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u112	I always think, if we want, we can work it out very quickly. That is what we see now in the case of wind at sea and electricity, but that aside. I would like to comment on what the Minister said, namely that it does not matter whether it is in an AMvB or in a law; it is equally legally certain and hard. I want to fight that. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on the following two points. Firstly, it is of course a big difference whether a Chamber, a Parliament, can amend or not. This enables the Chamber as co-legislator to play its role. You just can't do that with an AMvB. Secondly, I believe that what is in the law always goes above what is in the AMvB. Why does the Minister not choose to include in the law a number of crucial basic choices, which should in fact apply to all AMvBs covered by them? Then we do not run the risk of possible confusion between different AMvBs that a judge has to judge or whatever. In my view, it is important for legal status that you choose very carefully what really needs to be in the law, so that it applies at all times to all AMvBs that are underneath it. In my opinion, this will also increase clarity and visibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u113	For the operation of the rules, it makes no difference. The protection of interests is secured in an AMvB in the same way as in the law. Standards are also equally strong and well known. The reason not to include all the standards in the law was because we found it rather unclear if it was presented in that way. There would also be discussion about what belongs and does not belong in the law, because some are now at AMvB level, some at ministerial level and others at law level. For example, I will end up with the water specifically. Actually, I could do it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u114	I am now consciously choosing not only to talk about air, noise and water standards, but also about basic choices that are being made. How do you assess when a permit is needed or not? How do you assess how to assess compliance with basic environmental quality standards? That is the type of crucial assessment rules that I think should really be in the law. Why didn't the Minister choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u115	That's not settled at the moment either. That assessment of that authorisation is not currently regulated by law. That's exactly what you can leave with that competent authority. It's a choice of how it wants to implement that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u116	At least in the case of the guarantee, a number of crucial standards, which have to do with this method of assessment, are now legally regulated. Especially when it comes to air quality standards and so on, this kind of crucial phrase is used, 'that one has to take into account' or what are these terms again? That kind of crucial terms, in which it becomes clear whether it is mandatory or that all you have to do is take it into account, are regulated at law level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u117	Mrs. Vos is talking about two things. One is the standards, the other is the licensing review. This review of permits is not now regulated at law level. The standards are regulated for some subjects at law level, for some subjects at AMvB level and for some subjects under ministerial regulation. We choose to do so in AMvBs for the sake of clarity. It has the same legal force as the law. The awareness, the power of law and the heaviness are thus the same for an AMvB. The discussion of whether water is not so important that it should not be regulated by law, we also had in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u118	I would also like to jump into that water, but I would like to come back to that previous point. As the Minister now points out, it is always more convenient to move towards an AMvB, because that is faster. My group's concern, which I believe is also shared more widely, is that there are standards that we consider so important that we want them to be laid down in legislation. Then we have the whole run-up route, including an opinion from the Council of State in advance, to chew on it properly. I understand this minister likes to move. That makes sense if you're Minister of I and M. But I wanted to go into it a little bit more than just the argument of speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u119	I wanted to do the same with the water, so let me take that as an example. I think it is well known to many that water is the favourite part of my portfolio. The importance of water and the setting of standards is, of course, also essential for me. It is very important to have recorded in our country in a very good way, even for the long future, how you organise the standards around your water safety. Again, I'm trying to indicate that the way you protect is the same, but the procedure is indeed shorter. Then you can say that water is so important that you want the long procedure. Then the following says to me: isn't the environment just as important? In fact, we have already included it in all kinds of European regulations. Mrs Bikker says: if we haven't arranged water properly, we can't go on living. But another will say that about the environment and another on another subject. If you record some things at law level, because you say they are more important than others, you will have a discussion whether you think so or not. We may agree that water is the most important thing, but two other people come up with a different subject. I deliberately choose to do it in the AMvBs so that all interests can be balanced equally. It's a careful procedure. He may indeed be a bit shorter, but we have just organized the veil at the Lower House and the Upper Chamber, so that you are really involved and can really talk about it. The House of Representatives can also amend it, so that right is also in it. So such a standard will not be dealt with lightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u120	It is good to hear that the standard is not being handled lightly. At the same time, it remains difficult for me for the Minister to say: because I want to treat everything equally, it has to be done in the AMvB. There is therefore the argument of speed and flexibility. There are basic standards on which to say to citizens: we give this clarity in the law. You can discuss that with each other, I agree. You can't absolute that to water. It is not a question of numbers, but of principles and principles. I'm afraid we won't agree on it. I would like to say that the Minister has not convinced me in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u121	I agree with the comments made by Mrs Vos and Mrs Bikker: important standards belong in the law. The Minister considers the awareness of citizens and businesses to be very important. That is why the pooling at one level is so important. I get that on my own. Isn't that the point that the Minister quite rightly gave up so highly on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u122	The Lean of the Environment is more of a data point where you can get background data, but you don't see which rules you have to comply with. It's in the AMvBs. To take Mr Van Dijk, as well as Mrs Vos and Mrs Bikker, even further into the discussion, I would say that it is not just the speed I choose for the AMvBs. It is also about clarity and, as I said earlier, European implementation. This also applies, for example, to water. I myself am one of the initiators of the water directives at European level, so that we do not pass on our land as the lowest point in Europe. That is why it is important for me to be able to do these things right. I say to your Chamber: in the end, a law of introduction will come to an end. This applies to this subject, but also to many other issues, whether it concerns legal protection or other matters. I am convinced that we will be setting out a good story with the AMvBs, which will clarify how the level of protection is regulated, how the coherence is and how your Chamber can safely say yes to it. If that calm heart is not there then, there is always the introduction law. That is what I said in the House of Representatives. If, after the AMvBs, you still feel that it is not properly arranged, there is always a possibility to give certain matters a place in the law under the introduction law. I hope not, of course. I hope to be able to convince you during this process, but for those who are still thinking about what they actually think, there is therefore a burden resort with the introduction law. We talked about the time savings. We also talked about the forehang and the afterhang. Mrs Vos asked if the new AMvBs could be better understood for an average entrepreneur than the activity decision. I think she quoted the bakery and bakery decision. The structure for the new Decision activities in the living environment, one of the AMvB's, contains a direction indicator, so as an entrepreneur you don't have to go through the whole decision to look for rules. It is therefore immediately clear to the baker which rules apply. The rules applicable to him are also digitally accessible to him, including an explanation. The findability of the rules will greatly improve compared to the Activity Decision. This ultimately benefits citizens and businesses. Now that baker has to look in several AMvBs. We've got 60 of them to which rules he'll have to follow. In any case, I know that the baker's representative, VNO-NCW, is very positive about this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u123	SMEs - the Netherlands is positive, the Minister is right to do so. I came up with this example because I heard this from a lawyer who deals with environmental law. He says that he is very concerned about this point, because the new AMvBs are extremely abstract and extensive. You really have to be a super specialist to find a way around that at all. That is precisely where there are very great concerns: can an ordinary person or an ordinary small entrepreneur, be somewhat wise of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u124	You can see me smiling a little now. I always say that everyone is very happy with the Environment Act, except the consulting firms, which have done all the research so far, and the environmental law lawyers, who so far only knew the way in the mess of rules of the game. The essence of what we are trying to do is to create clarity. The AMvBs are still in the making. It will initially be addressed and a consultation round will be held again. It will be possible to improve some things, so I will not completely destroy his input. I think, on the contrary, that it is going to be much clearer than the current system. We will not be thanked by everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u125	I understand from this lawyer that he would be very happy if that baker could do a lot of himself. You say it will be absolutely clear to everyone. The stories I hear about the AMvB's are rather disturbing at this point, in the sense that they are very difficult and almost unfathomable. We are going to see them later, but the Minister is now saying: they are just going to be good, clear and accessible AMvBs for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u126	As I just told you, there's a pointer, so you don't have to go through everything. This is digitally unlocked, including an explanation. Of course, it doesn't do me any good to make opaque AMvBs. The essence of this operation is to make it easier for people to know what they like. A yes or a no, because you also need to know quickly that you don't like something. That often takes a very long time. You may pull my jacket again in due course if you do not think it is clearly organised enough, but I think it will always be better than the 26 laws, the 60 AMvBs and the 100 ministerial regulations that we now know in the various areas. Mrs Stienen also asked whether the implementing rules will not lead to an impenetrable forest of rules again. The implementing rules are subject to the same improvements and principles of the system review, as well as the same core instruments and concepts. We are going to harmonise, integrate and clean up. We will also continue the line of the legislative proposal in implementing legislation. The consultation of the draft AMvBs is on 1 July. Isn't it weird that these AMvBs are being hung? That was a question from the SP. I would like to repeat why both the consultation and the veil at the House of Representatives are taking place on 1 July. We have said that it is a good preparation that you can have a broad public debate at an early stage. This can be done both through direct participation and public input as well as through discussion in Parliament. The Lower House has already asked several times to get an insight into the AMvB's. In this way, for example, hearings can already be organised. The Chamber will have more time than the consultation phase takes. It may involve the outcome of the consultation in its final decision-making. In any case, it was important for the House of Representatives that she had enough time. She explicitly asked for a quick insight. The advantage is that hearings can already be organised and preparations can be made. I have promised that, after the consultation has been completed and we have processed the results, the Chamber will receive them from us. It is not, therefore, the case that the Chamber will only deal with the original proposal, but with the totality of information. It is above all a gesture to give the Chamber longer time. Is there sufficient time for the treatment of large AMvBs? I think I just talked about that. Some are long and some are short. Can the AMvBs still be adapted to the Supplementary Act and the Implementation Act? That was a question from Mrs Teunissen. Yeah, you can. The adoption decision and the supplementary decisions still allow for adjustments to be made to the AMvBs. It will then be possible to ensure that they are up-to-date and coordinated upon entry into force. For the additions, the same procedure is followed as for the AMvBs. Parliament's involvement is thus guaranteed. As far as I'm concerned, that's it for the subject of law versus AMvB. Let me now turn to digitization. Many questions have been asked about digitisation and many concerns have been expressed. Is the government really good at these kinds of trajectories now? What's it gonna cost and how am I gonna organize it? The most important thing for us is that you can see with one click on the map what can and may be done at a location. You need a digital system that works under the Environment Act. That is what we are now working on with fellow governments. I'm not gonna say it's simple and the government can handle it easily. It will be a very complex task. From the introduction of the Wabo and its digitisation, we have learned that if you introduce a law while the digital system behind it is not yet well organised, it is very complex and creates an undesirable situation. In any case, we want to ensure that what we have now can be translated one-on-one, so that the current activities will soon be made available under the Environmental Act. Of course, we also have much more ambitions. As far as these ambitions are concerned, we have to agree on "go/no go" moments each time, together with the other governments. It is then a question of: can we handle it already, have we financially arranged it, is it wise to do it now or do we need a little more time? You have to do such a journey very carefully. We also have a relapse variant in case we do not come out with the various governments, a kind of minimum legal requirement to make the Environment Act work. It wouldn't be my preference, but it's a variant you can fall back on if you don't come out with the other governments. The talks with the other governments are now underway. We are not done with this now, but I hope that we will not take too long, because we also need time to do the preparatory work properly. The most important thing is that we also have a clear picture of the savings made by the various organisations. How much less time and money are spent on research costs and what does it ultimately mean for governments to work with them? I can tell you a lot more about it, but I see Mr Flierman standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u127	I am a little shocked by the Minister's comment on the relapse option. I'm aware that there is. Scenario 1 is called in the jargon, I believe. I understand that the current level of service should be maintained. I thought that was a minimum requirement for the introduction of the law. If we were to go back to a lower level, it would really be a question for me whether the moment of the law being introduced is already there. The Minister does say 'I do not find the minimum variant attractive', but I would actually like to hear 'I do not think he is acceptable'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u128	Through the President, I say, over the back of Mr Flierman to the people in the public gallery above that: we will, of course, have to come out with IPO, VNG and the Union of Water Boards. We have to do this together. There's a reason you put in a law amendment like that. You do that because you think that other governments benefit from it. We have mapped that out and also shown the financial side. I think it is very important that we introduce not only this legislative change, but also the digital system that supports it. As far as I'm concerned, that should preferably be as advanced as possible, because you can do very nice things with it. At the same time, I also think that the government should say: if there is no support and if the government has to pull it alone, we will do so, but then we will choose the variant that matters to ourselves. Honestly, I do not expect us to come to that conclusion, but I have to say in this Chamber that there is a relapse option if we do not get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u129	In the first period, I indicated the minimum for our group to vote in favour of the introduction law. When I hear the Minister say 'I have to get out with the other governments', I am all the more curious about her response to my question about powers to make a number of decisions on this issue. It is precisely in order for the system to work properly in the near future that, in my view, you should be able to say at a number of points in relation to this underlying infrastructure: that is what we are doing and that is how we are doing it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u130	Therefore, the minimum variant is also the variant in which the Empire can decide on its own. We can do that, and we can do that in the short term. I believe that a well-functioning digital system is a prerequisite for the entry into force of the law. You said that you want to be able to see in due course that it works well before you can pass the adoption law. It seems logical to me that at such a moment you should look at what exactly is there and whether or not that is good enough. On the other hand, I mention the minimal variant consciously, because I keep saying that at least we are going to make sure that we can deliver what we have now. That's what happens when we get together. Otherwise there will be something extra and more ambitions. That's what I can do with drivers of other domes. If we don't figure it out, I do have the minimum variant. We can work with that, but she is less desirable and I do not know whether the Upper House and also the Lower House will find it sufficient. Nor do I know whether Mr Flierman is asking me to force municipalities, provinces or the Union of Water Councils to contribute to this. If he asks, I will have a very different conversation, while I am here arguing for the autonomy and independence of the various levels of government. I want us to get out of this together, and there won't be a coercive variant of the board agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u131	Of course, it would be preferable for us to work things out, but my experience with these projects is that you also have to have someone who makes a knot every once in a while. The Minister says that she does so for herself at a minimum level, but I wonder if that is acceptable. Perhaps the Minister, precisely in order for the system to work properly as such, will need some firm authority here and there to carry on in order to realise the infrastructure. I hope it's not necessary, but as far as we're concerned, she has the space to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u132	Such possibilities always exist. Let's start with the good conversation first. So far, so good. Every once in a while, it still moves a little bit. I hope that we will get there quickly and, if not, we will indeed have relapse options with which we can get to work quickly. I understand that at least we get backup from the CDA in the First Chamber if we want to take further steps. Mr Flierman or his successor can always determine whether the ICT system is far enough away at the time of its introduction. How's it gonna look? There are all information houses and different systems. We don't want to make another whole new system and get it all out, because it takes a very long time. We're trying to create some kind of counter, behind which are the other information houses, and improve the information that's in the information houses. To achieve that ambition, we need chain partners. It is very important that this is done in the best way possible. I indicated that it was a growth model, which goes from the current minimum situation to greater ambitions through phased decision-making with go/no-go decisions. Intergovernmentally, we have set ourselves the goal of offering the system in 2018. It concerns the realisation of the central user facility, the underlying technical infrastructure, filling with data and application of standards. If we choose this commitment together, I trust that we can achieve 2018, at least for turnover one-on-one, and that we can complement the ambitions in subsequent years. We have looked closely at the Elias Committee to find out what we should or should not do. We will always be advised on this. We will also ensure that we have good people on it, because it is quite complex. The Environment Act is already difficult for many to understand because of its complexity. Translating her into 1-0-1-0, the language spoken by the people who ultimately have to make sure that things are digitized, is also very complex. So we're on top of it to do it as well as we can. The digital system will not only show its added value if the technology is good, but also, and above all, as soon as users make their contribution. The PvdA asked how these users are going to do that. Municipalities will have to supply planning data as source holder. Such data must comply with quality requirements. At the time of entry into force, not all data on the physical environment will be digitally accessible, but the standards will apply from then on. Therefore, the validated data is provided from the outset via the digital system. To ensure that useful standards are developed, I have set up a working group, as stated in the administrative agreement. This creates support for standards and encourages the development of standards. It's still quite a display of generic standards, but it seems to me that thanks to the deployment of the inter-administrative implementation programme, we'll succeed. I would just like to say to Mr Flierman that the administrative agreement lays down that the minister is responsible for the system. This responsibility is therefore in place, just as it is enshrined in the introduction laws and regulations. It also sets out powers in relation to the system, responsibilities and quality assurance. We had a little discussion about the level at which it will take place. More important than the guarantee of formal responsibility, I consider the responsibility shown by all parties in the development and implementation of the digital system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u133	This communication falls into the category "something more reassuring." I get the impression that the Minister, as a system manager, finally sets these standards, for example. I have mentioned in my input "study efficiency," but of the concepts of scaffolding, building or business building, every municipality can use its own definition if you do not regulate anything. Since municipalities have to introduce information into the system as source owners, it is essential that someone says at some point: this is the definition of a scaffolding; everyone has to abide by it. It's my job to make sure that's settled, otherwise it's gonna be a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u134	I intend to set the standards in the introduction scheme, which means that they will be applied in a binding, binding manner. This is a continuation of the current approach to spatial planning. It also sets the standards by regulation. In order to ensure acceptance, I will, of course, develop this through the inter-administrative implementation programme. The working group has already developed semantic standards. Mr Flierman referred to this. If necessary, as chairman of that working group, I will make a decision. Are we, as a government, able to run such a project ourselves? Can we hire third parties for ICT and the like? Fortunately, there is a lot of knowledge and expertise available, but it is also complex. As I said before, these things should not be looked at lightly. Drivers are usually more interested in the law than in its implementation, but I must say that I see the digital system as a more complex task than creating the Environment Act. That was already quite a complex task, so I certainly see it as my child, as far as I'm concerned. I hope that my successor will see that as well, not as a matter of implementation, but also as his or her administrative responsibility. I'll report to the Chamber on progress every year. I told you, I'm using the lessons of the Elias Commission. We will monitor this through audits, gateway reviews, BIT tests and monitoring. I think I have answered most of the questions on this subject. I come to the relationship between the governing bodies. I must say that this is relatively brief. However, this subject was frequently discussed during the creation of the Environment Act. What is the relationship between the Empire, the Province and the Municipality? That's always an interesting issue. There are a number of issues in this context that I can address, such as the relationship between central and subsidiarity. Let me start with that last one. The SGP asks me how to better anchor the subsidiarity principle in the legislative proposal. I believe that the principle of subsidiarity, which is based on the reluctance of the higher authorities, is well anchored in the legislative proposal. The criteria of efficiency and effectiveness are set out in Article 2.3, which aims to steer more than the Wro does on an explicit and visible balance by the board. The judge can check this out if there's any lawsuits left. Of course, it is not intended that the judge sits on the driver's seat, but he can check whether that instruction rule is properly justified by the application of the criteria. The proposed criteria therefore give the judge clearer guidance. Therefore, and because of the intention of restraint expressed in the administrative agreement, I expect provinces and the Empire to be cautious. Should the principle of subsidiarity also apply to the environment and programmes? This was a question from Mrs Jorritsma, among others. The objectives and policy documents can sometimes serve as a starting point for the application of national powers and provincial powers. However, we do not choose to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the visions and programmes, because an environment vision or a programme does not contain a standard and therefore does not restrict the tasks or powers of other authorities. It may also have an undesirable effect. Interests in the field of physical living environment are often complementary or concern shared interests. Think of water safety, the protection of nature, subjects such as population growth or - shrinkage, or office policy. As a result, it is often very effective and effective to formulate policies at different levels of administration. If the subsidiarity principle were to apply to visions and programmes, it would no longer be possible to do so. For this reason, I do not want to include in the legislative proposal an obligation to apply the principle of subsidiarity to an environmental vision or a programme. However, the subsidiarity principle should be applied in the application of the standard-setting powers, such as rules of instruction. It does apply to that. This means that in the question of what instruments are being used to implement the vision, the principle of subsidiarity already plays an indirect role. This sufficiently ensures the application of this principle in policy-making. It has been asked whether I can explain why I believe that the administrative judge will now be examining aspects of efficiency and effectiveness. This question also came from Mrs Jorritsma. In fact, I have already answered them: because those criteria give greater clarity in Article 2.3 and therefore the judge can also check them more easily and get clearer handle on them. That's why this is going to happen now. It has been asked whether a municipality can object to opinions from other public authorities. Among other things, the CDA, through Mr Flierman, asked for this. That is not possible, because it is an opinion and not a decision within the meaning of the General Administrative Law, because it is not aimed at legal effect. It is not necessary, because the advice is only important for municipalities. Deviation must therefore be motivated only. Suppose that the municipality as competent authority for the conversion of a non-archaeological national monument receives the advice of the minister of OCW to grant the environmental permit for the modification of the national monument only with additional requirements. In this case, the municipality will as a general rule follow this opinion and include the rules in the permit in accordance with other rules. Mrs Meijer asks whether the decentralisation has not gone through. Should the national authorities not continue to set proper frameworks? Are the governments actually ready for their role? In fact, all governments traditionally have a role to play in the physical environment. The system review shall not make any essential changes to that division of tasks and powers. The national authorities continue to set frameworks for many topics. For example, we now have thirteen national interests: energy supply, cultural heritage, water security and so on. We have established these interests at national level. Provinces have provincial interests and the municipalities of course also have their own tasks and powers. These frameworks are now getting together more clearly. Wherever possible, the public authorities will also be given greater discretion. Sometimes things change. For example, we have transferred a number of national landscapes to the provinces. Some have remained national, others have become provincial. It may also be that provinces will fill in more, for example in the retail discussion. There is therefore a change in powers from time to time, but it is not the case that there is decentralisation under this law. I would actually like to call it more "deregulation." The law provides instruments to make good use of the various legal tasks, for example the territorial coordination of municipalities and water authorities. Within the domes we are working on the right administrative culture to shape the distinction in the tasks well with each other. Mr Verheijen asked for "decentral, unless." How far does that principle go? Are decentralised municipalities also affected by exceedances on which they can exercise no or only limited influence? How does this relate to intergovernmental coordination and cooperation? Does that lead to additional synergy between the levels of government? The principle of "decentral, unless" is indeed central. The need for an administrative culture based on coordination and cooperation is also central. This is reflected in Articles 2.2 and 2.3. However, this does not mean that the Empire and provinces can shift their responsibilities to municipalities, for example by calling on municipalities to exceed environmental values on which they cannot exercise influence. On the contrary, the principle of subsidiarity means that it is always necessary to consider who can best take on which level and choice of administration. The same applies to environmental values. The Empire is the first step when it comes to environmental values for the national waters. The municipalities are for air quality, because we expect that there will be local overruns in a few years' time at the most. If necessary, the government which is in the process of taking action will involve other public authorities in the programme. Governments are jointly responsible for meeting environmental values. The starting point of 'decentral, unless' and the administrative culture based on coordination and cooperation are therefore not opposites, as far as I am concerned. On the contrary, the legislative proposal offers a nice set of instruments that will put the various levels of government in place in cooperation and coordination where necessary. This will enable them to formulate joint policies in joint programmes. I therefore believe that the synergy between central and decentralised governance can be strengthened. Mrs Vos asks why the Empire does not have an ultimum remedium, in the form of a designation power, for example in the case that municipalities take up too much administrative space for coastal building. With the Law revitalisation generic supervision, a system change in inter-administrative supervision (IBT) has recently taken place. Supervisory instruments are limited to the generic instruments suspension and destruction and entry into force of the Municipal Law and the Province Act. Specific or additional IBT instruments may still be provided only in special cases. In particular, where an exception is justified for a province, the law provides for a reactive intervention power. For the Empire that is not necessary; that can use a generic IBT-instrumentarium, destruction by the Crown. It only does that if it is judged that something is contrary to national interests. In the event of a development contrary to the national interest, e.g. in the construction of the coastal foundation, the Crown can destroy the municipal decision. A reactive intervention or designation power is therefore not necessary for the Empire on that point. Mrs Jorritsma asked me about the right of appeal for local authorities. Will the limitation of the right of appeal of local authorities come back? An appeal to the Administrative Court is governed by the General Administrative Law Act. The Crisis and Recovery Act currently excludes the possibility for local authorities to appeal against an application plan or the State's decision on the route. The Environment Act does not contain any special arrangements in this respect. The Implementation Act will repeal the Crisis and Recovery Act and amend the General Administrative Law Act. In this context, I will decide whether objections and appeals by co-governments will be abolished. The Court can then assess the legal protection in total. So much for the comments on the relationship between the Empire, the provinces and the municipalities. As far as I am concerned, each layer takes its own responsibility. When a provincial or national interest is defined, you can ensure that one operates within your provincial or national interest. "Overruling" is perhaps the wrong word... The rest of the time the division of responsibility is just clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u135	I do not know if the Minister will come back to it, but I had also asked how sustainable the governance agreement is in these intergovernmental relations. How does the Minister see that in the light of elections of Lower House, Municipal Councils, States and so on? Perhaps the Minister will come to that, but otherwise I would like to hear something about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u136	I do not know if this will be reflected in the reply later, but I can say something about it right away. In this case, the governance agreement has been concluded for a long time, but an administrative agreement is always valid until governments find that the world is different. You can try to shut that down, but eventually every board layer in the end will say it's up to him. How many times have we tried to lift or strengthen provinces, lift or strengthen waterboards, give municipalities more autonomy and so on? Those changes are there. I note that, so far, we have come to these joint agreements in very good consultation with the domes. I can only imagine that this will be continued in the future. I will strive for that, and I expect my successors to do the same. When I'm gone, you might be there in time to keep an eye on that. Of course, I cannot promise that nothing will change, but perhaps that was not the question either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u137	I am not asking for the promise that nothing will ever change, but if you make agreements with each other now and if I am right, the Minister is also involved in this, you want any changes to take place again in consultation and after mutual agreement. I would find it a very regrettable development if one of the parties were to say that we did indeed agree to this in 2015, but it is now 2017 and we are not doing it that way anymore. In such a case, perhaps the Minister or her successor should say: we are not married, friends; we are keeping to the agreements we have made!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u138	I agree. For example, you saw such a discussion around the coastal foundation. The House of Representatives said that there should be no more space, while all examples of building the coastal foundation that were given were not possible at all in the coastal foundation. It was about the underlying area, in the dunes and in the coastal municipalities, where building is simply allowed within their own powers. I can't and I don't want to change that. All we can do is sit down with the municipalities and the provinces and discuss whether we want it that way, but you cannot intervene as a Empire. The only thing I can do on behalf of the Empire is the coastal foundation itself. So that relationship is always clear. If anyone thinks there should be something else in the administrative relationship in this case it was in the House of Representatives, but it could also be another party you should keep your back straight and point out the agreed powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u139	I have a question about the provinces and municipalities in the field of nature conservation. Provinces are now responsible for nature policy. Doesn't it make sense to give them at least the right to consent if a municipality wants to develop a particular activity that may have a significant impact on nature? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u140	Since provinces are responsible for nature policy, they will also have to record what they want and what their development is. If they define this as a provincial interest and if it is actually a provincial interest, a municipality will have to comply with it. This will not apply to any subject that affects nature at all, because everything around us is nature, but I can imagine that the province will test this in case of major interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u141	So the province in the environmental regulation will set environmental values for nature which the municipalities have to abide by?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u142	If a licensed activity has an effect on nature, you also need a permit for a nature activity. Think of building in a nature reserve; that is both a building activity and a nature activity. The Nature Protection Act will be fully incorporated into the Environment Act. In the Nature Supplementary Act, the competent authority for this application will be definitively regulated. If the municipality is competent for the entire permit application, the province has the right to consent to the nature activity. If the province does not agree to this activity, the permit must be refused.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u143	I have not yet heard the Minister comment on the aspect of the project decision and the reduction of planning capacity. Can she still do that? I think that's part of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u144	This may also come to the attention of the other questions, but in principle you want municipalities to look at how they can reduce planning capacity. As a province in your provincial plan, you can also indicate what you think and what areas you want to realize, for example, offices, retail or something like that. A project decision was a very heavy instrument, with which you finally said not only that there should be less capacity, but also how. With the Environment Act, we aim to ensure that the province can determine that there should be less, but that it should leave it to the municipalities because it is their responsibility and authority to come up with new or different plans. That's the difference between one and the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u145	I understand that and I support that, but I now miss the opportunity to reduce the planning capacity in the extreme. I will give you an example from the province of Utrecht, where I myself live. There's a million square feet of office space empty, while there's another 3 million planned. If we leave everything to municipalities by mutual agreement, it will be a Polish country day. I asked the Minister whether, with a view to subsidiarity, we could give the province a little bit more teeth in that area, not for each time, but for the only exception that would not otherwise be forthcoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u146	I know the plan of the province of Utrecht. I know how she does this. I think it's a good thing she took the lead to deal with that void. We expect that from other provinces as well. The provinces have been given more powers in the field of spatial planning, already with the SVIR. We expect them to take that space, too. The difference between the plan that Utrecht has submitted and what we want to achieve is that the province of Utrecht has not only said that planning capacity must be removed, but also how it should be done. She just cut it out. We think you should say that there should be less planning capacity, but that you should leave it to the municipalities how they do it. That is why it has now been decorated in a different way than it has been so far, with a different instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u147	This is a repeat. I appreciate that, because it's perfectly clear to me now, but what if the municipalities don't come out? Then we will keep this problem and the law will no longer solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u148	In my opinion, the Environment Act offers sufficient opportunities to allow the disposal of offices. The Province may take an instructional decision requiring municipalities to remove the designated planning capacity from the environmental plan in a number of designated locations. The municipality of Utrecht now uses the integration plan as an instrument, but the successor of this instrument in the Environment Act, the project decision, we do not consider suitable for that purpose. This is meant for the realisation of projects. Rich and province then decide for themselves what a destination looks like. With that project decision, Rijk or province directly adapt a municipality's environmental plan, but you don't want them to do it that way. It's only determined that something isn't meant to be. What is allowed at these locations is up to the municipalities themselves. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it goes too far if the province adjusts the environmental plan immediately and sets out a new destination, but it can give an instructional decision which stipulates that capacity must be removed. That's what it's all about in the end. Moreover, I really believe that more opportunities would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, which is the basis of the law. I'm joining the National Environment Vision now. I can answer the questions briefly. I have been asked what national interests should be involved and how we are going to proceed gradually. We will draw up a comprehensive vision of the policy for the physical environment. National interests get a place in that National Environment vision. As an intermediate step to the National Environment Vision, the National Environment Agenda is currently being drawn up. I can go into the substance of this endlessly by telling you all the subjects that need to be included, but I do not think that this is the time to do so; I will look at Mrs Meijer, who asked the question through the President. I think it's important to lay down broad ambitions about where you want it to go with your country. What is the relationship between the National Environment Vision and the Structure Vision Underground? There will be a coherent strategic vision that will eventually replace sectoral visions and policy plans. The Structure Vision Substrate is more ready than the National Environment Vision and therefore has its own workings first. As soon as the National Environment Vision enters into force, strategic decisions from the Structure Vision Underground will also be included in the environmental vision. There are also cross-border effects. Among other things, D66 asked how the government deals with cross-border effects in drawing up the environmental vision. How do you prevent cross-border problems from being dismissed by the municipality and the Empire? An environmental vision is about the physical habitat of the entire territory: air, CO and water. It is not therefore limited to the national, provincial or municipal boundaries. So you have to pay attention to that. You can't close your eyes to it. The starting point of the legislative proposal is cooperation, policy coordination and implementation between administrative bodies, and working together to find a solution. This is also laid down in Article 2.2 of the legislative proposal. Cross-border effects are also on the agenda of the National Environment Vision. Within the Netherlands, of course, we can arrange this. The environmental vision and the Environment Act will not yet cover the countries around us. I do know that there is a great deal of interest in the Environment Act in Europe. Maybe we'll have to do it again. Citizen participation around the environment vision has already been discussed under an earlier heading. I come to the quality and environmental values. Mr Verheijen asked whether principles such as the polluter pay, the source approach or the standstill principle have been properly incorporated, and whether they are part of the rules of state instruction. Article 3.3 of the legislative proposal contains an instructional rule on principles. It has really been included in the Chamber as a result of the debate. The environmental vision takes account of four European environmental principles. This applies not only to the National Environment Vision, but also to the provincial and municipal environmental vision. Thus, along the policy path, these principles are actually reflected in the regulation of different levels of government. Direct implementation of the general principles in concrete decisions is not desirable, as this entails the risk of legalisation and reduction of decentralised balancing. A governing body often decides on the basis of rules of instruction and predefined policy. Therefore, if you have to check against those fairly general principles, this could lead to legal uncertainty and increase the burden of justification. It could provoke legal proceedings. With the chosen line in the legislative proposal, these principles retain their function as a guideline for government transactions, without risk of stagnation. Mrs Teunissen asked whether the environmental principles should not be reviewed by the courts. She wonders whether this does not mean that we have less protection. Judges sometimes use environmental principles in their judgements. That is also the case with the Environment Act. Just like now, however, they do not have to test it. As administrative bodies and judges, it is necessary to examine fairly general principles, which leads to legal uncertainty and to an increase in the burden of justification, as I said earlier. That could provoke legal proceedings. The legislative proposal now stipulates that the principles must be taken into account in the environmental vision. They will have a central role at the beginning of policy making. This also applies to national policies and not only to the implementation of European regulations. Therefore, they are not carried out as a mandatory review. They are given the function of a guideline for government transactions, without risk of stagnation. Are the values of nature and the environment sufficiently protected? That was also a question from Mrs Teunissen. The principle of the Environmental Law is an equivalent level of protection. Protection of the environment is ensured in many ways within the new system. For the quality of air and water, environmental values are established. Other environmental aspects for which we cannot do so are included in the instructions for the Quality of Living Environment Decision. The rules for the protection of nature are continued under the Environmental Act by means of a supplementary law and a supplementary act. Mrs Stienen asked whether we would not be at risk of unintentional accumulation if we did not set minimum values for water, air and other aspects. The environmental values required by the legislative proposal are precisely to control this accumulation. That's what we're going to do for, among other things, water and air. For other aspects, this is not so easy. There are many different types of sound or smell for which you cannot determine environmental values. We will include in the Decision quality living environment instructional rules that also look at dealing with cumulative effects of smell and sound. So: with instructional rules but not with environmental values, because smell and sound are not good in values. Mrs Vos asks whether I can guarantee that the cumulative nuisance will also be assessed in the event of odour pollution from livestock farms, and how I will arrange it. Smell nuisance is also really an aspect that needs to be assessed locally. The municipality has to arrange that in the environmental plan. The Empire will require the municipality, by means of instructional rules, to lay down rules to limit odour nuisance when assigning functions to locations. The accumulation of odour nuisance is also included. I intend to include those instructional rules in the Quality of Living Environment Decision. Eventually, of course, it should just end up in those local environmental plans. Is the basic quality guaranteed for aspects such as smell, as no mandatory environmental values apply? That was a question from GroenLinks. I think this question corresponds to D66's. If no environmental value has been established for a subject, this does not mean that activities can burden the living environment indefinitely. For example, unacceptable effects can be regulated by regulating activities. The law explicitly states that permits and general state rules for environmental pollution activities must prevent significant pollution. Like I said, some things aren't very good in environmental values, but they are in instructional rules. Monitoring is then carried out by the municipality in the context of monitoring rules on activities. It was asked whether the maximum speed of 130 km/h would have adverse effects on air quality. Both now and under the Environmental Act, we must comply with the European Air Quality Directive. So the norming doesn't change anything. The decision to allow 130 km/h is a traffic decision. So this is not covered by the Environmental Act, but by the Road Traffic Act 1994, which we do not change. In doing so, we must always take account of environmental problems and impacts, and we must remain within the environmental standards as we know them. There is no change in this respect through this legislation. Can the Empire or the Province enforce the impact of environmental values by municipalities? Environmental values are an important reference framework for the use of public authorities' instruments and powers. That was a question from Mr Flierman. The Empire or the Province may include instructional rules in the AMvB or regulation. For example, they can indicate how the environmental values set by the Empire or the Province should be involved in the exercise of tasks or powers. This is stated in Article 2.24 (1) of the bill. Do the Empire and the provinces also accept higher or stricter environmental values? Should they be involved in achieving this? Governments have a joint responsibility for the quality of the environment. Where this is the case, Rijk and Province will also involve stricter local environmental values in the exercise of their tasks and powers. However, local environmental values work for the municipal administration. So the city council determines them. If this is necessary for the performance of their task, Rijk and Province can ignore local rules, including the strict environmental values. Mr Van Dijk asked how the provinces take responsibility for the implementation of environmental values they have established, and whether they should participate in them. If it is likely that an environmental value is not met or will not be met, it is mandatory that a programme be set up with measures to be taken to comply with those environmental values. If there is an excess that can be traced back to matters for which the Empire is responsible, the Empire must also take action and contribute to the implementation of the programme. The same applies to the province if, for example, it is responsible for something that plays in the municipality. Mrs Meijer asked: what level of government can set a basic level of protection or a minimum value for environmental quality for what aspect? For a number of cases mentioned in the bill, county and state must establish an environmental value. The line of the bill is otherwise that the municipalities are the first designated level of government to regulate the quality of the environment. Doesn't the Empire arrange anything else? Yeah, of course I do. I'm working on the Decision Quality Environment, one of the four AMvBs. We will then also include quality standards for many aspects, particularly those relating to the environment. That decision therefore lays down basic protection rules, minimum standards for air quality, water quality, soil quality, external safety, noise, smell and so on. For quality aspects for which the said AMvB does not set basic standards, there is scope for local authorities to set their own minimum environmental quality values. Do I want to arrange for national environmental values to be set for noise, smell and CO, as a result of the recent discussion in the Chamber, and do I intend to oblige provinces to set environmental values for landscapes? These are two questions from Mrs Vos van GroenLinks. Right now, I'm not able to establish national environmental values for sound and smell. I've just said, there's too much diversity. Then it is not a good idea to lay down in the law that we should do so. I'm going to include rules that provide basic protection against noise and odour pollution. As regards the environmental values for CO, the Chamber has recently been informed about the Paris climate agreement and the follow-up steps taken. An interdepartmental policy study on the cost-effectiveness of CO reduction measures is currently being finalised. In April of this year, the energy dialogue that will contribute to the policy agenda on the road to an energy-sustainable Netherlands will start in 2050. It will be published in the autumn of 2016. If we have the results of these steps, we can also consider how useful it is to look at the possibility of an environmental value for CO in relation to all measures. So that's what's gonna happen in the long run. First, the substantive discussion must be conducted on the possibilities, usefulness and necessity and the way in which this can be done. If a positive decision is taken by the Second and First Chambers, it can always be incorporated in the future. I am not enthusiastic about the idea of obliging provinces to set environmental values for landscape, regardless of whether you can define at law level which landscapes should be covered and how that should be filled in. We believe that the bill gives excellent powers to provinces to adequately protect important provincial landscapes. An obligation to do so does not, in my view, lead to an extra that we need at the moment. Mrs Stienen asks who the burden of proof lies with when an environmental permit is refused because of the risk of health damage and to whom the burden of proof lies in an appeal against the granting of such a permit. If the competent authority makes such a decision because of the risk of health damage, for example in case of an acute risk of infection of Q fever, it will have to be well substantiated. The burden of proof will then lie with the competent authority. If a citizen considers that an authorisation has been wrongly granted because there is a risk of health damage, he will have to justify that in his statement of objection with arguments. I come to the subject of environmental plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u149	How much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u150	A lot of questions have been asked. I'm trying to do it faster and faster, as you should. I find it hard to estimate how much longer this is going to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u151	About 9:15? Is that gonna work, like, half an hour?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u152	I'm gonna do my best, but I'm gonna talk real quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u153	Mrs. Fox, you want to interrupt. I'll talk to you soon, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u154	I don't know if that'll help. I still have a question about these environmental values. Now the law states that it is only regulated for air, water and the safety of quays. The province has to arrange it for water systems. Furthermore, nothing has been mentioned in the law at the moment that really needs to be regulated. If fewer standards are created later because they simply are not set at local level, how can you guarantee an equivalent level of protection? How can the Minister ensure that there is an equivalent level of protection of citizens for all possible environmental and health risks by identifying fewer standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u155	There is now no environmental value for sound and smell. It is therefore not the case that in the future we will have to set fewer standards, which I felt in your wording, in the AMvBs than is currently regulated. We can simply translate the environmental values we already have into the AMvBs. I'm actually trying to convert those AMvBs as neutral as possible. Where we do not have them, I try to make decisions or make rules, as I have just described, at all those levels related to environmental protection, air quality and so on. It's not my intention to leave less in it than it already is. If there are ever fewer standards, or lower or higher demands, then this must really be done in the wake of a political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u156	I believe that there are now legal regulations for noise and smell. It is also possible, for example, to agree on a standard if there are a certain number of odours per square kilometre on that type of standards. What is now regulated in the law, we would like to see secured in the new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u157	The discussion I keep having with the Chamber is whether there can be environmental values for sound and smell. I've always understood I'm not daily working on all the topics of the Environmental Law..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are rules of the game, but it cannot be set in one environmental value. That is why a kind of minimum requirements and rules will soon be laid down in the decision on the quality of the environment. I can't see what one-on-one is being converted. The Chamber will be able to see that at the AMvB's. I can only express the intention. As far as possible, we are trying to achieve a neutral transposition whereby powers between the different bodies are made as clear as possible. It is not the intention now to remove rules because we want to allow relaxation; only if there are duplications, we try to harmonise or shape them in an insightful way. Let's get back to the AMvBs on that. Then the Chamber can see one-on-one how that was translated. The environmental plan is one of the six key instruments of the Environment Act. It actually regulates everything related to the physical environment for the municipalities. It contains much more than just spatial planning in the current zoning plan. It also includes environmental measures and other matters. That is a broader physical content than we know at the moment. I think that will bring better results. Mr Flierman asks whether one environmental plan in each municipality is no longer possible because it may often need to be adapted. There is now an immeasurable amount of zoning plans, sometimes even up to the level of a single plot. This fragmentation will come to an end with the environmental plan. However, the environmental plan is ideally area-oriented. Better than with a zoning plan, the exact location for each line can be determined. Each rule therefore requires the right level of scale. It is precisely the choice of a single environmental plan that optimises that this area-oriented nature can take shape, that unnecessary fragmentation can be avoided, that governments cooperate with each other with all the instruments of the law and that adjacent environmental plans will be aligned with each other. Mr Flierman asked whether it was possible to deal with this with several municipalities at the same time. This applies to all instruments; it also applies to environmental vision, to environmental regulations, to waterboard regulations. That does not require any particular legal construction. So I understand very well that Mr Flierman is asking if you could divide it all up so that you do not have to update too often on one plan. On the other hand, the importance is very great to be able to have the overview at once. You should be able to make it so simple and insightful in the way you update that it is clear to everyone very quickly what the update is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u158	If I am right, there is still a lot to be done in the implementation law on this point. I really do not argue for dozens of environmental plans per municipality, but I can imagine that a municipality like Rotterdam would be helped if it could establish a different environmental plan for the port area than for the urban area within the Ruit, to name just two terms. I would like the Minister to talk to her staff and perhaps also to the VNG who makes the weighing up again. Then we will see what the final conclusion is in the introduction law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u159	That's good. We are now practicing making environmental plans. We'll see what we're up against. So that discussion can always come back. Mr Van Hattem asked whether the wider scope of the environmental plan would lead to higher costs. It does have a wider scope than the zoning plan, as all the rules relating to the physical habitat are also grouped into the environmental plan. These can also be rules relating to smell, sound or health. This has now been fragmentedly incorporated into various schemes. By making it broader and promoting coherence and clarity, municipalities ultimately have less work and less costs than when it is organised in all the different schemes. These costs are no longer incurred in the various schemes, but in the environmental plan, which makes it more insightful for a municipality. Mr Van Hattem asked about legal certainty and the deviation from the environmental plan. In his speech, he quoted the inaugural speech of Crince Le Roy. He was wondering if we wouldn't fall back on old mistakes and if there wouldn't be too much decentralised space. Since we've been working with land use plans, the legal certainty it assumes has been relative. A zoning plan can simply be changed by a municipality whenever it so wishes. There's a procedure for that. Traditionally, there is a need for instruments to respond quickly to current spatial requirements. That's because old planning led to static rules and often meant that you couldn't change anything. There were also people who felt that it should be easier to intervene and take initiatives. Initiatives which were not foreseen in the definition of the zoning plan could therefore not be taken either. An environment plan offers more space to respond more quickly to current situations. With such a zoning plan, entire residential areas were built with Article 19 procedures, to get it done. The Environment Act wants to change that practice. With global environmental plans you can better respond to the dynamics of society and give better direction to new developments, without ever having to deviate. In the end, this flexibility will also provide better legal certainty. There is one certainty: uncertain future developments will not be covered in advance by static and detailed regulation. Exactly room for flexibility offers the possibility to respond to current situations. So we do not want to fall back on old mistakes, but we want to be able to respond to the fact that there is now a need for different approaches in our country in different places. In some places you have shrinkage, in others you have growth. You can't control all of that centrally from one provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u160	In itself, I can follow that approach in general. All I have concerns about is the legal certainty of that global zoning plan. As I understand it, we will soon be able to get an urban area function, without a detailed function being specified. What legal certainty do residents of that area still have? Do they still have the right to damages if a function changes at once within that area? It's all pretty insecure and pretty unclear. What effect is it going to have on the plan-damaging scheme, which we don't know about at all at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u161	I will come back to the other issues later on. It is precisely the overall completion of such an environmental plan that is a great social wish. I understand that on the one hand that means that you can't already see in advance what the exact destination is. On the other hand, we have learned that we cannot actually record that in advance. At the time that we established a zoning plan as we knew it with the exact details, it was once again obsolete by actuality. If there is a global environmental plan, and then there is a specific implementation, you will have to apply for it again through a permit or a project, depending on how big it is. Then you'll have the opportunity to speak up and get your legal certainty. You can also speak in front. If you think that a global destination offers so much space that you provide something that you want to oppose in advance, you can of course also refer to the environmental plan. There are more moments. You can leave a message as soon as the environmental plan is established globally. Then you can say: I would at least not find within the urban destination those and those activities desirable. Whether you get what you want is a second, but you can do it. At the moment there is a concrete plan to fill in and just put a shopping mall or something there, you can leave a message.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u162	Speaking up is clear. Pre-participants are clear. But you're stuck with the situation that you get a destination urban area, that there's a certain function next to your door in advance. Not everyone likes to have it next door. Such developments may occur. There are often a lot of discussions about that. In such a case, is there any right to damage to plans at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u163	I have to think about the period when I was alderman myself. Then we wanted to create innovation in a part of the city centre. We wanted to create a shopping area that was more follow-up. They all had houses in them. What are you doing at such a time as a city council? You're making a plan. You're gonna talk to all the neighbors and shopkeepers about what you want to do. You confirm the Favorite Law Councils Act so that you are sure that not everything is bought up by developers. And if you don't get out with residents who won't give up their property, you can even move on to expropriation. So also in the current situation it may be that in a zoning plan something is indicated as a destination, but if eventually there is a municipal plan that says that something should get a shopping destination and if that is seen as a municipal interest, then you do not have that certainty either and on that basis you can get a compensation for expropriation. That's often a little different from the plan damage discussion. It's been meticulously recorded. I will come back to the question of when it is valid. Again, also in the current variant you can as a municipality give a different destination to something. Now you do that more globally so that you don't have to change your zoning plan all the time and it's easier to operate on it. Then I come to the citizens' point of view. Like regulations, an environmental plan may contain open standards. If assessment rules are set out in concrete and objective terms, an authorisation would have to be no more than an automatic act. In this case, there is clarity for the citizen and it is preferable to work with general rules without permits. The licence is an excellent tool for weighing up the situation in a specific case. It is about greater flexibility, more discretion and more room for alternative possibilities in which an activity can be carried out in an acceptable manner. It is ultimately up to the city council to determine the extent to which open standards are being worked on. This choice will depend in particular on the characteristics of an area and the development envisaged there. Mrs Teunissen asked to what extent citizens can rely on standards set out in an environmental plan. Citizens can appeal to the court against an environmental plan. For a successful appeal to the court, their interests must be directly affected by the environmental plan. If the interests of the citizen are not affected, for example in the case of a generally formulated environmental value that binds only the administration itself, the citizen cannot appeal it to the courts. A formal request for enforcement of a standard contained in the environmental plan, as in the case of an appeal to the court, must be subject to consideration. This is generally not the case in the case of environmental values addressed only to the administration. In the event of an imminent exceedance of the environmental value, the municipality is obliged to draw up a programme to ensure that the environmental value is also achieved. The citizen can inform the municipality of this obligation and request that a programme be drawn up. You can also ask the board to change the environmental values in the environmental plan or ask them to include rules in the environmental plan to get those environmental values. Mr Flierman said that this is always subject to revisions and asked if ICT could make these revisions sufficiently transparent. The digital system will be designed in such a way as to clarify which rules apply and which design environmental plans have been put into procedure. Because you have all the rules together and you are digitally unlocking them, we think it will be clear. Mr Flierman asked whether there was a risk of a step backwards in the transition period between zoning plan and environmental plan, and whether municipalities had sufficient capacity to work on those transitional regimes. It is very important that it goes as well as possible. We will consider all the zoning plans as an environmental plan at the time of entry into force of the law. In doing so, the zoning plans will continue to function without taking a step backwards. There are therefore no multiple regimes. It also allows municipalities to combine zoning plans and other rules on the physical environment and to transform them into one integrated plan. That's how I got the questions about the environmental plan. A few questions have also been asked about the weighing room and flexibility. How do I intend to deal with the opinion of the Rli (Council for the Environment and Infrastructure) on the balancing area? The development of the AMvBs is at least as extensive a task as the drafting of the bill, I say to Mrs Jorritsma. A sound advice is therefore welcome. The Rli made a useful analysis. It suggests working with a bandwidth approach. I am now considering whether we can also apply this bandwidth approach to quantitative environmental standards, insofar as Europe offers us scope for doing so. In concrete terms, this is about sound, smell and soil. In the design of the AMvB I will indicate how I deal with it. Mr Flierman asks me, because the Rli is not comfortable with that, to increase the scope for consideration. Increasing the scope for consideration is one of the objectives of the system review. This is particularly reflected in implementing legislation. I think it is important that that consideration space actually exists. It's not so much about breaking standards, as people often think, as it is about how you come to something. There's a lot of room for consideration in that. I would like to put that implementing regulation in place before the summer. A number of topics will come later: noise of infrastructure and certain topics whose policy is still under review. But we are looking for room for manoeuvre while maintaining the level of protection. One example I can mention is a limited broadening of the Rural Housing Act. That discussion is well known: you can live in a farm in a scent circle, but if you retire, you can live in the cottage behind it and let your children move into the house, you can't live in the scent circle at once, because then it is harmful to your health. Those are very double cases. We are going to look at how we can achieve the local balancing area more. It also helps to better unlock existing consideration space, for example by merging the procedure with the substantive rules rather than the current situation in the Crisis and Recovery Act. With regard to the balance between clear rules and the balancing room, Mr Flierman asked whether there would be a culture of "anything goes." That is not right, because principles of good legislation also apply to the environmental plan. That's gotta be right-handed. It offers room for reflection, but it must also be clear what to keep. For example, when it comes to the overall function of a business site, it must be clear whether there can be light or heavy activity. This also gives sufficient clarity to citizens and businesses. That might be an answer to the PVV's global question. It fits in with the desired culture in which legal certainty goes hand in hand with administrative bodies that are open to citizens' initiatives. Questioned is how I deal with the Veldman amendment on the permanent deviation of standards. This amendment obliges the Empire and the provinces to clarify in their instructions the particular situations in which a broader balance of interests is possible. This involves transforming businesses, areas or homes into metropolitan areas. The regulation that we are designing for it must fit within the objectives of the law, match the tasks and responsibilities and comply with the European rules of the game. Deviation is applicable to the aspects of smell and noise, but not to air, for example, because we have European frameworks there. From the external security aspect you only want to allow temporary deviations and for soil and nature we are still looking at them. You really need to fill that out with each other. This comes back to the General Management Measures. Asked if I'm going to achieve an equivalent level of protection. In my reply to Mrs Vos, I have already mentioned this. It is one of the basic principles of the reform of the system and therefore plays an important role in translating the rules into the new system. You want to offer room for consideration for particular situations, but you do not go to a lower level of protection than current law offers. Mrs Stienen asked a question about the balance between flexibility and legal certainty. Environmental law sometimes clashes with dynamic reality. The rules are often unintended obstacles to desired initiatives and flexibility is important, but not a licence. Both government and business are bound by frameworks and procedures. Decentralized regulations and customization are just as legally certain as any other rule in the environmental plan. We are therefore seeking flexibility and legal certainty. The possibility to deviate from nature and environmental regulations was temporary in the Crisis and Recovery Act. Mrs Vos has asked whether there is a time limit and whether I am prepared to tighten up the instruments for flexibility. We are looking at the design of the follow-up to the rules of the Crisis and Recovery Act. I come to this Chamber to speak in support of the AMVBs, but flexibility will also be more clearly framed than in the Crisis and Recovery Act, because we have to comply with European rules of the game. The regulation must also be in line with the objectives of the law, i.e. on the one hand a balance between health protection, safety and environmental quality and, on the other hand, the use of the living environment for social functions. I can be brief about sustainable development. I have said before that this is really the first law to shape sustainable development at an integral level. There is a driving role for the government and it is a stick behind the door to stimulate sustainable innovations. The government can do this kind of business at national or European level. For example, it can also lay down rules that companies will have to meet in a few years' time. You also have to set these kinds of rules if you want to get certain environmental values. The question is whether the law provides an incentive for sustainable entrepreneurship. Yes, it does so because it promotes smart solutions that reduce environmental pollution, for example by limiting space for use where necessary through environmental plans. The possibilities of flexibility in the legislative proposal allow the competent authority to deviate from tight rules for sustainable initiatives. In my view, I do not have to go into that very much, because flexibility and legal certainty will always be combined. It has been asked what is being done to improve cooperation between enforcement agencies and whether the provinces should not be given a more guiding role. Like Mr Flierman, I think it is very important that there should be sufficient cooperation in enforcement. I see that governments and criminal justice authorities are increasingly aligning their enforcement. An important tool has recently been established with the National Enforcement Strategy. The VTH Act, which will soon be incorporated into the Environment Act, provides tools to further intensify this cooperation. They will need to coordinate their monitoring programmes, as well as the exchange of supervisory data. I believe that the coordinating role of the provinces in this scheme offers good guarantees for effective regional cooperation. The question has been asked whether there is a double role for provinces in environmental services. In practice, the provinces manage to reconcile their different roles. They are principals for the environmental service next to the municipalities. In the context of supervision of municipalities, provinces can also appeal to a municipality on good commissioning. In my opinion, such a situation has never occurred, but it is one of the possibilities. Environmental services are also involved at national level. At official level, we use the expertise and knowledge in the environmental services, but administratively my partners are the directors of municipalities and provinces who are the clients of the environmental service. I think that was also the discussion between the VVD and the CDA on whether it was the technical or the administrative side. Mr Verheijen of the PvdA has asked if I can give an interim view of solving an enforcement problem in complex companies in relation to the concept of "activity." The AMvBs introduce detailed rules for complex companies. They're being hung by parliament. They are currently being developed in close consultation with companies, governments, the VNO-NCW and SMEs. The complex companies are designated as authorised as a whole. These are at least the industrial plants and the Seveso plants. Due to high environmental impacts, Deputy States will monitor all activities subject to authorisation and general rules of the company. This also applies if a licence is applied for later. Only the permit for water activities remains separate and is handled by the water manager. However, compulsory coordination ensures that these licences are aligned. The question is whether I can solve the enforcement problems by releasing the inseparable coherence. As at present, a company may not start until all the required permits have been granted. Responsibility remains with the company. The competent authority must actively inform what licensing obligations apply and this requires an active and alert attitude from the competent authority, as the Eilander/Mans Committee rightly points out. The active information obligation is governed by the General Administrative Law Act. If there is a start without a permit, only a competent authority that acts and does not let itself be put to the test. That is the case now, and that will be the case soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u164	The Minister says that all permits must at least be granted before even one spade can enter the ground. That is not always the case at the moment. If you continue to grant all these licences separately, it may eventually be that, from an integrated perspective, the best solution is not chosen at all. Then you first chose a location, while later on it becomes clear what activity should be in it and perhaps you should say that location should have been in a different place. In this respect, I do not understand why this inseparable cohesion, which is so beautiful in the Wabo, is being taken out of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u165	We're trying to arrange it much more in one permit. That is, of course, why the Environment Act is ultimately based on a single permit. If there is a variety of competent authorities, we try to coordinate the general rules for each project as much as possible. That also requires customization. Sometimes an application for a construction activity only makes sense if it is clear how environmentally harmful the activity will be authorised. Sometimes simultaneous requests are wise and sometimes you have to wait for each other. A proper alignment of the rules therefore benefits from the flexibility in the order and that is why we now have that in the law. For this reason, we have removed the obligation to submit these inseparable activities simultaneously, because it unnecessarily restricts flexibility. Instant cohesion is also difficult, because it is often the question of which activities are actually inseparable. That's what the judge's gotta do. We make it more flexible, because it is difficult to determine, also because it is not always necessary to do it at the same time. Then it is up to the petitioner to see whether he will do so either on a temporary or at the same time. Should the cabinet give more priority, Mrs Vos asks for enforcement to be strengthened and should allow sufficient room for manoeuvre. Much has already been invested in improving enforcement. The recent establishment of environmental services contributes to this further professionalisation. The same applies to the exchange of supervisory data now supported by a national provision. Mrs. Vos asked a question about more freedom of authorisation. How then is it prevented from being built according to the general rules, after which it turns out that this is not the case? I agree with Mrs. Vos that you'd rather not break down buildings afterwards. I, too, want to avoid having to break something up afterwards because it is contrary to unclear rules. But in the case of licence-free building, rules must be concrete and clear. That is the case, and as far as I am concerned it remains the case under the Environment Act. I'm getting to the implementation. At what point can the basic agreement with the umbrella organisations be concluded? In July 2015, implementation of the governance agreement with the representatives of the co-governments was signed. Now we're still talking about funding implementation. I hope to be able to agree on this in the near future. Is there any mention of the VTH Act in the board agreement? I can agree to that. The financial arrangements to be made also relate to the shift of tasks, which has implications for the VTH Act. From BZK there is an investigation into the concern expressed earlier by this Chamber about increasing the enforcement burden on municipalities. With regard to further research into burden reduction for citizens and businesses, I can promise that future investigations into administrative burdens in AMvBs, the introduction law and other regulations will also show the impact on citizens and businesses, as I have done in this legislative proposal. It has been asked whether there is a need for a transition authority, such as in the social domain. In the governance agreement implementation it has been agreed that, subject to the inter-administrative agreements on funding municipalities, provinces and water boards in the new way of working, an implementation programme will support them. This means that we organise meetings and courses, provide tools, give new instruments a role and highlight and so on. We believe that this implementation pathway can sufficiently support municipalities, provinces and water boards for the new role and task for the coming years. We'll monitor that. As far as I'm concerned, the implementation process is a kind of transition process, so you don't need a specific transition authority. Mrs Teunissen said that the implementation costs had not yet been clarified. In the coming years, each legal element will be able to provide an ever better picture of the financial impact of the reform of the system. The introduction law will be more available than it is now. After entry into force, the implementation costs will become really clear. That does not alter the fact that I am already trying to reach agreement in principle with fellow governments on funding. I had an ex-article 2 research done to get some insight, so that we can get to work on the implementation now. Of course, we make agreements with each other about what happens if that turns out to be very different in the future. How do we deal with the cost of training municipal officials? Who's gonna pay for that? These costs are part of the joint implementation programme, which I am currently negotiating. Do I support it with sufficient resources? That's what we're talking about right now. We look at the distribution between investment costs, transition costs and management and maintenance costs. My commitment is to ensure that the parties involved jointly provide sufficient commitment and resources, so that everyone can see the changes that are to come and for which I, as Minister on behalf of the Empire, assume my responsibility. Mrs Meijer asked if I could promise that funding will be resolved satisfactorily. At the moment, the consultation is taking place. If we can get out and sign it with each other, we can say that funding will take place to the satisfaction of everyone. That is also the commitment and purpose of the consultation we are having at the moment. I just can't anticipate the outcome of that consultation. Finally, I come to the "other" block. Can provinces and municipalities jointly address the existing emptiness? This can be achieved through a regional approach, which can be achieved by providing space for transformation and redevelopment, through development planning through the global environmental plans, by making it easier to allocate excess capacity and unused building opportunities and by better planning damage schemes. Mr Verheijen asked when the cabinet would decide on the passage of Paris. I think I have already answered this in the context of environmental values. Mrs Stienen asked a bit of the same question. Can I guarantee that the relationship between the Nature Protection Act and the Environment Act is one-on-one, Mrs. Vos asked. The content of the Nature Protection Act is included in the Environment Act, through the Supplementary Act nature and the accompanying Supplementary Decision. We have taken the Environment Act into account as much as possible in the drafting of the Nature Protection Act. The law, as I said, is incorporated into the Environment Act, but it is also shaped in the same way. In my view, the question was more specific, namely whether the standards would be in the law or in the AMvBs. The latter is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u166	What is now stated in the Nature Protection Act can thus be partially included in an AMvB. Frankly, I have very serious objections to that. For in fact we have just passed a law here, in which we have said with open eyes that this must be done in the law. You're already saying that you're going to put that in part in the AMvB. That is exactly the big problem my group has with this. It really leads to a different level of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u167	I don't agree with you. As mentioned above, the Environment Act has the same legal protection, the same effect and the same awareness. This is the same discussion as on the inclusion of standards in the Water Act. We still have sectoral laws, so soon those standards will turn into an AMvB. The same applies to other parts. Sometimes they go from a ministerial arrangement to an AMvB, sometimes they go from the law to an AMvB. That is the principle that we choose here. The implementation rules based on the Nature Protection Act are incorporated into the Environmental Act and the AMvBs. The principles are in the law, the standards are in the AMvBs. This is done through the Supplementary Act nature and through the accompanying Supplementary Decision. The Chamber will be involved in this when it is joined together. Ms Jorritsma asked whether the entire Environment Act should be covered by one executive and one ministry. That is a nice gesture and I have my own opinion on it. As many things as possible that relate to the living environment can also be controlled in an integral way. But it is not an objective of the law to change and adapt political responsibilities. That is more of a political choice that you can make, including at municipal level, for example to allow much more coherence to take place with a certain alderman. The Environment Act actually facilitates the policy areas that fall under the primary responsibility of colleagues, such as building, monuments, mining and nature. The government's view on whether we comply with international law has been asked. We will. International rules are included in the mandatory delegation bases and the Environment Act. The implementation of the principles of European environmental law by environmental views is legally anchored. Examples include preventive action and sustainable development, which are prominently included in the social goals of the law. Mr Van Hattem asked about the democratic legitimacy of programmes and project decisions. It is true that, according to the Environment Act, the executive has the power to take project decisions and to establish programmes. Programs can be defined by B and W and GS. Democratic legitimacy is ensured through control by the representative body. The PvdA Group asked about the relationship of the Environmental Act with the organic laws. She asked whether organic legislation is superimposed on the Environmental Act regarding the internal regulation of democratic decision-making within the governing bodies. The Environmental Act respects all rules on decision-making in organic laws and supplements them specifically on a single point. The allocation of powers and the usual responsibility of the executive to the general administration remain unchanged. The instruments also remain in place. Mrs. Vos asked about the relationship of the Mining Act with the Environment Act. The Van Tongeren/Vos amendment, adopted in the House of Representatives, indeed extends the review framework for the search and extraction authorisation with environmental interests, among other things. However, the extension of the review framework does not affect the nature of the investigation and extraction authorisation as a market organisation licence, i.e. as a concession. Therefore, inclusion of that authorisation in the Environmental Act is not appropriate. The review framework will be extended, but not the nature of the search and extraction authorisation as a market organisation authorisation. Mr Van Hattem asked what my intentions are in terms of planning damage. The scheme for planning damages is not yet part of the bill. The subject "damage" is included in the Environment Act through the introduction law. I think it is very important that the subject be included in the Environment Act, because good preparation of decisions and careful consideration can also prevent much damage. Should the new development lead to damage, this will, of course, also lead to compensation under the Environmental Act. On 25 November I sent a letter on land policy to the Lower House, in which I outline the contours of the scheme. I want to come up with a clear and predictable arrangement. It is now being prepared, including for the introduction law in the future. I also do this in close consultation with the field, with the various domes, with NEPROM and with the Dutch Association for Building Entrepreneurs. In the end, I will take that into account in the introduction law. In between, of course, I will keep the Chamber informed of the progress made in this area. Mr Van Dijk asked whether it would be wise to include the Supplementary Law on Land Property in the Environment Act. As far as I am concerned, it is wise to include this in the Environment Act, because with the Environment Act you want to offer an integral toolbox for the management and development of the physical environment. I therefore also consider it desirable that these laws should be integrated into the Environment Act because of the coherence of these instruments, which are also necessary to achieve the objectives of the Environment Act. In the new expropriation procedure that I have announced, I naturally have an eye for care. For me, the right to property is also one of the most important rights we have. So you have to deal with that very carefully. I am now preparing him and the integration of the law into the Environment Act is also being regulated there. Eventually, several parties and parliament will be involved. We have already discussed nature destination, nature permit, right of consent and vacancy. I believe that I have now answered all the other questions, and at such a rate at the end that I hope everyone will remember what it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u168	Still an interruption to the trap. I do have a few questions that I do not think have been answered, but I will come back to them in the second term. The Minister spoke about control by representative bodies in the programmes. What are we to imagine if the decision is no longer taken through a state proposal or a council proposal, but only as a communication to the Council and the States? To what extent can these representative bodies really influence it? Is it really just remote control, if there's an issue they're falling over massively?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u169	Programme and project decisions are simply adopted by the executive. So that's B and W or GS, depending on who finally makes that decision. The democratic legitimacy is thus secured, because ultimately the city council oversees B and W and the states oversee the decisions of the delegates. Democratic legitimacy is thus secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u170	I didn't ask for legitimacy; I asked for involvement. I think that's something other than just legitization. Indeed, the States and the Board are controlling GS and B and W, but the real involvement in such a programme does indeed involve a shift of competence in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u171	I don't really see that. For example, when I look at my own work, a Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen has recently been created. The Secretary of State for EZ did, but I was also heavily involved in this. The Chamber wants to talk about it many times before such a programmatic approach is in place. It is not the case that at the end she gets the programme and can say yes or no to it and only play the supervisory role. Very often the House of Representatives takes over, but of course that also applies to municipal councils or to states, the steering role at the front. She says: I know what you're up to, Mr. Minister, or best deputy or best alderman, but we still want to send a signal in advance. That's a bit the same as now: we're putting the Environment Act forward here as a prelude to an introduction law. It is not for nothing that both the Lower House and the Upper House say that they want to be involved in all intermediate steps, including the AMvB's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u172	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u173	Speaking on the basis of my own experience, I notice that Deputy States are sending very strongly by sending communications instead of really involving Provincial States. This will undoubtedly also be the case with some municipal councils. Certainly if through these programmes a much wider range of topics comes into the programmes than now, then I feel that this involvement may leave something to be desired.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u174	I don't know what you're doing with your experience. Nor can I judge this for all the municipalities and all the provinces. This law does not weaken the role of democratic bodies. For example, they still have their right to order. The beauty of a dualistic system is that the city council, the Provincial States and the House of Representatives decide what is going to happen. I'm still from the old stage, where as an alderman I decided what was on the agenda. Then I could talk endlessly and then the council could say something at the end. That's really the other way around. So that position is not affected. They're holding that position. Whether they make good use of it is a second, but that struggle must be waged locally or provincially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u175	I understand Mrs Meijer wants a short suspension. I note the Court's agreement to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u176	We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u177	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for her detailed reply. I would like to make a few comments in her direction, but I cannot resist the temptation to respond to one or two of my fellow Members' comments in this debate. I understood from the Minister more or less that the VNG and the IPO are also looking over our shoulder. That is not wrong, because then they will hear what is being said here. First of all, I would like to talk about central versus decentralised. I thought the debate on this at times was a little bit double. Everyone is in favour of more decentralised consideration, at least I haven't heard anyone say he's against it. Every now and then it seemed that colleagues who would like to set up a well-structured, decentralised balance room would like to give municipalities or provinces the room to make decisions that go in the direction they want politically. I don't think that's the idea. If you want to give that decentralised consideration space, it's for everything. If you're going to frame it in one direction, you'll never know when another central government will frame it in another direction. It is now about the framing of nitrogen deposition, next time it is about housing in rural areas and the third time it is about the establishment of mosques, not to mention even crazy proposals. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, we should not want that. We are really in favour of opening up the provinces and municipalities, based on trust in the intelligence, wisdom, administrative conviction and administrative reasonableness of the administrators and elected representatives at provincial and municipal level. For example, you can use this space to get a little more flexibility in the number and design of environmental plans. There must also be flexibility to play with environmental values and to find a balance, in order to create real consideration space. As far as we are concerned, that is really an essential achievement of this law. That is why we believe it is so important that the administrative agreement we have discussed cannot be changed unilaterally. If there are new circumstances that make all parties say that there is a need for adjustments, that is of course fine. However, it must remain a foundation under the whole system. That is why we also believe it is important that the Minister, or her successor, should remain involved and be able to monitor it in one way or another. I have one more question about the equivalent level of protection. I didn't say much about that in my first term. I understand that the Minister says: you should not have that substantive discussion now, you better do that at another time. I wonder when that other moment will come. Can she say anything about that? Is there any provision that there will be a real debate on some of these issues over the next few years? I come to the implementation and to everything related to it. The Minister has answered my question on the transition from the current regime to the new regime at a rapid rate. I have resisted the temptation to go into that in the event of interruption. As far as I'm concerned, what she said was true in theory. Here too, however, I keep wondering how this goes in a medium-sized or smaller municipality when civil servants who have to experience the transition from the old to the new system are confronted with an environmental plan constructed from existing zoning plans, while at the same time working on the new environmental plan that includes that integrated vision. That's the test on feasibility, just to put it bluntly. That seems to me to be a huge job for such a smaller town. I wonder whether this will work and what support will be provided. I understand that the money has yet to be negotiated; the budgets available for it. As far as I am concerned, that is really another point that needs attention. Finally, I come to ICT. It is clear to me that the Minister also has a great deal of attention and concern for this. She rightly says that many politicians think that this is something that should be resolved by the organisation. This really is a project of such a scale that it also includes administrative responsibility. It has also recognised and recognised them, and that reassures me. I have said that I would find a fall to the minimum level of "Scenario 1' in the jargon called "Scenario 1' unacceptable. I heard what the Minister said about that. It does not seek to do so, but it does not want to rule it out completely at the moment. For us, that would be a "no go," so to speak. To prevent this and to ensure that it all works well, standardisation of concepts and technology is essential. We've already talked about that. Do I understand correctly when I say that, in order to enforce this, the Minister is given the power to set standards in the introduction law? My plea was that, if necessary, she should acquire that power earlier. Of course, it is preferable to have proper consultations, which I admit immediately, but we need to be able to cut the buttons. As far as we are concerned, ICT and the whole introduction and transition of the law are important aspects in the assessment of the implementation law, which we will discuss here in due course. At the moment, I will tell the Minister that I will advise my group to vote in favour of the Environment Act next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u178	Mr. Chairman. As I have already announced, my group still has a number of unanswered questions. I may not have received the answer, but I do not think my question on the exemption for the mandatory environmental impact assessment has been answered: can this obligation also be excluded for wind farms? I do not believe that this is a matter of great importance or necessity. It is also about the publication of decisions. On this point, I asked for a more detailed explanation: will the publication take place at the time of publication or when it is determined by the College? I have also asked about the projects that are just outside the municipality, so just across the municipal border, but which still affect people who just live in the municipality. To what extent can this aspect be taken into account in the Lane of the Environment? The PVV, as has been said, is in principle positive about this law, but does not want to relax on what we might call "the three m's": mills, migrants and mosques. With regard to participation, the Minister has made it very clear that civil participation will improve in advance. It has even said that parties will no longer be attacked. Does this mean that under this law no more azc's are pressed without consultation? Do situations like the ones in the Orange, in Drenthe, really belong to the past? In principle, the competent authority comes to the mayor and the aldermen with this law. Does this mean that Articles 3.1 (b) and 3.2 (b) of the Environmental Law Decree, on the basis of which Deputy States or the Minister instead of the Municipality become the competent authority to push through azc's, will lapse? The minister just said that understanding the Environment Act is complex. Is there really a simplification, including for the citizens themselves? Or is this just a simplification for the fourth power? That term 'fourth power' comes from Mr Crince le Roy, whom I have quoted earlier. We shall consider Mrs Meijer's motion in greater detail. In any case, we are curious how everything will end up in the various AMvBs. As stated earlier, we will, in due course, make our assessment of the implementation law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u179	I have not yet heard Mrs Meijer's motion, but I think we will be hearing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u180	Mr. Chairman. I think I have to now. Mr Van Hattem wants it. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive reply. I think the Minister can imagine that I am not yet happy with the answers on the reduction of deadlines. Especially with the irreversible decisions, such as hood, demolition or changing a monument, we find two weeks really too short, because after two weeks it just happened. If you apply for an interim remedy after three weeks, you're too late. Of course, the fact that someone could have been or had been involved in the participation does not change that. So I would like to table a motion in which we ask that this be fixed by the Introduction Act and that the deadline be extended to four weeks for environmental permits for irreversible activities. The President shall: Mr Meijer, Mr Vos, Mr Stienen, Mr Teunissen and Mr Bikker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas citizens seeking justice need a reasonable period of time to request an interim remedy from the court in order to prevent the entry into force of an authorisation;]] [[Whereas this applies in particular to environmental permits for irreversible activities, such as tree cutting, demolition of buildings or modification of monuments;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Environment Act by introducing it in such a way as to extend the period of entry into force of such environmental permits to four weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u181	Mr. Chairman. We have talked today about protecting and exploiting the physical environment. My group welcomes the Environment Act. We hope that in 2018, when the law enters into force, we will actually see a law that can contribute to green growth in the Netherlands, both now and later. I thank the Minister for the answers to our questions about participation in this law. We are very curious how the Minister will do this in the National Environment Vision. If the Minister, together with her civil servants and all kinds of civil society organisations, has accompanied the process of participation in the co-creation of the National Environment Vision, then we can only agree with Mrs Jorritsma in the sense that hopefully this example will lead many to follow. My group is reassured by the comments made by the Minister and by the answers she has given on the danger of cumulation if good environmental values are not established at local level. We also welcome a co-tweeting employee of VNO-NCW who assures us on Twitter that this law offers many opportunities for sustainable activity. However, I would like to hear what the Minister himself has to say about this, because I have missed that in her reply. Finally. My group continues to dwell on the question of exactly what the Minister is going to do about the way in which the government looks at climate goals, climate change and biodiversity, for example, against global challenges, and not so much towards our neighbours, but more on its own responsibility. In this context, we are also curious to see how co-creation with environmental organisations and industry, for example, will take place in the preparation of the National Environment Vision. My group would like to table a motion to that effect. The President shall: Mr Stienen, Mr Backer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Meijer, Mr Bikker and Mr Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the quality of the living environment and its protection are not limited;]] [[Whereas the implementation of the Environment Act requires a broad focus on both cross-border aspects of the organisation of the physical environment and global challenges such as combating climate change (in relation to the Paris climate agreement 2015), preserving biodiversity and the dependence on scarce raw materials;]] [[invites the Government, when drawing up the National Environment Vision, to explain how the Environmental Law and its implementing rules can contribute to the achievement of the above-mentioned objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u182	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her comprehensive answers. However, my group continues to disagree with her on the level of content. After this empty law, we will be discussing an overcrowded implementation law and a cartload of AMvBs. You don't have to be a psychic to see that they're gonna be chased through this house with steam and boiling water. These are extremes which my group should not go beyond. On more than one occasion, the objections to governing AMvB have been raised here, but the government does not seem to be receptive to it, nor does the possible future coalition partners, who also look at the framework law in a mild anticipation and what can bring it to a later stage. This is a law that any future coalition can go out with. In fact, it is worrying that one of the largest legislative operations in Dutch history is so easily steered through the Chamber for lack of content. The Minister says reassuring words: objections and appeals are not subject to any substantial changes; it is a growth model that we will come out of together and there are preliminary and follow-up procedures, as if the cabinet itself had invented, which of course is not the case. The cabinet would have preferred it without it. Important standards should be laid down in law as far as the Party for Animals is concerned. Mr Bikker and Mr Vos have also argued in favour of this, but the majority of this Chamber seems to accept the idea that this major legislative operation can also be without intensive parliamentary influence. "Decentral, unless" means de facto throwing over the fence of powers to local authorities, without additional resources. Local authorities are already hiding behind background values, with which they do not have to act themselves. For example, the municipality of The Hague says that little can be done to reduce fine dust, because the background concentration of Rotterdam and the highways in the immediate vicinity are outside the influence of the municipality and cannot be compensated. Cooperation on ambient air quality between municipalities is of course a good goal, but if it fails, a national legal safety net is needed. This also applies to other standards. In conclusion, the Animal Party fears that this legislative operation will degrade levels of protection of important vulnerable values to the minimum and out of the direct sphere of influence of parliament. We very much regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u183	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answer. She radiates a lot of enthusiasm in every way. She also exudes that she wants to keep the momentum going. For that, my compliments. In the first term, Mrs Jorritsma pointed to the beautiful green train journey she makes to The Hague. I share that pleasure with her, albeit from another place of residence, but on the highway that is quite frankly a different story. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is net welke route je rijdt.]] She now calls for my route to go through the green heart, but that goes from her speaking time. At least my route shows that there is still something to improve. In terms of the content of this law, much depends on how the introduction law and the AMvBs are going to look. Honestly, that depends almost too much. The Minister wants all the standards in the AMvB, because the distinction is difficult and because of the speed. That plea is not reassuring. I took note of the instructions for regulation and they are clear. It says about legislation: most of them will also have to include the main sustainable standards. I note that in environmental law all sustainable standards go towards AMvB and I still find it difficult to reconcile with the Regulatory Instructions. I have taken as an example water safety. Now I really hope that the Minister will reflect again on how she weighs this element when inserting the Water Act. She doesn't have to make hard statements right now, but I'll ask her to reflect. I believe that that basic level of protection, such a sustainable standard, should be governed by law. To arrange dikes in an AMvB is fine with me. Now it seems like the law is an obstacle, but that won't be the look of this cabinet, will it? I assume, on the contrary, that a parliament concerned also understands that not everything can be filled in. As far as participation is concerned, I have heard the Minister promise that she will make a handout to promote participation and that she will also monitor it. I would ask her for a small addition to that commitment, namely that it also provides insight into the implementation law into the progress made. I'll be on legal protection. I would like to thank the Minister for her explanation that the exclusion of an administrative body from the suspensive effect of an interim provision, Article 16.79 (3), can only be used in a sparing manner and that, like Article 6.2 of the Wabo, the same interpretation will be given to the courts. Do I understand correctly that the judge's review will be the same, on the same specific standards? I'd like to hear a confirmation. As far as relations between governments are concerned, the Minister's response to the reduction in planning capacity is not yet convincing. The project decision of the province that sees realisation can be done and the project decision that sees reduction cannot be done. I do not see why one does prevail over the municipal interest and not the other. On what scale can the best reduction of overcapacity take place? I think the minister thinks from the good will of the congregations. I appreciate that. I, too, like the principle of subsidiarity, but fear that this is too optimistic, simply because it is difficult for many municipalities to delete, just because of land exploitation and planning. Let's not keep playing well-nice. I'm doing a little hand-picking. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the IPO in the run-up to the Introduction Act to see whether the current proposals are sufficiently effective in dealing with vacancy and to inform the Court of Justice about this to the introduction law? Mrs Jorritsma says something again and takes away speaking time from me. I'm coming to the end. This is a law which, to the taste of the Christian Union, is really a good simplification, with the starting point of involving citizens more in advance. We appreciate that. Whether the law will contribute to a better living environment, to a more beautiful Netherlands, depends, to be honest, on everything that is to come. Now the minister is in Thorbecke's tradition, "wait for our actions." This story is a positive one for us. We have a minister who wants to speed up, who is enthusiastic, especially on the subject of water. The Christian Union has indicated what topics it considers important in these actions. This applies to legal protection, which is based on participation and sees how the law is dealt with. This should include sustainable standards. I look forward to the Minister's reply and I look forward to all the points she is going to make with regard to environmental law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u184	Mr. Chairman. You gave the floor initially to Mr Verheijen. A little flexibility in the order wouldn't have been very bad. I would like to thank the Minister for her very comprehensive reply. She comes up with some beautiful ideals, images of how all this is going to work. She said, for example, that we're gonna weigh it all up in front of each other. Then I'm thinking, "I'm with each other," of course, that's what I'm here for. But we do have to do very well how we do it and who they are "with each other." If you leave that to the social forces, we already know that a number of stronger parties are going to determine more in this than people who are not getting up to speed when it comes to influence and decision-making. That is why we think it is so important that this law actually regulates a number of legal frameworks very closely. The Minister then says that there will be more administrative space, but that this will be done within clear rules. That is exactly the point in my group that we have major questions about when we read this law. Are those rules that clear? So we don't know a lot of rules, because they won't be in the AMvBs until soon. The Minister then says: the legal protection and the specific issue of the suspensive effect that can be applied for in irreversible decisions can be settled perfectly in those two weeks. She says that she has to harmonise, and that is why she has been chosen for those two weeks. Frankly, she has not been able to convince my group. We believe that today's Wabo is very clear about this. For irreversible decisions you simply need to arrange more time so that at least a suspensive effect can be applied for and granted. I therefore wholeheartedly support Mrs Meijer's motion on this matter. Then there is a point that weighs very heavily for our group: AMvB or law. I'm telling you, I just got angry. We just got here. How long has it been? A very large Act on the Protection of the Environment adopted. I asked the Minister: what we agreed on in that agreement remains legally regulated, isn't it? "No, of course not," the minister says, "that becomes part of the Environment Act." So huppetee, a lot of things that we have dealt with in the legislation, the Minister is actually moving to the AMvBs in one sentence in advance. Then what am I doing here as a legislative body, so I ask the Minister. I'm really outraged about this. That is at the heart of the problem that my group has with this bill and certainly with the way the Minister talks about it. All I can taste is that she says it's about speed and it doesn't matter if it's in an AMvB. The Minister wants it fast, so let's go. Mrs Bikker has just rightly already mentioned something that we have already agreed on in the area of regulation. I repeat what the Council of State says about this: essential standards and a careful limitation of the regulatory powers delegated to the administration must be laid down in the law. The proposed legal system should provide for an equivalent level of legal protection. So the Council of State has doubts about that. Review frameworks on the basis of which further substantive standards are set or permit applications are reviewed should be laid down in the law, says the Council of State. I continue to have very serious reservations in principle about the way in which the Minister regulates this and the lightness with which she deals and says that it doesn't matter at all. We are not going to accept that. We absolutely disagree with and will continue to disagree with this principle. When these AMvBs arrive, we will of course be playing our very critical role, because that is what we have to do. But we have an extremely serious problem with it. Unfortunately, the environmental values aren't in the law. We're not okay with that, but that's the way it is. My group would like the environmental values to be regulated in any case, so that we already know what will be in the AMvB. We now know that at least national standards are in place for air, water and the safety of quays. The Minister does not want to say that there is at least an environmental value for CO. I don't think her story about that is strong. We all need dialogues and so on. I would say: climate agreement, Paris, the Urgenda speech; I think the urgency is crystal clear. As far as we're concerned, that's just gonna have to happen. In addition, of course, a number of things, such as sound, are now regulated at a legal level. I refer to Article 11.2 of the Environmental Management Act. As far as smell is concerned, there is a law on odour nuisance and livestock farming. I refer to Article 3 of that directive. The Minister says that we cannot establish an environmental value for this. I honestly don't understand that; it's just in the law now. I would say: make it compulsory for it to be included in the underlying legislation, so that we know that the equivalent level of protection is actually achieved. The same applies, as far as we are concerned, to nature. As regards the review frameworks, what is currently contained in Article 2.1 of the Wabo is simply the assessment framework for the environmental authorisation. So that's settled. The Flora and fauna Act regulates the prohibitions for which an exemption is required. All on a legal level. As far as the inseparable cohesion is concerned, it is now regulated in the Wabo for a reason. I am not convinced by the Minister on this point and would very much like to keep her promises, at least the promise that there will be at least an equivalent level of protection. I have tabled two motions to ensure that we are given more guarantees that the implementing rules will regulate a number of crucial things for us, in terms of a number of environmental values and also in terms of the level of protection that needs to be achieved. It is clear that my group has extremely serious doubts as to whether it can agree to this bill, but we would naturally like to await the Minister's latest replies. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Strike, Mr Stienen, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Bikker, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Meijer and Mr Teunissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas rules on granting and refusing environmental permits (assessment rules) will no longer be regulated at legal level;]] [[considers that these rules are of great importance for the way in which decisions on licensed activities are taken in the physical environment and therefore for the level of protection that should be maintained at least;]] [[calls on the Government to take over, as far as possible, the assessment rules for environmental permits in the implementing legislation as unchanged as possible from the current laws and regulations and to ensure that any reformulation does not lead to a deterioration of the level of protection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Strik, Mr Stienen, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Meijer, Mr Bikker, Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Teunissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government intends to establish only a limited number of environmental values at national level;]] [[Whereas it is left to local authorities to impose additional environmental values or rules on other aspects;]] [[Whereas it is not possible to guarantee, without further rules or standards, that the quality of the living environment is at least preserved;]] [[calls on the government to include instructional rules as a safety net in the implementing rules so that local authorities at least have to lay down rules on noise, smell, landscape values and nature,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-M]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u185	Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mrs Vos has been active in the field of environmental policy for more than 20 years. That goes a little bit for me, too. If you look at that period of over 20 years, you can see that every change in the legislation was accompanied by a discussion on the assessment of risks and opportunities. I remember the urban and environmental approach in the 1990s, where it was also thought that anything could be done. Ultimately, this has led to a very acceptable guidance of experiments and the third step, to determine whether or not you could meet the standard. I also remember the area-oriented environmental policy, where several apples and pears had to be brought together in an integrated approach. That was also very complicated, but ultimately successful. I also recall the codification of the Water Act in 2009, where for the first time six laws had to be put together in one go and the water experts said: that is never possible. That's a nice step up for this Environment Act. I would also like to remind you of the Crisis and Recovery Act. I will not say that it has brought nothing but beauty and positive results. There are quite a few drawbacks to mention, but in general, this Crisis and Recovery Act has created more experimental and learning space for a lot of local authorities, to see if they could do it in another way. This has not led to spectacular results, but there has been an effort that has brought more commitment, more participation opportunities, more coherence and more integration than I had imagined at the start of the Crisis and Recovery Act. I do not think that the Crisis and Recovery Act has solved the crisis, but that it has brought much more experimental and learning capacity for the governments themselves. That's how we look at this Environment Act. It is a step, but one that can now be taken at the right time to achieve full integration into the physical environment. We are looking at this in a positive and perhaps optimistic way. In my speech I would like to mention a number of points on which I would like to draw the attention of the Minister. I certainly think that the debate on political standardisation, the next battle that is to be made after 2018, will concern us at least as much as the debate on the process architecture, which we are now discussing. But I am convinced that this process architecture is innovative and will bring more learning capacity to the government. In doing so, we have also agreed to the structure that we now have, of a procedural law with AMVBs that are still to come. It is also important that the Minister has just said in the debate that the internal regulations of the governments themselves, the relationship between the daily administrations and the councils, the states and the water authorities, must remain intact. They must determine their own manner of handling and legitimacy. It was also important that the Minister said that inter-administrative alignment with this law could lead to greater administrative capacity. I mentioned an example of the discharge on the Meuse, but I do not want to go into the casusism of that incident. However, the Minister did say that she also felt that the government had an involvement in this process, so that an approach to the sustainable security of drinking water sources in the Meuse could be improved and it would not be left to a single competent authority to set standards for a new substance. I heard this in her explanation of the application of the EU principles. If I understand correctly, they also lay the basis for the motivation of the local authorities for the balancing framework through the state instruction rule. In my view, this means that the circular economy plan, which is now also coming from the European Union and is about a great deal of reuse of waste streams and raw materials, is going through local authorities in the near future by means of the instruction rule, so that the maximum possible re-use rate can be achieved there. That must be the conclusion of the Minister's argument. If we look at what remains to be regulated at the same time, we can see that there are at least four major items in particular on the cost side: ICT costs, implementation costs, enforcement and monitoring costs and participation and participation costs. I heard those four costs in the debate. There is an ICT project in progress, but I do not think it would be wise to intervene in it. That is the responsibility that the Minister and the umbrella organisations must take up and resolve. Then there are implementation costs and enforcement costs, for example when it comes to letting go of the inseparable doctrine of coherence, and finally the participation and participation costs. The Minister said about the latter: yes, it costs money and I do not want to impose it. That's right, but that doesn't mean you're gonna be there with a hand-off. So you will have to make agreements in consultation with the umbrella organisations, although they are form-free, necessary and possible. There must also be more or less agreement on protecting the citizen's position in terms of how he or she can have a say and support his or her need for participation. We do not have to make these agreements today, but we do have to do so with the introduction law, so that we know that all governments are participating and are therefore willing to make costs for supporting the strength of the citizen when it comes to his desire to participate or not participate, so to stay away, while he does want to respond at a time when he thinks it can be really useful and necessary. In this context, I would like to hear the Minister's commitment to this in the administrative consultation with the other authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u186	Mr. Chairman. As far as participation is concerned, the Minister has said a lot, quite rightly, because that is also a bit at the heart of the changes in the whole system. I really only missed one thing, namely that it is not only cultural change and not just bringing the process forward. I think it has something to do with the level at which people are doing their jobs. I think that many of our officials have so far been very busy applying rules. That is easy, fine, sure and safe, but all civil servants need to be able to hang over matters if they want to do it right later. The same applies to directors, council members and representatives of the people. Indeed, the law requires much more to oversee the whole and to make its own choices. I am pleased that the Minister has said that this is extremely important. Of course, a judge will test if it's done properly. That's gonna be the proof of the pudding later. He will check whether municipalities or an initiator have given sufficient attention to this. I hope that there is not too much to judge, but that, precisely thanks to the fact that the preliminary stage has been well completed, it is quickly becoming clear. I see only an extension of procedures in the Meijer motion. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. It would be nice to also opt for shortening if you opt for extension. Then we can incorporate two standards into the law and maybe make some profit. I'll find out later. The Minister has already said something about the costs. I assume that Article 2 is simply applicable. I am not quite sure yet whether I agree with Mr Verheijen that we should make additional finance available for the participation side. I think that we need resources for implementation, for ICT services and so on, but I actually think that participation should be part of the normal process. She is, too, often too late. Most of the time it takes more effort to get it done, so I am not sure whether the amount of costs will increase in this way compared to the current situation. In fact, I think you're gonna save what you're doing out front at a later point in the process. I come to the relationship between public bodies. I welcome the comment made by the Minister on this subject, including against Mrs Bikker. I think it's gonna be taken care of right now, unlike the way things are going. By the way, the province of Utrecht should take a look at how the province of Noord-Holland or, rather, the north wing except Utrecht has arranged it. That's where they did it very neatly. Municipalities have made joint agreements in the presence of the province. There's nothing against that. The region itself has done it in the end. In my view, that is the best solution. The minister said that a province can still stop something by an instructional rule, but that it was not going to decide what to do. The weird thing is, this is possible now. In the context of flexibility, I note that we are curious. It seems perfectly logical to me that there are bands for sound and smell. I'm very curious about the results of the thoughts about soil and nature. I'm really curious what that's gonna look like. I have not yet reached an opinion on this. ICT remains a difficult subject. I notice that the Minister is also anxious to see how that goes and whether we can do it. I am convinced that the whole law can only be implemented with a good system of ICT services. If that doesn't work, it's gonna be way too complex. In that case, citizens will no longer understand what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u187	Since the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment cannot reply immediately, I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u188	Mr. Chairman. I have received a number of questions from the various Members of the Chamber and a number of motions for resolutions. I will deal with them in the order in which they were inserted, so by group. The CDA talks about a good relationship between central and decentralised. If you give decentralised space, you must do so; you must then fully shape that decentralised power, Mr Flierman said. Of course, I agree with him. This means that you sometimes give space, for example a flexible consideration space. However, it may also be the case that a municipality is going to impose stricter requirements, for example with regard to air quality. It can't be that you're giving space on the one hand and saying on the other hand that you can't, or just the other way around. If you're gonna do it, you're gonna have to do it right, and you're gonna have to trust it. It is therefore important not to change the administrative agreement unilaterally. The CDA shall ask for the equivalent level of protection. Having heard my comment that I would now prefer to do a neutral conversion in the AMvBs, it wonders when the adjustments to the level of protection will be dealt with. That could be at different times. There's a lot of discussion in the House of Representatives. For example, when I say that we meet all the air quality requirements, certain parties there say that these requirements should actually be stricter, given the WHO opinion. Then I always answer that the House of Representatives, in this case in a European context, must therefore adopt this stricter standard. You don't do that when you treat the AMvBs as a system, would be my preference, but really at times when you're dealing with the different laws or parts of the law in terms of content. That's gonna happen all the time. The CDA also calls for attention to the transition from old to new, specifically for the medium-sized and smaller municipalities. Of course, the transition is a huge job, and we will also support it. Especially the small municipalities receive specific attention in the implementation programme of the m.e.r through a regional approach. We're gonna do that demand-driven. I believe that I have dealt with the points raised by the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u189	If the Minister walks through all the points so neatly, I would like to say that I have also made a few comments on ICT. If she says again that she agrees with me, it is of course dear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u190	In the context of the late hour, I had thought that I am not going to repeat everything we can find each other on, but only those points on which a clear question was asked to me. But I fully agree with Mr Flierman that it is an essential condition for the law to come to full maturity. In fact, I have already spontaneously indicated to him that, as far as I am concerned, the further implementation of the ICT project is also my baby. I will remain on top of it and recommend it in the warm attention of my successors, as far as they come, so that it may have their full attention. The PVV Group has asked for the mandatory m.e.r. at windmills. Can I exclude that Article 16.44 does not apply to the installation of wind turbines? I can rule that out. Article 16.44 provides that exemptions may be granted for the preparation of an environmental impact report. Exemption can only be granted if the immediate implementation of the project is necessary because of the general interest. So that is really meant for very exceptional situations and not for something like the installation of windmills. Mr Van Hattem of the PVV also asked for a more detailed explanation of when decisions were published. Publication of decisions is the time when the time limit for the two weeks following the entry into force of the authorisation. As I said in the debate, it is the publication of decisions; an application for interim measures within that time limit has an automatic suspensive effect. But it's really about the publication. I'll be on the SP motion in a minute. The PVV has asked whether stakeholders have an insight into the environmental permit of neighbouring municipalities, including via the Laan van de Leefenvironment. Yes. There's a reporting service now, and it's staying. The PVV has asked for no relaxation for the three m's and has asked whether an azc cannot be pushed through. The three m's cannot be pushed because you have participation in project decisions. This also applies to any other use of a building or of the public space. We're working on a governance culture for all decisions. So it's no different for azc's than what I said before about prisons or police stations, for example. There is participation in project decisions and therefore it cannot be pushed through. The PVV wonders whether the Environment Act is not too complex to understand. It is, of course, a complex whole to talk about now, because we merge so many laws. However, the objective of the Environment Act is an enormous simplification. There is simplification for all users: there are uniform concepts, clear rules, a clear structure and digital provision that will give greater clarity. As far as I am concerned, citizens and businesses, as well as the public authorities, are given a much clearer system than the many sectoral laws we currently know. This was an important improvement for the whole system. I have already responded to Mr Van Hattem's motion, which he submitted in the first term. Then I'll join the SP. The spokesman comes back to the discussion about the two-week period and states in the Meijer c.s. motion. (letter K) to amend the introduction act by extending the period of entry into force for environmental permits relating to irreversible activities to four weeks. I tried to convince the Chamber to embrace the system we had devised. I understand I couldn't do that. However, I would like to reserve the right to retain the improvement, not only a faster but also a more transparent decision-making process by harmonising procedures. That's why I suggested two weeks. That's why I advise against this motion. However, I feel that there is broader support in this Chamber for the proposal. If the motion is passed, I will give it a place under the introduction law. However, I think it is important that we also take the space to see if we can just bring the other permits back to the zero weeks as they are now. Mrs. Jorritsma asked for this too. If you are going to differentiate, so one is going to extend and shorten the other, then I would say: if you renew the other, you might also be able to shorten one. Then I get to the input of D66. The spokesperson asked me to go into sustainable activity again. Perhaps my answer didn't come across well in the crowds. The Environment Act, of course, promotes smart solutions that reduce environmental pollution. Many of these smart solutions in sustainable initiatives are now blocked by the fact that the rules are often inflexible. Everyone says we'd really like to, but we can't. For example, water boards that want to become energy-sufficient by using the heat from cleaning water to heat the neighborhood. This often does not fit in with the current rules. This could lead to greater flexibility. The flexibility given to the competent authority in the legislative proposal offers opportunities to deviate from restrictive rules for sustainable initiatives and business. The law allows for experiments, but at the same time you can indicate in your environmental plan that you want to limit the use area. Sustainable initiatives are, of course, often aimed at limiting the scope for use, reducing the scope for use. This can also be encouraged along that road. There are several possibilities in the Environmental Act to stimulate sustainable activity. The Motion-Steens c.s. (letter L) refers to the national environmental vision and the question of how we can contribute to achieving a wide range of global challenges, such as climate change, biodiversity and dependence on scarce raw materials. The quality of the living environment cannot be determined by boundaries. It is therefore always a global task. I am asked to explain in the National Environment Vision how the Environment Act can be used in this kind of global task. I see the motion as a policy support, because it is also our objective to give this type of theme, such as how we deal with energy transition, energy declarations and climate forecasts, a place and role when making the environmental vision. Then you put in the environmental vision what your ambitions are. Then you can agree with each other on which level they can best be realized. The spokesman of the Party for the Animals spoke about an empty law and about AMvBs who would soon be jacked by it in the Lower House and this Chamber. I certainly don't think this is an empty law. This law also contains principles. It also states what the objective is, namely to improve or maintain the living environment. If Mrs Teunissen refers to AMVBs through coats, she may address her colleagues, but I would never do so myself. I think it is very important to discuss them properly in terms of content. This is not the case. Mrs Teunissen also said that the cabinet would prefer to do it without a prior and afterhang, but that is not the case either. I have asked the Council of State how it looks at the way we have set it up now, with a law, AMvBs and an introduction law. The Council of State has said that it would be nice if we could incorporate all the standards into the law now, but it also understood very well that this was not possible at the moment. That is why the Council was very pleased that we have made a path with an introduction law at the end, in which we can look over the whole after we have dealt with the AMvBs. In the end, therefore, the Council has supported us in our approach. Nor have we done nothing about the opinion of the Council of State. We have dealt with it actively in several places. We have included more guidance in the legislative proposal by limiting the basis of delegation. We have designed a regulation of tasks at law level. I would also mention the framing of powers and the prioritising of AMVBs. We have also made a commitment to submit the introduction law and the AMvBs simultaneously for advice to the Council of State. On behalf of the Christian Union Group, Mrs Bikker has once again drawn attention to the water standard. She asks me to at least reflect on how we weigh this aspect when inserting the Water Act. I'll do that. I am not just trying to include the standards because of the speed in the AMvBs; it is also because of the clarity and the integral consideration. So I don't see the law as an obstacle, but I see the AMvB as a clever instrument. I will certainly reflect on this when inserting the Water Act, as requested. Not only does Mrs Bikker ask me to give a hand for participation, she also asks me to indicate the state of play when dealing with the introduction law. I'll be sure to. I'm sure I'll give you an insight into that. Not only then, but also in the interim in monitoring, we already provide insight into the progress made in the field of participation. Mrs Bikker further asked whether the judicial review as it was in the Wabo was designed in the Environment Act in the same way. I can confirm that. The judge will apply the same review criterion in no time. Mrs Bikker also called for attention to be paid to the empty stand instrument. She felt that the discussion we had between us did not prove convincing enough that the instrument was going to work. I believe in that myself. Mrs Bikker asks me to look in the long term with the IPO to see whether the current instruments are sufficient. I think that's a good deal. In any case, I regularly sit around the table with the domes to see what works in practice and what doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u191	Could the Minister inform the Chamber of this before the introduction law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u192	I'm sure you can. GroenLinks' group is outraged at the fact that the Nature Act is finally being incorporated into the Environment Act and that parts of the Nature Act are going to get a place in the AMvB. The incorporation of the Nature Protection Act takes place through a formal law; that is the adaptation law nature. Parliament is fully involved as a co-legislator. The Chamber thus always sees what of the now sectoral law through the Adaptation Act nature eventually ends up in the Environment Act. We are having a careful debate on this. It is not the case that the debate has now taken place here, and it will not be clear what has or has not been included in the Environment Act. It has always been clear, however, that I know that in any case of the House of Representatives; in dealing with the Environment Act, I have always been expressly asked whether the Nature Act would be designed in such a way that it would fit one-on-one into the system of the Environment Act, so that its standards would have a place in the AMvBs. Anyway, the Chamber will be involved again one-on-one when the Adaptation Act nature is realized. A number of points have been raised about the Council of State, but I have already responded to this in response to the speech of the Animal Party. Mrs Vos asks for environmental values to be regulated, especially those already formulated at the law level, such as noise and the like. Mrs Vos has also tabled a motion on this subject, so let me respond immediately. In that motion, with letter N, the government is asked to include instructional rules as a safety net in the implementing rules so that local authorities at least have to lay down rules on noise, smell, landscape values and nature. In the BKL there are instructions on this. That's always been my intention. There are such rules of instruction now. In that respect, I see the motion as a support for policy. I would like to make one specific point. Mrs Vos talks about "landscape values." This applies only to the world heritage. That is also the only thing that has been recorded at the moment. With that remark, I see the motion as a support for policy. On behalf of GroenLinks, Mrs Vos has tabled another motion calling on the government to take over environmental permit assessment rules in the implementing regulation as far as possible unchanged from the current legislation and regulation and to ensure that any reformulation does not lead to a deterioration of the level of protection. "As much as possible," but I do need some room for harmonisation and better accessibility. I have already said that the level of protection in general is good, but that a different choice can sometimes be made on subjects. If that space exists, I also see this motion as a policy support. Mrs Vos made one more comment on a point that I apparently did not make clear. In any case, I am getting an official correction on what I said earlier about the Commission in particular. Following a question from Mrs Vos. That question was whether the citizen could ask for an independent quality check on a plan- or project-m.e.r. The answer to this is that citizens can always ask for an opinion from the Commission, but that the competent authority decides whether this is necessary. Mr Verheijen of the PvdA has said a lot of things with which I also agreed. So I will not repeat them all. He has asked me specifically to look at the future of participation, representativeness and support for the individual citizen in participation. Fortunately, he also gave me that form-free now should be on the agenda. His question was whether I would like to go into consultation with the domes on how to achieve the best possible shape in the future. Of course I'd love to. I will make it possible to discuss the participation process in consultation with the co-governments. The participation costs are part of the laws and regulations and are therefore simply part of the financial arrangements that are made. We had already found each other on Mr Verheij's other points. The VVD says that it is not only a cultural change in the administration, but also an administrative change. That's the beauty of an Environment Act: you're not looking at what's not allowed anymore, but at how to make things possible. Instead of making things impossible, you make things possible. Of course, that also requires a different view of the world. This applies not only to this Environmental Act, by the way. When I look at my own organization, it is of course a discussion that you often have: are you looking at limitations, or are you looking at the possibilities to arrange something anyway? As far as costs are concerned, of course, Article 2 applies. We have also had an investigation into Article 2. The way we're gonna arrange the distribution, we're gonna end up laying down an agreement between the domes and the Empire. The VVD has also called for attention to be paid to ICT and the problems that can arise around ICT. I would also like to say that this has my greatest attention in the coming period. The AMvBs are coming now. The introduction law also requires a lot of attention. In the meantime, there is a parallel process in which we are really looking very closely at how we can best shape this. I think I have answered the questions that have been put and the motions that have been tabled. I am glad that I am in any case able to test broad support in the Chamber, although some people are still very anxious about what their precise voice will be. It has been a very special process, also for myself as a minister. I have seen quite a few legislative processes in recent years. Working so intensively, with so many parties, to achieve a law that changes a lot and in which, despite all the changes, clarity, simplicity and improvement are the most important parts, instead of regulating extra things; I found that very pleasant to be able to work on. I said at the beginning: thank you to everyone who has worked on this. I'd like to say that again at the end. This is probably the last time I have spoken about this in plenary for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-eerstekamer-8.u193	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that we vote next Tuesday on this bill and the motions tabled.
