ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance, like those present in the public gallery. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The three richest people in the Netherlands together own more than half of all the Dutch possess together. You should let that work on you: the three richest Dutch possess more than 8 million people. This is what inequality looks like. A small elite group swallows everything at the expense of a lot of other people. Thanks to this cabinet, these differences become even greater. With this policy, on the one hand, we see poverty among children, among the elderly and under-employed, and, on the other hand, the number of millionaires in the Netherlands is growing more rapidly than ever. Over the last five years, that number has grown by 15,000. That while at the same time 1 million Dutch people cannot pay the cost of care, tens of thousands of elderly people risk losing part of their pension, half a million people are behind in rent and 421.000 children have to grow up below the poverty line. The only group that has really benefited from this cabinet policy over the past year is a small group of very wealthy people and the large multinationals, who hardly pay taxes due to tax avoidance. This is at the expense of all the Dutch people whose 50 billion in savings from Rutte I and II have been passed on. The rents have increased, the own risk has increased and the wages have been too low for years. This symbolizes the growth of the gap in our society, with all the associated consequences that we see every day and that we also see getting worse every day. I would have liked to ask the Prime Minister a number of questions, because the growing gap in society should actually be a chefsache. But the Prime Minister wanted to leave the answer to the Deputy Prime Minister. Apparently, it wasn't that important to him either. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State for Finance is taking the trouble to come to the Chamber to explain and explain. He's the one I have the following questions for. Do you also think that increasing inequality is a growing problem? Is the Cabinet not ashamed that more children have to grow up in poverty, while at the same time the number of millionaires has increased significantly through policy? The most important question is: is the cabinet finally prepared to do something to reduce the growing inequality, for example by introducing a fair capital gain tax and a millionaire tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. It's true that the number of millionaires has increased. To be honest, I would like to offer as many people as possible to join the guild of the millionaires. If we wait long enough, that will happen automatically, because first of all we have inflation, which automatically adds millionaires every year, and in addition, the number of households increases and, consequently, the number of millionaire households. Real assets are also increasing, because people have started to save more. We have gone from a situation of saving to a situation of saving. In addition, the fairs were restored at that time. This naturally increases the number of millionaires. We had a slight slump in the introduction of the euro, but now we are getting into that again. Is that a problem? The aim of government policy is not to reduce the number of millionaires. The aim of public policy is also not to ensure that everyone has exactly the same power. The aim of public policy, which is the essence of differences in wealth, is that there should be no obstacles to social mobility and social development. The Netherlands is doing well in this area. The gini coefficient indicates whether or not there is an increasing inequality in the Netherlands. For eight years the same gini coefficient has been thrown around. The Netherlands has therefore not seen a significant increase in inequality. The cabinet finds work the way out of poverty. Then it is good to see that more than 100,000 jobs have already been created in the last seven quarters. In the last year the child benefit and the child-related budget have been adjusted upwards. We therefore see in the CBS figures Mr Roemer mentioned that the number of households with relatively low incomes and the number of children in poverty is falling again in 2016. In reply to Mr Roemer's last question, the cabinet does not like the introduction of a millionaire tax. However, it feels like keeping an eye on the purchasing power at the bottom. The discussion on box 3 has taken place in detail over the past year, including with the SP. The plans for this are perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-2.u4	I think a million people at home are listening with increasing amazement to the answer from the Secretary of State for Finance. For the SP, the benefit of a growing number of millionaires is that we are at least raising more to really tackle poverty. In recent years, however, government policy has focused mainly on subsidising the richest people and the largest companies. All the burdens of the heavy cuts of 50 billion have largely been borne by the public sector and by the middle-income and lower-income people. Think of reducing benefits, the household allowance, raising one's own risk, reducing poverty policies and all rent increases. A lot of such measures fall down on people with children or on the elderly. In particular, the number of children I was talking about, 421,000, has been increased by 100,000 during this cabinet period. Those kids can't be guaranteed in the morning with a decent sandwich to school. This is the policy of the cabinet of recent years. This also widens the gap in society, namely the gap between the rich, who are getting richer, and the poor, who are getting poorer. Surely it is not possible for the Secretary of State and the Cabinet to accept this and say: that is very nice; we will continue to do so with a little tip. I ask my question again: why is the government alone not carrying out the motion of SP, D66 and GroenLinks to achieve a fair capital gain tax? By making them fairer, you solve a large part of the problem of child poverty in one go. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr Roemer speaks of a gap and inequality. In the international perspective, inequality in the Netherlands is low, both in terms of income and wealth. Moreover, it is not substantially increasing. This is evident from the long-term series of so-called gini coefficients. There is no growing inequality in the Netherlands. The number of households at risk of poverty according to the CBS definition, which includes the 421.000 children Mr Roemer is talking about, which was higher before the turn of the century. We're coming out of the crisis slowly now. The economy is recovering. The path to purchasing power is through work. We see that more people are getting jobs and that this count decreases. I have answered Mr Roemer's question. In the power sphere, we go to taxing the actual returns. The SP is in favour of this, along with a lot of other groups. I'm busy with that. Coming Prince's Day, I'll report on how that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-2.u6	A final question or comment, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-2.u7	A final remark, Madam President. They are wonderful technical talk from the Secretary of State, but the facts speak for themselves. The number of children in poverty is increasing, poverty is growing, the number of millionaires is increasing and tax avoidance in large companies is immense. That is say and write the policy of four, five, six years Rutte I and II. It is high time for change, for a social policy to finally do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-2.u8	So much for the broadcasting of political parties. I didn't hear a question.
