ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. I would like to give the floor to Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Usually it's nice to talk about football, but unfortunately not in this case. A few weeks ago, we saw in a broadcast by ZEMBLA that many artificial turf fields are covered with rubber granulate and that that granulate contains carcinogenic substances. It's about packs, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. From the tyre industry it was immediately said that there was not much going on. RIVM also said that it was not immediately very concerned about this. This weekend, however, the first investigations initiated by the tyre industry came out. This showed that 58 out of 60 fields examined contain several carcinogenic substances, exceeding the standard for consumer products between 1.5 and 3.7 times. Toxicologist Van den Berg said these concentrations are higher than you should want because of health. A hematologist who is a blood expert professor Löwenberg even said: footballing on rubber granulate is experimenting with healthy people. Of course, that's a spicy statement. I would therefore like to put it to the Secretary of State for comment. Many people at home have children who spend every weekend at the D'tjes, E'tjes, F'jes on an artificial turf field. We have a lot of artificial grass fields in the Netherlands by now. Those people are wondering if they can send their kid into the artificial field this weekend. That is what we are all concerned about in this Chamber. I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to express her position on this matter. I would like to know specifically how she assesses Professor Löwenberg's statement. Is it right what he says or is it too early to say that? So can parents actually send their kids out on the field this weekend?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I think it is good to note that I fully understand Mr Smaling's questions. One of those kids who's back on that field this weekend is my kid. This includes fields in which this type of rubber granulate is present. So I understand the concerns that parents in the Netherlands have about this not only as a driver, but also as a mother very well. For this reason, the Minister of Health has not so long ago established that it is necessary to ask RIVM for further research which looks precisely at the question raised by Professor Löwenberg, namely: is there an increased health risk? If I understand correctly, Mr Löwenberg said that there is no evidence that it is bad. He added, however, that there is also no evidence that there is nothing going on. That is exactly why we have asked RIVM: do this now more closely, because then we can see what consequences this has for public health. At the same time, we are not only working on this type of research in the Netherlands, but the European Commission is also working on it. In January, we expect an examination of this in which these questions will be raised again. On the basis of this research, we can then identify what we need to do next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u4	Part of the history of the problem has to do with European regulation. My impression is that the Netherlands has pulled the right end of the rope. The question was: is this a consumer product or is this not a consumer product? At that time, the majority of Member States said that it is not a consumer product, while a goalie is, of course, half the time on the ground. Then he can get those balls in the mouth or he can get abrasions. That discussion apparently took place there. I wonder why the Netherlands finally agreed to this decision. Isn't it a basic duty of the government to stand up for the health of its own people? Surely it could have chosen to regard it as a consumer product? You wouldn't have had the situation right now that these materials are allowed. In fact, a lot of this stuff comes from China, and I can imagine that's even worse quality than what's already on those artificial turf fields. That's my first question. Then there's my second question. Does RIVM also address exposure and the difference between occasional and weekly exposure in its studies? The research we have seen so far focuses more on the materials that lie there and there is an occasional urinalysis. But, yeah, that doesn't get us anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u5	Maybe I can link the last question to the first one. Yes, the RIVM is going to look at the exposure and can therefore, we hope, give a more real picture of the precise effect of the whole story. That also has a relationship with the first point. The Netherlands, together with Sweden, has tried to achieve in Europe that this rubber granulate was seen as a product such as the tiles of rubber granulate that you sometimes see in playgrounds to soften a possible fall of children. The Dutch Government considers it entirely logical that the standard for a product such as those tiles should be aligned with the standard for a "mix" in the terms of Europe, which is spread over artificial grass fields. However, we were alone in that. That's tricky. We also had insufficient evidence to reach a different conclusion. So we're collecting this evidence right now. This is done in Europe but also by RIVM in the Netherlands. The best thing would be if the investigation showed that it wasn't harmful. Then we have, quite rightly, been very busy and are not so bad. However, if there is reason to take steps, then for the first time we also have the material in our hands to do this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u6	I'd like to put the key question to the Secretary of State. We have seen in recent history, for example at Du Pont in Dordrecht, that something is emerging and potentially dynamite. You know that, however, until the investigation is complete. In some cases we have been thinking about asbestos for a long time 'what a great product', but in the end it does not turn out to be. I do not want to cause unnecessary panic; that is absolutely not my intention. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State what she's advising now. Does the Secretary of State now recommend total precaution? Will she advise the football clubs to keep everyone inside for a while? Will it recommend replacing the rubber granulate with, for example, cork as soon as possible? Or does she say: good showering is good enough for now? I think that the people who send their children back to the football field this weekend want as concrete advice as possible that fits the knowledge of today on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u7	Suggested: the children should be able to play football. By the way, good showering after exercising is a good motto anyway. This aside. On the basis of the studies carried out so far, I have to say that the results are well below the European standard, but also that they are partly above the consumer standard. That is precisely why we need the investigations that are being carried out now in order to determine whether we need to take another step towards making these football fields even safer. Moreover, I would point out that cork may also contain biocidal products. So that doesn't necessarily solve the problem. I ask for precision and the prevention of unnecessary fear. That message is important, but I also say here that the cabinet does not think that this is going to blow over or that this is not so serious. I think you should be on top of this in your administrative role as a precaution and know as much as possible in order to avoid saying in an X number of years: we should have intervened at that time. We can't let that happen. That's why we sail so sharply to the wind. I think it is also necessary to say that there is no reason to say that everyone should stay home this weekend, because that really goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u8	The PVV is also very concerned about the rubber grains on the artificial grass fields. We have put questions to the House about this. We can discuss standards for a long time, whether it is a consumer product or not, or about exposure. Wouldn't it be much wiser if the Secretary of State started a practical investigation? Look at children who have leukemia in the Netherlands. There are an average of 135 who are diagnosed with leukaemia a year. See if there's any connection to footballing on an artificial turf field. Then we'll know much faster if it's dangerous or not. If it's dangerous, shouldn't those fields be closed immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u9	For this reason, the Minister for Health asked RIVM a few weeks ago to carry out further research into the risk of exposure. Then you also get a picture of how people's health is affected. That is the question that Mrs Klever is asking and which we all want answered, but it is up to scientists to determine how they can best do that research. That's what we're waiting for. It won't be long now. I expect that investigation in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u10	I also think it is a worrying situation. Of course, our children should be able to play soccer, but they should be able to play soccer in a safe and healthy environment. I'd be happy to wait for the results of the RIVM. It must also be clear what it has to do with the health of our children. It appears to be carcinogenic substances with high concentrations. In that sense, I think it will take a long-term step. If the investigation shows that there is a serious risk to the health of our children, the Secretary of State should also come up with measures, such as a proposal which includes a ban. Does she also want to see in the short term what we can do about communication with parents? How can we inform them as well as possible about how to act in this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u11	In between: RIVM stands for Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu. Let us not talk in abbreviations, because all kinds of people in the public gallery do not know these abbreviations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u12	I will certainly record that with my colleague from VWS. Once we have the results of the research of the Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu, we need to communicate them properly, even if the reports prove to be correct. We must therefore be able to remove unrest. If it is necessary to act, we will do so, both in the short term and in the longer term. Source policy is also important for this. It would be nice if there were more and more bands in circulation that do not contain these types of toxic substances. The role of my department is to hunt that down. It also helps if consumers are aware that if they go for cheap tyres from China, they also buy the shit that's in there. If you're going for a good Dutch brand, I'm not advertising, I'm not allowed to do that either.You know that many of those bands often have better products. We have to drive those factories, so they're gonna do it. Ultimately, there are standards for all products, wherever they come from, whether from afar or from close range. The discussion is whether the standards for mixtures that apply to this granules, which are very high, in the sense that there is a great deal to be done, should be adjusted to the consumer standard that we also know for other products. The Dutch Government already had that position, so we do not deviate from that, but I hope that we will be able to obtain more support for that, because that will be badly needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u13	If you want to ask another question, then your group will have no further follow-up questions. I'll let you do that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u14	I have one supplementary question, which has also been put here. We've been talking about the artificial turf fields, but I'd like to have a broader look at what else this stuff is in. In this case, we need clear information on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u16	The Secretary of State refers to the RIVM investigation. This is indeed expected in December. However, December has yet to begin, even though it is already starting this week. The European Commission will present its findings in January. What do people have to do in the meantime? Where can they go for information? We get a lot of emails in our inbox in which people express their anxiety and anxiety. Is there a hotline or any other place where people can go for information?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u17	I can imagine that the US Secretary of State and I will send you a message on this very quickly. I have a feeling this will probably go through the same institution. On the site of that institute information is often given which is also known. The Minister himself made it clear earlier, including in her media statements, that you should not immediately have the idea that it is not safe to play football. I just said the kids can really play football this weekend. From a public health perspective, therefore, I cannot now come up with any further information. I assume there are all kinds of information points. I admit that we are still putting it in the picture, so that the Chamber also knows what it can refer to when it receives mails from concerned citizens. That seems logical and good to me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u18	You were going to do that very quickly, weren't you? How fast is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u19	This week. We can do it fast. It's existing information, so we can gather it for you in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u20	If it's not completely clear, I always ask exactly when.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u21	It doesn't get any clearer than "this week," Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u22	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u23	Well, that's pretty quick, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u24	My first question is what has been the role of the tyre manufacturers lobby. In the European context, the Netherlands has initially promoted stricter standards. The Netherlands stood alone, with Sweden, and lost the discussion. The Netherlands has agreed to do so. If you're really convinced that there's more to it, that it's risky stuff, can't you just accept it? Then you have to fight it, don't you? Why hasn't there been an investigation before? Why didn't that happen until after the broadcast of ZEMBLA? This is about the safety of the sports children. The question that lingers is: is it safe or is it not safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u25	That is a lot of assumptions and I also hear a single insinuation. I'd really like to throw it far away from me. As a precaution, the Netherlands has set itself the idea that it is better to treat this material as a product rather than as a mixture, because it automatically gives you better, stricter, standards. We're not rid of it, but we did lose it. It happens. It happens all the time. However, we knew that the European Commission was going to do more research. So there will be a new weighting moment to re-examine this. In the meantime, there are two things going on. There's a lot of research already. Much of that research so far has not shown that there are very large risks. However, I am pleased that ZEMBLA has paid attention to this issue. This gives us the opportunity to do so again to ask the RIVM to look at exposure and to fly it back from a different angle. This burden of proof together could lead to a stronger burden of proof, so that we can say at European level that it has to be different. However, it is also possible that those previous investigations prove to be correct. Then there will be another discussion. The commitment of the Netherlands has always been as follows: why should you treat something that already has a certain consumer standard in a product very differently when it is suddenly scattered across a field? It's a bit of technique, but it has nothing to do with lobbies. Personally, I'm never sensitive to that. Moreover, we already had this position. We didn't leave it, but we just didn't fight it for each other at the time. Sometimes it happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u26	This is an important subject. It is good that several parties have raised this issue and put written questions about it. I'm very curious about that investigation. I think we should wait and see; it should come in December. I sincerely hope that the outcome is black and white: either it is safe, or it is not safe. If not, there should be scenarios ready for how to deal with them. At the moment tens of thousands of children hop on such a field every weekend. We're being approached by people. Parents are worried. I therefore sincerely hope that the outcome will be black and white. Is the Secretary of State prepared to raise this again when she goes to Brussels for the Environment Council in December? Can it raise this issue there again? It can't be that this is only happening in the Netherlands. This plays a broader role in Europe. We may suddenly be forerunners, but we need to bring the other countries with us in order to get a black and white outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-2.u27	Sure. I think that's a very good idea. The Environment Council is very late this time in December. I hope that RIVM research, the research of the Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu, will succeed before that time. I will deal with it separately anyway, because it is good to inform my colleagues of our debate. I can well imagine that the same discussions in other countries may or may not ignite. I'm not a sports expert, but I understand that we have relatively many artificial turf fields. Of course, that is not the case throughout Europe. I have one final point. As I have just promised, I will send this in writing to the Chamber, but I understand that the RIVM website contains a list of questions and answers, as I say to Mrs Dijkstra. Concerned parents and others can thus find out exactly what is currently known and what they can do. So this information can be found on that list, but I will write it down for all those who are not here now or listening in.
