ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Article 68 of our Constitution reads as follows: "The Ministers and the Secretary of State shall give the Chambers, either orally or in writing, each individually and in a unified meeting, the information requested by one or more members, the provision of which shall not be contrary to the interests of the State." The Minister for Security and Justice should put this article above his bed. For the third time in a short time, he is standing here because he seems to be better at searching for information and not finding it, than correctly communicating it in matters to the Chamber. On 22 and 23 April, the Minister was very firm in his assessment of Professor Maat. He undertook to do research in the Chamber after saying that Professor Maat had been relieved of his duties. The results of that study were available in June. The research almost exonerated Professor Maat. What happened after that is easier to explain if you assume that everything was done to keep the report a secret. 'Cause pay attention. The Minister writes on 15 June that the investigation has been completed, but he does not answer the outstanding parliamentary questions. He doesn't say there were ten presentations, not just one. He does not say that the SD card containing the photos has been made available to the members of the research team for educational purposes. After the first round of parliamentary questions, in August, the Minister reports that he relies solely on the Chief Constable's letter, and does not say that Professor Maat should not see the investigation into himself. After the second round of parliamentary questions, the Chamber receives the list of presentations, but the Minister refuses to send the report on the police's investigation to the Chamber. The Chamber will receive a copy of the WOB a little later. I've got the transcript here and I'm showing it to the members now. When you browse through it, you see more blackened text than text that is not blacked out. It's called "informing the Chamber." I asked if extra ink cartridges were ordered by the Ministry. I'm still looking forward to the answer. Everything's blacked out. This goes on for a fact-finding. The Minister is going to have a secret conversation with Professor Maat. We have just received the release memo. The objective was to take the cold out of the sky and to ensure that MPs and the press stop talking about it. Furthermore, there was no need to apologize. Although the Minister has been informed three times that Members of Parliament think that there is a light between what is in the black text and what has happened, the Minister does not ask for the underlying piece all this time. After the third set of parliamentary questions, the Chamber will be given the document confidentially on 2 December. Professor Maat transferred it after he finally got access for the second time. The first time Mr Maat was given access, the first pieces that were exculpatory for him were kept away from his file. This is evident from the answers to Parliamentary questions from an hour ago. Why did that happen? So that even happened after he had access six months later. Six months has gone by. Six months Mr Maat has been refused access to the House of Representatives. That raises a lot of questions. Why did the Minister apologize last week? I thought he'd seen the information in October or December. What did he do when he read the story in December and sent it to the Chamber? Why didn't he do anything on December 2nd? Professor Maat had access to an incomplete file. Why wasn't he told? How come the exculpatory pieces were not available for Maat and he got less than an hour to see his file of more than a thousand pages? There appear to be three versions of the letter from Chief Constable Bouman to Director General Schoof on the results of the investigation. The first one's friendly. Professor Maat is not convicted at all and the relationship is not terminated. But after sending back and forth two times the letter between the police and the department, a very harsh conclusion has been added. All three versions have been sent to Shoof. Should the chief of police submit his letters to the government? And why were these changes proposed by the Ministry? Why does the Minister keep secretly informing the Chamber, even now? The fact story with incriminating phrases like "there has been no understanding of information" should simply have been made public. Why weren't the additional facts and the other documents public? What's in there? Why wasn't the minister informed in all this time that there was light? Why was the Minister not informed, despite four sets of parliamentary questions and despite the fact that it was his own actions, about a police investigation into his actions? Why didn't he look? Why wasn't he ever informed about the police investigation? Or did this happen secretly, but he just didn't want to know? Is the government prepared to have an external and independent investigation into the application of Article 68 of the Constitution in the short term? What matters should be public now? How do we handle WOB requests? This is specifically about this, but also about European agreements, receipts from criminals and facts-relazen. Now through the WOB we often get tons of internal e-mails, a bit too much, but the reports and the facts are kept secret. That has to be the other way around. Finally, what has the Minister learned? Does he understand his role as the Minister of Justice, who watches over the rule of law, about the importance of individual citizens not being victims of arbitrariness, but instead of having decent trials and a proper course of justice? First an investigation, then the conclusions; hear and hear again. Or is the Minister preparing his next apology?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u3	We are talking here about the study of the lecture given by Professor Maat last April. I believe that we are also talking about the impact of this reading on the victims' families. What effects could such a lecture have had on next of kin, especially at a time when everyone was still craving information on what might have happened to the victims? What is Mr Omtzig's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u4	This was a private lecture. Unlike Minister Timmermans' public appearance for millions of television viewers, this was a private lecture at a university. I agree with the conclusion that there should be a discussion within the LFTO on which lectures should be given when. That is a conclusion that is drawn by the police and I fully endorse it. It will show that people will be more reluctant to give these kinds of lectures. If that conclusion had been followed and the reading had not been made public, we would not have had a debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u5	Can I interpret this answer in such a way that Mr Omtzigt can understand well the emotions that are evoked when the world, in particular the next of kin, is confronted with the fact that images have been shown in a reading? That could cause pain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u6	My comments were not about the next of kin, with whom I very much sympathize. My comments were about hasty conclusions by many in the public debate, including the minister and then spokesmen of PvdA and VVD. They had already convicted Professor Maat before access to the facts existed. That is why we are having a debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. There we are again. Not to talk about the safety of the Netherlands or the rule of law, but about the way in which the minister wrongly openly damaged a professor and the fact that the minister did not correct this mistake but continued on the wrong road and gave the Chamber careless information. Why didn't this minister share the exculpatory conclusions with the Chamber much earlier, by himself? The Minister has waited far too long to apologize to Professor Maat and to inform the Chamber correctly. You don't deal with a professor like that, you don't deal with a single citizen like that, and you don't deal with the House of Representatives like that. It is mainly thanks to Mr Maat himself, my colleagues Omtzigt and Sjoerdsma and some journalists that we know exactly what is going on, and not thanks to the Minister. Against the minister, who tried to paint the truth with a thick felt marker, was the professor, who wrote the truth with a pencil. It's an embarrassing display. Open errors must be openly corrected, not confidentially and not with lacquered passages. On 22 April, the Minister called Mr Maat's actions "inappropriate" and "unsavory" without knowing exactly what happened. On 15 June the Minister informed the Chamber about Mr Maat's actions. He doesn't do that on the basis of the police investigation, but on the basis of a letter from the chief of police and then suddenly the terms "not discreet" and "not careful" appear. Those words are actually at odds with the police investigation. It states that the main cause is in the system and not in the person of Professor Maat. So the question arises as to how exactly the Chief Constable's letter came about. Is it true that the Minister was in close consultation with the police summit to get harsh accusations to Maat in the letter? Are we dealing with a minister who writes a letter from the police to himself? There are talks with Professor Maat and there are parliamentary questions from colleagues, but there are still no bells ringing at the minister's office. Does he even want to know what's going on, or does he hope it blows over? On 12 October, the Chamber will be referred to the report. My colleague Omtzigt just showed me that. 90% of them are blackened. Has the Minister seen these wobbled pieces himself? And more importantly, who decided at exactly what time and on what grounds to paint these passages in black? Has there been any discussion about that? Can the Minister provide access to that? It is not until 2 December that the Minister officially knows what the report says. Isn't that richly late? But even if that is the case, the Minister knows on 2 December that a professor was unjustly dragged through the mud. And what happens? Nothing. Why not? Why didn't the minister fix his mistakes immediately? What would have happened if Mr Maat had not taken six hours to write everything with pencil and prove it wrong of the Minister? It seems that we owe it mainly to Mr Maat's perseverance that the House of Representatives was finally properly informed. There have been many times when the Minister should have and could have taken his responsibility. Not cleaning up his own street should be his first priority, but making and implementing good policies and treating people respectfully. We need to be able to rely on the accuracy and completeness of the information we receive. A well-functioning rule of law needs a minister who always wants to have the truth on the table, even if that truth is uncomfortable to him. Justice must be at the forefront and not the image of the minister. The truth is not an option, but the starting point for a minister who serves the rule of law. What is the Minister going to do to restore confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. Apologies. For the umpteenth time, I apologize. This minister apologized to Professor Maat, whose reputation was almost crushed. He also apologized to the Chamber, which asked for information, but received black-painted documents. The integrity of a renowned pathologist, who has identified many MH17 victims, has been damaged. The lecture with photos was judged too quickly. Apologies are in order, but not just for unfair qualifications. Facts that Professor Maat exonerated seem to have been deliberately ignored. It was only after the facts became public that the Minister apologized, but only for his first statements and not for the dismissal and reputational damage. That only happened because Professor Maat himself managed to reveal the facts. It only happened because Professor Maat wrote everything over with a pencil for six hours. Without Professor Maat's monks' work, the Minister's apology would never have been made. That is a painful observation. We asked the Minister when he knew the facts. His answer was: "From 2 December, the file can be counted among my knowledge." Let that sentence go through your head for a while. "From 2 December, the file can be counted among my knowledge." The Minister did not know what the facts were until 2 December, but that did not prevent him from taking action against Professor Maat. However, the Minister knew that there were different views within the police organisation about the performance of Professor Maat and the termination of the cooperation. The minister knew this, but he hasn't done anything with it all this time. Four times the Chamber asked the Minister for the facts. Three times the Minister was informed that members of parliament suspected that the investigation of the facts was inconsistent with his conclusions. The media tried it through WOB requests. Still the minister didn't want to know the seam of the stocking, as if he didn't want to know the facts. I ask the Minister how he reflects on his own actions. I'm asking because there's been a story of the general commanders all along. They note that the main cause is the operation of the police. The charging of Professor Maat alone goes too far. Measures are needed at system level, not at individual level. The Minister must reconsider the measures against Maat. That also raises questions about the letter from Chief Constable Bouman, because that letter had three versions. The first version actually did not contain any conclusions and had no consequences for Professor Maat. The latest version is hard, both in the opinion of Professor Maat and in the conclusion: the cooperation is terminated. These three letters were agreed with the Minister's Ministry. Why is that? Why was that last version suddenly hard? In reply to the one-after-last set of parliamentary questions, the Minister pointed out that his ministry only asked two clarifying questions. I would like to read out such a clarifying question. "The observations in the letter are not reflected in the follow-up concerning Professor Maat. But then what's the follow-up? For example: do not use his services, contract terminated." Is that clarifying or is that perhaps a little steering? Now that the monkey is out of the bag, the Minister says that in October, he should have asked for the unpainted documents, assessed them independently and sent them to the Chamber in confidence. He added immediately that the judgment of the general commanders had made no difference. The Minister therefore still considers that Professor Maat has not acted discreetly and not carefully. I'd like to get a reaction to that. The Minister has an active duty to inform the Chamber on the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution, as Mr Omtzigt pointed out. That is not an opportunity transparency if it is to be delivered to this minister. It's his ministerial responsibility. MPs don't have to be part-time detectives to find out the truth. It is up to the Minister to put that truth on the table. Doesn't the Minister think he should have sent the documents to the Chamber in public? What interest of the State is served by this confidentiality? A yellow card, a motion of censure and now the case of Professor Maat; I await the answer by this minister with more than average interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. Today, no doubt, family members and friends of victims of the MH17 disaster will also be watching this debate. I wonder who they feel most offended by in the aftermath of the disaster. We will hear the Minister about this later, but I would like to put the debate back in the context that it was about. The subject has brought heartbreaking sorrow to almost all Dutch and also heartwarming compassion. Many of my colleagues and also members of the cabinet have been present at the return of the remnants of the victims. That was a very worthy process and it was appreciated by many people that we could do so in the Netherlands. Then it turns into something I can only call 'an ugly debate'. We must have that debate as a House of Representatives, but this is the third time that this Minister has made mistakes. We talk too often in this Chamber about this minister's mistakes. A few months ago, we all said to each other: never more such debates as the debates on the Tevendeal and also on Volkert van der G. So now there is another debate and then there is another debate on this subject. In all honesty: when I saw the news item, I was also sitting upright on the couch. I thought, "How is it possible that such a professor would give lectures about an identification process in public and show photos in addition?" Now, however, we know from the police report that Professor Maat was doing the right thing. It seems, above all, that the Minister first called very loudly and did not investigate this until a long time later and took note of the investigations that were there. He sniffed at Professor Maat with the words "extremely inappropriate and distasteful." And mate had to leave right away. The image is that Minister Van der Steur deliberately eliminated all the facts that did not fit in with his first, too hasty judgment. My colleagues also asked: had we ever known this if Professor Maat hadn't taken the time to write all this down? Would it have ever come up? I would like an answer from the Minister. I assume the Minister also read the story following the faction research Professor Maat before informing the Chamber on 15 June 2015 that Maat "does not exercise the discretion and care that can be expected of a scientist who advises LTFO on this matter." That statement, as we know by now, is absolutely not in line with the police report. It states: "The measures taken in response to the RTL4 publication have taken place without a proper understanding of the facts." Maat has not deviated from a clear standard or agreement, for there were no such agreements. It is not possible to separate the entire operation of the police at that point in time. In the police report, the police department is advised to make it clear in the communication that it was not only Professor Maat who was responsible for what happened during the lecture. After all, there were no rules. On 9 June 2015, Chief Constable Bouman sent a draft letter to the department. There was no evil word in it about mate. Bouman gets the letter back and then writes a new version and then another one. It's incriminating for Maat. How'd that go? Did the Minister have a personal hand in this? Did Bouman know the police report was on the contrary? What has changed in successive concepts? Next, how does the Minister judge his own role? Should he have informed the Chamber sooner and more honestly? If so, at what times? Why have exculpatory facts been wiped out? Does the Minister still have a clear view of Article 68 of the Constitution? Can he explain that again? Was the Minister ever planning to confess his prematureness in this process? If so, when? We appreciate that the Minister finally apologized to Maat, but what were they offered for? Was that for his harsh words towards Mate? Was that for painting away what was uncomfortable? Was that before the discussion of the draft letters, in which the facts were violated? Was that for his lack of effort to get the facts straight? What kind of things did the Minister say "sorry" for? Is he also willing to apologize to the Chamber for having to inform the Chamber differently and earlier? So, again, these are major problems for this minister. It's the third time. Only after a lot of pressure and many questions follows a "sorry." Much more often, in this file, officials, the police and the Public Prosecutor are blamed. As I said before, it seems a bit like the Minister is calculating. If this is not the case, I would like to hear an explanation of how this could have happened. Depending on what someone else knows, a little bit is admitted. The other one knows a little more, and then they admit a little more. When does the Minister learn that there is a pattern here and that this is bad for the reputation of the Justice Department, for that large unified ministry, that it is bad for the supervisory function of the Chamber and that it is bad for the functioning of himself? It would be useful for this minister if he were to count to ten next time our mothers taught us all that after that, we would then get the relevant facts together and then inform the Chamber, something I attach great importance to. If the minister had done that, he wouldn't have flown off the bend so quickly in the media either. So first, fully inform the Chamber and then media appearances. It would be a nice thing for us if the Minister could give it to the Chamber. After all, no one is waiting for a minister of black markers and premature conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. When RTL reported on Professor Maat's lecture for Limburg students in April 2015, the indignation was great. The Netherlands was impressed by the respectful manner in which victims of the airplane disaster were treated, who doesn't remember that long mourning procession on empty highways, but now it seemed that respect and restraint left. Even now, I still believe that a lecture for health science students and any other interested student showing pictures of the remains of victims of the MH17 is undesirable. This is particularly true if, as in one case, there is a number that can be traced back to a well-known individual and a participant in the investigation talks about possible causes of the disaster, well before the investigation is completed. Knowledge must be shared, but the way it is done must be better thought out. What also needs to be done is that this matter is properly sorted out, especially when it comes to the role of an individual, in this case Professor Maat. That didn't happen. When he was just Minister, the Minister reacted directly and firmly to an undesirable situation. However, a minister is expected to remain silent in the choir of indignation until it is determined exactly what is going on. Then it had become clear that Professor Maat was only a limited debt to that. The internal memo of the police is therefore quite right to say: "Entameer always conducts a fact-finding investigation in similar situations with hearing and hearing before declaring measures." The Minister has fortunately and rightly apologized to Professor Maat for this, after he had previously reversed measures against Maat. It is a good thing that he did, it is a pity that this happened so late, only after pressure from Professor Maat himself and the House of Representatives. Then I'll go into the information to the Chamber. The fact that this discussion is again so soon after the debate on the report of the Oosting Committee is painful. It shows that the Ministry is not yet in order. On this point, too, the Minister has rightly put on the rug. He gave the Chamber the police's WOB file in October 2015 without looking at it himself. In doing so, he has ignored the fact that the disclosure of information to the Court in all openness can only be made on the basis of State interest; the WOB has wider grounds for refusal. So the Minister should have taken a test of his own. He would have seen that the coating of 80, 85 and sometimes, I read, even 90% of the text was absolutely unnecessary, even if you take the view that official opinions are of state interest. After all, the starting point must be that only the minimum is secret. By not reading the police report himself, he only relied on the translation of this report, made by the police chief and the police chief of the National Unit in two letters. It is precisely in those letters that the conclusion regarding Professor Maat was not taken up. The Minister states that the decisions were made by the Chief Constable, not himself. I have a few more questions about that. 1. In a passage that has been covered in the police's WOB file, it says: by order of the minister, the cooperation has ended. What's the deal with that? After all, the Minister states elsewhere that it was on the charge of the Chief Constable. 2. When exactly did this minister read the basic report, the investigatory report, himself? Was that December 2nd of last year or earlier? 3. Has there been any influence from the Ministry on the Chief of Staff's conclusion that deviated from the investigation report? In the opinion of my group, it is clear that things in the Ministry are not yet in order. At least in October of last year, the Ministry still did not work on the basis of "open unless." The Minister is responsible for this. He has expressed his ambition on this point on several occasions, but he must now actually resolve it. How's he gonna do that? Furthermore, I also see this incident in the light of a too large ministry of V&J. "The span of control": there has been discussion, chairman, about whether you should use words like this in the Chamber. Let me put it this way: the size of the ministry, of what you are all responsible for, is too large.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u11	I would like to put an enlightening question to Mr Recourt. He speaks explicitly about the functioning of the Ministry and of officials, but his questions are actually about what the Minister should have done. I do not want to talk about guilt, but why does Mr Recourt at least place some of the burden of proof in the Ministry at the moment? It has become clear from previous cases that there are some things that are not right there, but why does Mr Recourt choose to look so explicitly at the Ministry in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u12	The reason for this is that the Minister is responsible for everything, because that is the ministerial responsibility. In order to weigh that responsibility, it is of course important for the Chamber to know that it was a matter of knowingly and knowingly. In that case, the weighting is different than when certain things happen properly or not. The Minister is directly responsible for this in the Chamber, but in such a case there is another weighting. I'm looking at what happened to the police and the ministry, and what the minister's role was. If you have all the facts, you can weigh up the Minister's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you for this clarification. The first part of Mr Recourt's text was mainly about what the Minister knew, when he knew, why he didn't ask and what exactly was going on with the letter from Chief Constable Bouman to the Ministry and therefore also to the Minister. I hope, however, that we can conduct the debate on who has done what purely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u14	I fully agree with that, and that is why I emphasised it. Previous speakers said the Minister took the measure against Professor Maat. I am asking who did this, because the Minister himself says that it was not him, while it is in the painted pieces. So we have to figure out the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u15	At one point, I might be able to help. We got pieces today. I am referring to the internal note of 9 July, which was sent to the Minister personally shortly after the police investigation. It sets out several options for what the Minister can do with the police investigation. Mr Omtzigt had then announced questions to the House. The options range from "we ask the police to tell us again about the situation" to "we ask for everything now and inform the Chamber as soon as possible"; the latter is the other, extreme option. The latter has not been chosen. But that letter was addressed to the minister. What does Mr Recourt say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u16	First of all, this says that there is a great openness at the moment. I welcome the fact that these kind of internal notes come out and are shared with the Chamber, but you will immediately see the vulnerability of them. Officials must be able to give their opinions freely. They must be able to say: pay attention, this is the spectrum within which to choose. After that, they should be able to advise A or C. I cannot say at this time and on the basis of this information that the Minister personally instructed that the Chamber should never be informed. I don't know how that went and that's why I asked my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u17	It needs to be a little sharper. Of course, it is good that we can see that, at the moment, after everything that has happened, there is transparency. That must have taken three-quarters of a year. Mr Recourt said that the ministry is far too large, and that is what I am concerned about. That is a well-known criticism, which we share. But now it's about the responsibility of the minister himself. We don't know exactly what the minister knew at what time. That is why we are having this debate now, and that is why we are asking our questions. We now have a very clear piece, addressed to the Minister personally, which states: you can choose. Apparently, the Minister did not choose the option of transparency at the time, so tell the Chamber what is going on. How does Mr Recourt judge the Minister's responsibility in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u18	That is clearly the responsibility of the Minister. It is not clear to me how to weigh this matter; I would first like to have heard the Minister's answers. Maybe he thought this was primarily a police matter or maybe there were other arguments, I don't know. I'm speculating, but that's always very dangerous. That's why I prefer to hear it from the Minister, and then I can judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u19	The criticism of the Ministry, namely that it would be too big and that the police would have to go back to the Interior, is now agreed; we share that criticism. But that can't be an argument in this case, can it? The Minister has personally, from the outset, made statements. It was a sensitive file. The Chamber has constantly asked questions about this. Then you can't say it was all a bit difficult because the ministry is big?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u20	In part, I agree with you. The Minister has indeed expressed his views on this from the outset, both in the media and through parliamentary questions. It is clear from the Minister's replies that he passed on that WOB request to the Chamber at once from the police organisation. He says that that was wrong, because he had not realized that he had to make a decision on the basis of the Constitution and not on the basis of the Public Administration Act. This may indicate that the Ministry did not have a note or note with: beware, Minister, you cannot simply forward this. At least I can see it in that light. This minister is responsible for many dossiers and for more than 100,000 employees, which means that he must be well fed. If there had been a note saying, "Watch out, this is Article 68 and not about the WOB," then the Minister probably had a bigger problem than now, because I suspect 'but we're going to hear 'we didn't have a note like that. That is why I think there has been a lack of alertness on this point. The Minister is responsible for this, but it is also important that the Ministry is so large that not all the information and alerts that should be sent to the Minister have actually reached him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u21	That is very difficult to accept. What if we did get the Minister's answer that there was no note on top of it with a choice, although Mr Van Nispen now says that in some cases the Minister had a choice? On this dossier, with so much sensitivity and also personal statements by the Minister, is that answer very difficult to maintain? It is not the case, then, that we should say: that it is heavy and that it is so? That is a very difficult relationship between the Minister and the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u22	However, I think this is the balance. The Minister writes: I have passed on the police's WOB file to the Chamber, and I should not have done so, because I should have made my own assessment. I'm assuming this is true. I'll have to consider how serious that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u23	The Minister admits that he would not have been able to inform the Chamber on the basis of the WOB, so that we could have become journalists on the basis of the Constitution. On this basis, the obligation to provide information is really a little more extensive. What did the Labour Party think when she printed this out on 12 or 13 October and thought, "Hey, we're getting information here?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u24	I have to be honest, I wouldn't know. Because I didn't see that report at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u25	This was published extensively in the media, with photos everywhere. When did it become clear to the Labour Party that this could not be the way of communication?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u26	I find it difficult to speculate on this too. One: it only became clear to me recently, namely when I started interfering with this dossier. Two: the moment you get a very black piece, you can't figure out if it's not right. Maybe it was justified. You're wondering, but it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u27	Proceed, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u28	May I ask a supplementary question? When Mr Recourt reads the black piece, he sees that things with headlines such as 'conclusions','recommendations' and 'facts' are blacked out. That certain witness statements are not fully printed, I understand; I think it could have been more, but okay. But when Mr Recourt read that, he thought: huh, fact story all black? Wasn't he like: we need this as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u29	I repeat that this discussion when I read it was much further and we already had the report at that time, namely confidential. I agree with Mr Omtzigt that facts do not fall within the public interest. But you're not sure what's underneath; of course that's the whole dilemma. But honour is due: Mr Omtzigt and Mr Sjoerdsma have quite rightly pushed through on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u30	I would like to ask one last question on this point. Why did my colleague from the PvdA say this came to the Chamber so late? Is that understandable in the consideration of the PvdA, or is it actually, as GroenLinks said in his contribution, far too late? Shouldn't that have been placed in the Lower House much earlier, in all openness?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yes, but you can discuss "in all openness." The Minister himself says that he considers internal administrative advice to be a matter of state interest, so that there would still have been a part of it black. But at least it could have been a whole lot whiter, and also earlier. The lacquered file came in October and it was made confidential in November. That time in between wasn't necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u32	So the PvdA shares with GroenLinks that the Minister made a rather fundamental mistake, by informing the House of Representatives too late and too briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u33	I have already said a few times that I think it was a mistake that the Minister did not look at the dossier himself and did not realise that it was a different review framework from that used by the police in the context of the WOB request. That's the mistake. Mr President, I would like to look at what point I am going to make in my speech, even in view of the time. I would like to make two more general points, which are linked to the case-mate. The first point is that the police investigation concludes that there is no regulation on giving lectures on such sensitive matters and that there is a tension between giving information to share and deepen knowledge on the one hand and the importance of survivors on the other. I assume that the recommendations in the report will be followed on this point. How's that going? What about last April's request for part of the next of kin to stop showing images to third parties during the identification process? As far as I am concerned, this problem is broader than just the tension between education and privacy. Pictures of Theo van Gogh and Pim Fortuyn after they were murdered are also clearly in my mind. In these cases, freedom of news is opposed to the importance of the survivors and to the memory of the deceased. Privacy protection stops when life stops and portrait law offers no protection here. I ask the Minister to find out how we can safeguard this latter interest and strike a good balance with the other interests that have just been mentioned. I also ask him to inform the Chamber by letter. Then I come to my second general point. We must not talk about this if we are to be in a position of conflict when it comes to making documents available to the public. The Chamber may wonder why this should be done in confidence. The Minister can say that this is necessary in view of the state interest, but that we may be able to discuss it in secret. In that case, who has the last word, I wonder. I think that is the Chamber, but the question is how the Chamber can be transparent in that decision. In order to avoid accidents, shouldn't we come up with a procedure to deal with this? Finally. There has been a lecture on the identification of victims of the MH17 where insufficient account has been taken of next of kin. Let us at least be the result of this debate, which will not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u34	Madam President. It is not the first time we have had a difficult debate with the Minister of Security and Justice. This time, the matter of size is the cause. The Minister has made harsh statements about Mr Maat and the college he has given and those statements seem to have been too harsh. I understand the Minister has responded with emotion to the issue of the MH17. Several Members of Parliament have done the same, we must say in all honesty. The Minister undoubtedly had the family members on the retina. For them, the coverage of Professor Maat's college has, of course, been painful. However, this minister could have been expected to do something different as a ruler, especially now that it has been a long-standing issue for months. The Minister therefore rightly apologized to Professor Maat last week. At least as serious is the way in which the Chamber was informed in the period between the Minister's ruling and now. Since that incident, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Sjoerdsma have intimately asked the Minister to share all the information with the Chamber, in particular the police investigation into the issue. In October, we got that investigation, but it was 85% black. It is thanks to Mr Maat who went out with a pencil for satisfaction, that we know what was behind that black paint. A very different picture about the Maat issue, an image that forced the Minister to apologize. I have a number of questions concerning this course of action. Has the cooperation with Professor Maat ended on the instructions of the Minister, as the facts say, or not, as the Minister writes in answers to parliamentary questions? Why did the Minister act before 2 December without knowing the facts? He answered Parliamentary questions, made statements and spoke with Professor Maat, all of which was not fully aware of the facts. How is that possible? How can the Minister maintain that all black-painted pieces of text affect the interest of the State? Colleagues have already asked detailed questions about this which I would like to join. Moreover, the Minister does not recognise that he initially sent a WED document to the Chamber, while the Court has a wider right to information under the obligation to provide information. The Minister shifts the decision on painting to the police, but he is fully responsible for sending such information to the Chamber. In fact, the police have proposed to the minister an accompanying letter in which Professor Maat is not convicted. Eventually, after the Ministry interfered, it became a letter in which Professor Maat is accused. How is that possible? Was the minister himself involved? Did he know about it? Was he aware of the different versions of that letter? The whole process suggests that information has been deliberately withheld to cover the Minister's statements. That suggestion must be removed in today's debate. The question is whether this minister had apologized without Professor Maat and his pencil. Before the debate, we received a memo from September, in which the Minister is advised not to apologize, but to express his views because of 'feelings'. The picture is that the Minister has apologized against will and thanks, because it really could not be otherwise. What does this mean for trust in the government? Now it happened to be a persistent professor, but what does this incident say about the confidence that ordinary citizens, who are less ad brake and assertive, can have in the honesty of the government when it comes to it? This is a bad signal. For the Christian Union Group, it is important that we can assume that the Chamber receives all the information it is entitled to and that citizens are treated fairly. That shouldn't depend on an assertive professor with a pencil and a notepad. That is the confidence we must have in this minister in the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr. Chairman. Wrong after wrong. Blunder after blunder. Miss after miss. In ten months, Minister van der Steur went through the dust three times. Even his predecessor couldn't do that. As with the Volkertfoto and the Teevendeal, crucial information is withheld in the Maat case. Once again, the ministry blacked out essential passages. The Chamber was silenced in no time. Not the ministry, but the professor and the media made it public. Why did the Minister do everything in his power to keep this matter a secret? Should reputational damage be prevented? Would there have been any excuses if Professor Maat hadn't transferred the report? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. A pattern is emerging in this minister: first a very long period of silence, then apologize and point to mistakes made by his officials and policemen. But a minister who thus shifts his own responsibility is not worth a snipe in the face. It is not for nothing that the voter's confidence in Minister Van der Steur has reached a low point. Of all the rulers, he scores the lowest with a 3.2. That is even lower than his predecessor, Opstelten, just before his resignation. That is a fact that cannot be painted black.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr. Chairman. Last April...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr Segers has already interrupted us. Tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u38	Certainly, Madam President. It concerns statements in this morning's newspaper on this matter by a colleague of Mr Van Oosten, not as a spokesperson. I would like to know if he spoke on behalf of the VVD Group. Mr. Teeven called Professor Maat a left-wing droopy professor. Was that on behalf of the VVD Group or was that in a personal capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u39	I would like to answer: Fred is Fred. If I answer you directly through your chairman, I will say the following. What Mr Teven said yesterday would not have been my words. But what I want to do in my questions to the Minister and in my contribution to the Chamber is to make a bridge to what I understand, namely that at the VVD, and I suppose also to the Minister and indeed to all of us, the interests of the next of kin, the interests of the victims, are constantly at the forefront. That also touches us deeply. That's why people make emotional statements and sometimes they do it a little too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u40	Sometimes just a little too fast. We have a situation here in which a professor who has been apologized to, and who is asking for reparation, is being played out against the position of victims. Is that right? Is that indeed how the VVD Group looks at Professor Maat, that he is facing victims and that you have to make a choice between one of the two groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u41	There is no question of making a choice, but it is real dealing with the impact of such a lecture, given by Professor Maat and subsequently published through RTL4, on relatives and victims last year. I would like to explain this in my speech at a moment's notice, however it may seem to me, as a spokesman. That also makes me understand why Mr Teven said what he said yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u42	I see Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Sjoerdsma. I would suggest that Mr Van Oosten speaks first. It is about this point, but Mr Van Oosten keeps saying that he is going to say something about it in his speech. Then I'll give you some space to say something. Mr. Sjoerdsma, would you mind interrupting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr President, Mrs Van Tongeren was earlier. I think it would be wise to continue with this, since the point has now been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u44	Well, very briefly, then. I would also like to give the opportunity to Mr van Oosten to do his story. That has also been the case with you, and so has Mr Van Oosten. Mrs. Van Tongeren, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u45	I want to be able to do a normal interruption on this subject. It's the same thing that's just been touched. In this Chamber it is customary to do it all, if you have a question at the same point. That's why I'm coming forward now. The question is whether I should do it in a normal interruption, or whether you would prefer me to wait until that point has been reached in Mr Van Oosten's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u46	Let me take a look at Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u47	I do not prevent questions from Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u48	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren. I thought Mr Van Oosten would come back to this subject, but if that is not the case, Mrs Van Tongeren can now ask her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u49	I may also be seen as left-wing and dreary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u50	You recognize it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u51	So that's why I thought: I'm just checking what's best for Mr Van Oosten here. So we understand first that we have a minister who says that he has reacted too quickly and emotionally, and now we have a member of the VVD, from whom Mr Van Oosten says that he has also reacted too quickly and too emotionally. I would like to ask Mr Van Oosten what his own opinion is on what I would call impulse control at the VVD. Feels like kicking me. Is this really necessary? Could Mr Van Oosten perhaps distance himself from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u52	That is what I am trying to say in response to questions that your colleague has just asked me. I understand very well what the Minister has said, and I also understand very well what Mr Teven has said. Do you know why? Because a plane was shot out of the sky in which 298 people were killed, including 196 Dutch. Beloveds have been ripped away for no reason. A very careful process has been set up and then these relatives are confronted with a reading and its impact. We must now talk about this impact again. I understand very well that people feel affected by it and really want to stand up from the deepest emotion for the interests of the victims and the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u53	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u54	So many months after that, you smear someone who's spent his whole life trying to give final clarity to the next of kin. It is someone who has traveled all over the world and spent his life among the dead more than among the living, precisely to give those relatives clarity. It can no longer have happened in the moment of emotion, because this reaction of Mr Van Oosten's group colleague was given to the media many months after that. Can Mr Van Oosten distance himself from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u55	In Mrs Van Tongeren's questions, she actually asks me for a qualification from Professor Maat. Let me be very clear about this: Professor Maat is of a gigantic stature, he has done great work in identifying bodies after the disaster with the MH17, after the fireworks disaster, after several atrocities at home and abroad. But besides that, something else happened. I have heard this from a number of other speakers, and I would like to emphasise that. I have no choice but to emphasise that. That same Professor Maat gave a lecture in which you still have to ask yourself whether that was the time and if it was the presentation it was supposed to be, given the impact it certainly had on the next of kin and who probably still has it. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr Teeven of the VVD said yesterday that Professor Maat is a left-wing, dreary professor who wants to be right. I do not want to hear these stories from Mr Van Oosten, because we all felt it was a terrible day for the next of kin, as we all stressed in our initial reactions. I do not think that Mr Van Oosten has the exclusive right to do so. I would now like to know whether he distances himself from the words of his colleague or whether he understands and embraces them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u57	I have already told you that I understand very well why my colleague, Mr Teven, has said what he has said, with the intention of defending the interests of the victims. If you had given me the opportunity to explain, I would have also tried to explain that I understand why the Minister said what he said. I hope to have that opportunity from the President in due course. That does not alter the fact that a minister is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u58	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u59	It really saddens me to see that this VVD representative just doesn't answer. Then let me ask him another question. What is the VVD's opinion on what Mr Timmermans, who was then Minister, said in a talk show about mouth caps?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u60	I have to say, however, that this is another issue on this issue. I'd like to have said that. This also applies, especially since it was a minister, that it was appropriate to exercise extreme care and diligence in what they say. That's exactly what happened in this case. If Mr Sjoerdsma wishes to do so, we can, of course, bring this discussion up again. We can discuss this extensively in this Chamber and put things back in the media everywhere. The question then is whether that will take us further. I am seriously asking myself that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u61	Mr. Chairman. One more point on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u62	Only if it's a personal fact, I really want to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u63	It is now being pretended as Members of Parliament I feel only plurally addressed to resurrect something. The opposite is the case. Members of Parliament have had to do everything in their power to find out the truth here, and I can tell you, Mr van Oosten, that your party has done nothing to find out the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u64	I do not understand very much of Mr Van Oosten's answers so far. He said that Mr. Teeven, out of emotion for the victims, called Professor Maat a left-wing and dreary professor. Mr Van Oosten says: I understand that. Then I must ask him to explain to us again how you stand up for the interests and emotions of victims by calling Professor Maat a left-wing and dreary professor. I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u65	That's what I'm trying to do. It would not have been my words either, but you ask me to reflect on words spoken by a colleague of mine. All I can say is this. If I try to move in the emotion behind that statement, if I give Mr Teeven a little credit, and I can, because he is a colleague of mine, then I know one thing about him, namely that he has constantly put victims and relatives first. That's what I see in this minister's office. That does not make the choice of words from one person to another, but things are clearly put down. That's what happened. That's what I read back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u66	I still don't see what Professor Maat did wrong and what led to an emotion among Mr Teven, who eventually forced him to pronounce the words that he is a left-wing and dreary professor. I do not understand why Mr Van Oosten does not simply distance himself from that. Between the lines, he seems to be doing that. Then just say it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u67	I also pointed out at the same time the enormous stature of Professor Maat and the fantastic work he has done and is still doing. That does not mean, however, that this reading, which I really stand for, as it has happened, at that time, with that target group, with the material shown, etc., has had an impact that has caused suffering, is painful and has caused enormous unrest. I do not think that is right, nor do I think it is in the interests of the next of kin. So I understand that even now people say: well, if I relate that to the belief that I have intrinsically desired to protect those relatives and those victims, then I understand that. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u68	I have the impression that we hear the same question in different forms and so does the answer, so we are repeating ourselves a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u69	It is indeed a repetition, but of course it is also very special when you use these words in such a case, in such a debate that is going on. If you're gonna say this one day in advance, you're gonna ask for it. I find it a disgrace that relatives of the MH17 are involved in this and that such a remark is laundered under the pretext that we do it for the victims. That's a real shame; you can't do that. Let me explain a little bit of why you can't do that. I've worked with the police for 30 years. The work of a pathologist is very important, especially for the next of kin. That's the kind of man they'd scoff at. It has been said: it is a left-wing, dreary intellectual. What's that supposed to mean? You just can't do that. Such a man is very important to the next of kin. Just such a man is important to the relatives of the victims of the disaster with the MH17. I would like to say the following to Mr Van Oosten. Be a man and just say, "I'm gonna distance myself from that." Let Fred Teeven have the hiccups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr Bontes did not ask a question, but gave a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u71	Mr President, I also find it rather embarrassing what is happening here. Mr van Oosten constantly stressed the need to defend the interests of victims and survivors. That's what we all do here. Mr Van Oosten says that he finds it annoying that we should debate this now because it may hurt people again. The fact that we have to debate this now has three people already to blame. In any case, the Minister is to blame. It has begun, by making statements that were not based on anything. Then it took him three-quarters of a year to put that right. That is why we are having this debate here today. Can Mr Van Oosten respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u72	It is quite right that we should have a debate today. A number of colleagues have quite rightly asked questions. I, too, have questions which I would like to put in my contribution. It is therefore quite right that there should be a debate on this issue. Mr Van Nispen does not hear me about this at all. Let me be as clear about that as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u73	Please continue with your speech, Mr van Oosten. I think you should get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u74	Yes. By the way, I have already made a few comments which I would have liked to make in my contribution. Let me briefly outline the situation we are talking about. We are talking about a lecture given in April last year. It was a lecture, as we now understand from the pieces, which differed somewhat on parts from the so-called basic presentation. Photos were shown that could be traced back to the person. There were body parts to be seen. There was talk of what I call "criminal aspects." They're outside Professor Maat's field of work. We are talking about a lecture 'a chat', read in the pieces 'which was so about the disaster with the MH17, a disaster in which, I just said, a huge number of victims have been killed. This also happened at a time when the cabinet, of course, made every effort to ensure that the trial was conducted as carefully as possible, precisely because of the interests of those relatives, of those victims. In that light, I really do understand the emotion that overwhelmed the minister. That's what I'm trying to tell my colleagues. I mean, the minister is just a human being. At least that's how I see him. Of course, this minister doesn't want anything other than to protect those victims. At least I assume it could have been nothing but that. That also explains why the Minister said what he said. How bad is it actually someone to take that this has been said, if that's why it's been said? But, I also say, what should happen if it turns out, after that investigation, that Professor Maat in general can give a presentation? And it turns out it is now. There were more lectures given on the basis of such a basic presentation. It has also been shown that clear frameworks, or whatever you want to call them, were missing. If that proves to be the case, it would be appropriate for a minister of security and justice to apologize for the statements he made in April, overwhelmed by emotion. Then it suits the Minister to apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u75	I have a question for you. That was not apparent from the documents, but it was only when the Chamber asked for them. If it had been up to the minister, it wouldn't have been apparent from those documents at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u76	No, that is why I am also saying, in response to a number of questions from colleagues, that it is also thanks to colleagues, who have continued to ask for this information, that we are talking about it today. That was already discussed before. This is the result of this. What I constantly try to point out is that I really understand why those statements were made by the Minister as they were made. I even understand that even today people feel the same emotion in relation to the relatives and victims and therefore say what they say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u77	It is now being suggested that something should not have been said at first in a rush of emotion and that, when the facts were known, the minister was admitted to be wrong. That is not the case. The Minister didn't apologize until the Chamber forced him to make the report public. When Professor Maat did that himself, when there was no other choice, an apology was made. That's not equestrian, it's done of its own accord.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u78	You are not asking me a question, but you are giving a reading. Well, I guess I'll just have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u79	I get the impression that Mr Van Oosten is trying to justify the fact that the Minister has misinformed the Chamber and incompletely. I'd like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u80	The only thing I've been trying to do over the last few minutes in which I've been allowed to speak here is to say that I understand that emotion so well. You all understand that, because we can't imagine anything more terrible. Then it is perfectly normal for this minister, faced with this suffering, to say what he said? But it's also perfectly normal that, if that investigation took place, you make that apology. What doesn't take away, by the way, is sorry for my somewhat long answer, which is that I don't think Professor Maat can be blamed at all. That is why I think it is quite right that I do not read this as such in the Minister's letter last year, nor in the Minister's letter last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u81	Finally, Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u82	Once again, I believe that the emotion of the victims is being used to wrongly inform the Chamber by the Minister of the negligence, the sloppyness, the wrong information and the right to speak. That really bothers me in this discussion. That is a remark to which Mr Van Oosten may be able to respond, but in sincerity and not with a whole wall of words which is not really pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u83	I think a lot of victims are listening. So I would very much like this debate to be conducted in a dignified manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u84	That's what I want. That is why I would like to respond very briefly. I understand the emotion that gets people caught. I understand that it makes statements as they have been done. But I also think that, especially if you are Minister of Security and Justice, there should be a business reflection on that at some point, and it has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u85	Mr Van Oosten pointed out that the Minister had apologized for the words he used, such as the word "tasteless." But the problem was not so much the words, nor was it the non-activation during a study, because that could be the fact that the relationship with Professor Maat ended the debate. We will come to the question of whether this was done by the police or by the minister. Does Mr Van Oosten think that this should have been done retroactively before the police investigation? After reading the story, does he think it was appropriate to fire Professor Maat, who was one of the five people who gave a lecture for mayors in Twente? Or should we say retroactively that this discharge should not have taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u86	It may be good to include in my answer the timeline that we have all received. Last Friday's letter states, if I recall correctly, that Professor Maat has been held inactive. After the investigation, the cooperation with him ended. There is no doubt that we are going to discuss the question of whose initiative and so on, because a lot of questions have been asked about this. That's important to report. Why do I think it's important to report that? Because I understand, again, that with regard to the effect of such a lecture, you do what you do as a police officer and as a LFTO. If you read that story, you have done so. You also read that Professor Maat is not entirely free of blame. I can't make it prettier than it is. However, he is not alone in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u87	In the debate on 23 April, the Minister said that because of his remarks the relationship with Professor Maat will be terminated. He repeats that a second time. In that debate it is also said by at least two spokesmen of the House of Representatives. Everyone can see that that relationship is over. You're gonna give us a word game. Do you think that this relationship should not have ended during the investigation and that excuses are appropriate now that it has?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u88	I understand very well that at that time a non-activation was chosen, because that is what it is, although de facto this may lead to the same thing. I understand that very well, given the impact. We were just talking about the apology. Things are getting a little messed up right now. Do you know why I think these excuses are appropriate? Exactly for the reasons mentioned by the Minister in his statement. These excuses are in order because the Minister has given qualifications that do not suit a minister. It shows that he was overwhelmed by emotions. The qualifications should have been more businesslike. That's what the excuses are about. I think it's more than fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u89	I will give you an opportunity to interrupt later, Mr Omtzigt. I propose that Mr Van Oosten should first continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you very much for that, Mr President. I think I can take the step towards how we should deal with these kind of readings in a general sense. Measures are being taken on future readings on the MH17, as I understand from the Minister's letters. I think that's very sensible. For lectures by those involved in the National Team of Forensic Investigation, permission should be sought from now on, so that the target group and the content of the presentation can be considered critically. Victims and next of kin are just entitled to that. I think it is wise that a working group has been set up to examine how the lessons learned by the LTFO from disasters can contribute to scientific purposes. After all, let us not forget that you must continue to develop such a profession. Forensics should be able to stay at the highest level and that requires knowledge and information. I hope that something positive will come out of this whole, partly as a result of the measures taken by the Minister. Mr Omtzigt put the point of that thick file........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I'm surprised at that, too. Let's not make that a secret. We can infinitely discuss with each other the question of who is responsible for the fact that these black-painted passages have finally become public. The fact is that I am most pleased that I read back in the Minister's recent letter on October that the Minister writes "I should have done this differently in October." I read the letter "I should have informed the Chamber about the content of the report; I should have been aware of it on my own." The Chamber is entitled to that, too. At most, I would like to ask the Minister whether he has perhaps been over-guided by the WOB criteria rather than by the Constitution. With regard to information, the letters we received earlier in the year, I would like to join those colleagues who have already asked about this. I too think it is important for us to be clear about this in this debate. My conclusion may be brief. I think I am quite sure that I can say that we are all, at least for everyone in this Chamber, for the Minister and, of course, for Professor Maat, that we are all deeply involved in the families of the victims of the disaster with the MH17. I am truly convinced that all our efforts are constantly focused on the careful handling and promotion of their interests. I therefore think it is very important that we learn lessons from this issue. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. I am curious to hear his reaction in this regard. I expect he will. The letter says something about that, too. We have already exchanged things here and we will exchange more, but I really want to get more information from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u91	Mr Van Oosten has spoken a great deal about emotion. He said he could understand that. I have that, too. He talked about apologizing to Mr. Maat. He has said that he understands it, even though they relate only to the expressions that just went a little too far. Okay, they're Mr Van Oosten's words. Then there was the question of how such a reading should take place and at the end two sentences were devoted to the provision of information to the Chamber. I find that incomprehensible. In fact, Mr Van Oosten simply said: I follow the Minister in his cavalier recognition of the fact that what he did in December, namely to give confidential access, could have been done in October. Did I really understand that? Is that the criticism of the VVD when for three-quarters of a year the reality is covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u92	No, Mr Van Nispen did not understand that correctly. That's because he weighs the number of minutes I've talked about emotion, against the number of minutes I've talked about how to deal with lectures and the provision of information to the Chamber. The fact that I spoke longer about emotion is not because I wanted to say much more about it in my speech, but because you asked me all about it, even before I even said a word about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u93	And that was because of the remarkable statements made by Mr Teeven this morning. I would like to hear Mr van Oosten's opinion on the way in which this Minister has informed the Chamber of this matter. I can't imagine the VVD saying, "There's actually been little wrong. If what was made confidential for inspection in December had been made confidential in October, it would have been better, and we do not have such an opinion on it." Mr Van Oosten must recognize that there have been many times when the Minister should have known the seams of the stocking and should have informed the Chamber completely and correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u94	I agree with Mr Van Nispen, but the Minister already writes that. The Minister writes in his letter that he should have informed us in October. I would have had a problem if the Minister had not done so, because in previous debates, as you know, I have called attention to the provision of information to the Chamber. That was then about very different themes. I and Mr Van Nispen cannot do our job properly if we are not properly informed. I'm very attached to that. That is why I am so pleased with the remark made by the Minister in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u95	If I had to sum up Mr Van Oosten's contribution, I would write as key words 'the minister is a man'. We agree on that. There may be emotion. This could also be the case with MPs. We choose the victims. In order to make that clear, we can make a firm statement through the press about Professor Maat, which is not abandoned. There is still a little push in that direction, because he may have made mistakes as well. And that's about it, when it would have been the best thing for everyone and everything if this had been done by September and if the facts had been on the table here and at the ministry. It would have been best if conclusions had been drawn, if apologies had been made and if we could have put an end to it. With regard to the victims, it would have been much better than the discussion that is taking place here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u96	Can I point out to Mr Segers that the conclusions on how to cooperate with Professor Maat and the measures announced in relation to lectures and so on have already been drawn in fact last June? In that respect, I do not quite understand Mr Segers' question. That's done at the same time. Afterwards, and this is of course very relevant to the Chamber of Commerce, there has been a lot of discussion about the structure of the documents that led to the Minister's letter of office, the way in which we were informed and so on. But in the core, nothing has really changed about the conclusion et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u97	At the beginning of this month, an apology is being made on the basis of the fact story one month earlier, beginning of December. That story of fact was there a long time ago. The facts were known a long time ago. This calls for much more self-reflection than we have heard from the VVD group for the past ten or fifteen minutes and not to give another touch to Professor Maat and say that the minister is a human being. We all understand emotion, but this calls for much more self-reflection of the Minister's actions, on the relationship between Cabinet and Chamber and also on the attitude of the VVD Group as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u98	Mr Segers is asking for self-reflection, but I have tried to do nothing else in the past ten to fifteen minutes. I mean that sincerely. I really didn't try to do anything else. I think it is more than right for the Minister to apologize for these remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u99	Mr Segers has tried, Mr Van Nispen has tried and I would like to try one last time. Mr Van Oosten says that the apologies are more than justified. Does Mr Van Oosten think that the apology is timely? It has already been said: the facts were known in June, the excuses are offered in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u100	We can discuss for a long time what the moment of that apology should have been. I would stress that the conclusions on Professor Maat's actions and the manner in which you then deal with them have not changed at all. In retrospect, having studied all the documents and after the Minister himself indicated that he should have informed the Chamber in October, I believe that perhaps the moment of apology could have been a little earlier. That would be in line with the Minister's logic. Perhaps that would have led to discussion in this Chamber at another time, but in the end it is about the fact that there are excuses. We may have another discussion about the moment, but they are there and they are appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u101	Is it "appropriate" that excuses have been made for statements, but not for the resignation? Then I would like to tell Mr van Oosten what the findings of the general commanders are in the factual account: '1. The main cause is the operation of the police. 2. The charging of Professor Maat alone goes too far. 3. Measures at system level are needed, not at individual level. 4. The Minister must reconsider the measures against Maat." How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u102	The word "only" shows that it is wider than Size: not only Size, but not outside Size. I can't make it better. Then may I give you a small list of whatever we've read back in the response? "Sensitive matters outside the field in the lecture," "students of health sciences, a fairly broad target group," "the impact," "to make yourself aware of what consequences this might have" and "the fact that there may have been no rules is separate from the fact that, especially in the case of something like this, you should always have your own mind in mind: is this the time when this can take place?" I also read that in the reports. In that context, therefore, I do not find it so strange that I should make another comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mr Van Oosten said just now that we in the House of Representatives cannot do our job properly unless we are informed in good time, incomplete and incorrect. I ask him the question I have already asked Mr Recourt. Does the VVD Group think that we have been informed in good time and correctly in this dossier? Or does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, like the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, think that we are far too late, incorrect and always incompletely informed in this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u104	I've actually already answered that. The Minister himself states in his letter that he should have informed the Chamber in October. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mrs Van Tongeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u106	This is the third file in which we find the same situation. If a minister in a third file does not inform the Chamber in a timely and incomplete manner, is the conclusion of the VVD Group that saying sorry is enough? Or does the VVD Group really think that something more should happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u107	Now I am repeating myself, because the Minister has apologized for the statements he made in April, overwhelmed by emotion, towards Professor Maat. That is what I read in the communiqué, in the statement he himself gave. I think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u108	Mr. Chairman. For the third time since this Minister took office, he has been talking about his functioning. After the Volkertfoto and the Teevendeal we are talking today about the file of George Maat. The names of the files differ, but the contents show great similarities. In all three cases, the Minister did not communicate fully or fully with the Chamber. In addition, crucial information was deliberately withheld or withheld. Are we actually still talking to the Minister of Security and Justice today, or are we talking to the Minister of Hidden and Shocked? The Minister was guided by emotions when he qualified Maat's performance last year as "inappropriate and distasteful." That's worrying. At no ministerial post does the PVV want to see emotional error and certainly not in the position of the Minister of Security and Justice. Moreover, if there were so many emotions in the game, why wasn't the Minister prepared to get the truth out of the table as quickly as possible? Why didn't he even bother to see the full police investigation and why didn't he send it to the Chamber unpainted? Given the societal relevance and the emotional charge, that would have only made sense. I would like a response from the Minister. According to Professor Maat, his innocence has been established for a long time, but a letter from former Chief Constable Bouman was changed by intercession of the Ministry. Suddenly, after the Ministry's intervention, Maat had acted incriminatingly. That is why I have this question: is Professor Maat's explanation correct that the Minister himself has intervened and changed the letter to crucial parts? The Minister has mistakenly stacked up on the file on Professor Maat. This error festival finally led to the Minister's apology last week. Why did Professor Maat's honor recovery take so long? It is thanks to Professor Maat himself that the truth has come out and his name has been cleared. The fact that the Minister did not apologize until the documents were published by Professor Maat is significant. The excuses come, it seems, not from the motive to rehabilitate Maat, but to save the Minister's name. Why did this happen? Because the Minister was simply forced to apologize by the disclosure of the police investigation by Professor Maat. He couldn't get out of it then. The PVV loses confidence in this minister at record rate. How many more excuses will there be if this pace of error and subsequent apology is continued? The minister is guided by emotions, does not find truth and withholds documents. The PVV demands today a clear explanation from the Minister. How does he judge his own performance? What mistakes did he make in this file? I'd like to get a full list and an explanation of that. What exactly did he apologize for to Professor Maat? I want him to say that here. Who else would the Minister like to apologize to today? I ask the Minister to take ample time for this. There are many other important files in the ministry. If the Minister does not come up with a clear and acceptable story today, it will be over and out for us. Think, for example, of the important file on the criminal prosecution of the perpetrators in the MH17 case. We cannot leave that in the hands of a minister who is misguided and trying to cover it up. It is precisely for this reason that the bottom stone must emerge at all costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mr. Chairman. Once Mr Van der Steur was Dutch champion debater. He is an honorary member of the debate society Leiden, won the first Cicero-debate tournament and is a member of the committee of recommendation of the Dutch Championship Policy debate. Those were mostly debates about the emperor's beard. They were verbal skirmishes for no other purpose than to trump the opponents in the debate. However, when he became Minister of Justice, the content of the debate did matter. And then it went wrong. Never has a Minister of Justice talked himself into trouble so quickly and so often and then tried to talk himself out of it like a hare again. The incident with the photo in De Telegraaf might still be interpreted as a beginner's error. The rustling around the Bitch Deal could still have been dismissed as a legacy of the past. With the Maat case, however, the measure could be full. Bringing someone of name and fame into discredit is below all standards. That will be agreed with me attorney Van der Steur, as will the professor Van der Steur. However, the question is how Minister Van der Steur deals with it. Not researcher Maat, in the words of the minister, behaved "extremely inappropriate and distasteful" but the minister himself by going so far on a scientist who had been knocked down by RTL News and lying on his back when the minister finished the job with a kicking move. Certainly, the Minister has apologized and Mr Maat has accepted them. However, the Minister of Justice has for a short time seriously damaged the image of politics and confidence in politics. I know there's been a non-aggression agreement between the VVD and the PvdA. I know that the PvdA has already provided the Minister with virtually unconditional backing and that the arrogance of power seems therefore to strike again. There is no doubt that the Minister of Justice is going through the dust during this debate, but I would very much like to know what he thinks of the sorry democracy and, in particular, of his role in it. By sending a completely blackened police report to the Chamber, the Minister has literally shown that he does not care about everything. In that report, all the exculpatory information on Mr Maat had been covered, so that the only readable rules appeared to exonerate the Minister, not Mr Maat. That can only be described as an insult to Parliament. It doesn't fit a Minister of Justice. Not only do I want to hear the Minister's excuses, but above all I want to know what he is going to do to break the pattern of chatting himself into trouble and then chatting himself out there again. A third yellow card within a year is a serious warning. Everyone knows that, even those who practice sports in which yellow cards are not distributed. I don't think the minister is a footballer, but in another sport, baseball, something similar applies, namely three strikes and you're out. The Minister is lucky that the PvdA does not apply that rule, otherwise he could have moved to the side. If the PvdA saves the minister from ruin, I would very much like to know what the Minister's good intentions are and how he intends to ensure that in practice they will lead to the desired result. I look forward to the Minister's reply with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u110	This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. There is a need for a long suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u111	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to put a question to the Members. Mr Krol was unable to take part in the debate in connection with a debate elsewhere. He's asking if he'll be allowed to interrupt. If there's no objection, I'd like to allow it. There is no such thing, so I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr. Chairman. I have listened carefully to the comments, the questions, the criticisms and the concerns expressed by the Chamber. You know I like to come to the Chamber, Mr President, but this is not a debate for which you would like to come to the Chamber. I am therefore well aware that in the next few minutes I will have to remove the concerns of the Chamber in a number of areas. On a number of points, I will contradict the criticism. I will also have to explain on a number of points how things have been the way they have been and why this can be explained. Since the disaster with the MH17, there have been three priorities: the repatriation of victims and their possessions, the investigation of the conduct and the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators. On 22 April, the message came that information related to victims of the MH17 disaster would have been handled carelessly. The next of kin were shocked, like many others. I, too, was very shocked. From consultations between my department and the police on 22 April, before I made the statements that same night, it appeared that something had to be done to restore the broken trust of the next of kin. The police decided to deactivate Professor Maat on April 22nd. The police also announced an internal investigation. I agreed with this. On the evening of April 22nd I let myself be guided too much by emotion. It would have been better if I'd been more businesslike. Over time I have reflected on my own functioning. This led me to invite Mr Maat to speak at my office in September last year. Then We had a good and open conversation, and each one went our ways. Then, in the light of the developments in this dossier, I reviewed my own workings. I wondered how, if I were to be faced with a similar situation today, I would be speaking about that situation. I came to the conclusion that I would have been more businesslike. Despite my emotions, despite my involvement with the next of kin, even though I knew that the actual situation had caused a lot of concern, concern and shock to the next of kin, I had been more businesslike. The first lesson I drew from this dossier is therefore that it would have been appropriate if I had been more businesslike on this issue on the night of 22 April. I've come a long way to recognize that for myself. That is also the reason why I did not apologize earlier to Professor Maat for these remarks, but that I did so in all honesty last week. Professor Maat has therefore indicated that he will accept my apology. The second point that was raised in the relationship with Professor Maat is that the suggestion was raised everywhere in this debate today, too, that I would have in one way or another cast doubt on Professor Maat's expertise, quality and commitment. I would refer you back to the debate on 23 April. In this, I explicitly began to tell you how important Professor Maat's work has been for the identification of victims of the disaster with the MH17, but also how important he has been in previous situations in the identification of victims of the tsunami and the Tripoli disaster. I also referred in my letter to a number of other work carried out by Mr Maat. There has never been any doubt in my mind about his expertise. I think it is important that I stress this again. I have done so in both my discussions, both in September and recently, because Professor Maat's expertise has never been under discussion. So to all those MPs who have said "Professor Maat has gone through the mud," "Professor Maat is this," "Professor Maat is that," I say: just look at what I said on April 23rd and what I repeated in many letters afterwards: Professor Maat's expertise and quality are above me. That is also the reason why, despite the decision of the Chief Constable of 10 June to end the cooperation on the MH17 identification process, the police announced that I already informed the Chamber in September that she would like to use Professor Maat's expertise in the future. I am glad that Professor Maat has indicated, of course, as he said, that he is prepared to be here. My meeting on 14 January with Professor Maat, in which I apologized to him, was covered by a report which I sent to the Chamber. I think it is important to note that Professor Maat cannot agree with the opinion of the Chief Constable of 10 June, which led to the end of the cooperation in the identification process for MH17. Professor Maat believes that the decision would have been different if the decision was based entirely on the Report of Report, dated 4 June, rather than on the subsequent judgment of the General Commanders. This means that Professor Maat has indicated that he disagrees with the judgment of the general commanders, and that it is also nothing to do with the Chief of Staff's opinion based on the report. I have then endorsed that judgment again. At the same time, Professor Maat has indicated that he considers my apologies, the recognition of his expertise and the fact that the police will use them again, where appropriate, as sufficient restoration of honour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u113	The minister now says that the Chief Constable made the decision on June 10 to end the relationship with Maat. However, on 22 April in the evening, the police communicated that he had been put off duty and on 23 April the minister in the Chamber said: "I myself gave a qualification of Mr Maat's speech yesterday. As a result, I can also inform you that cooperation with Mr Maat will be terminated." The Minister has just apologized for this qualification. A few sentences later he repeated that, after there had been an interruption of one of the coalition's colleagues. "I have said what I have said. It doesn't fit in with the arrangement that was there. It should never have happened. That is also why Mr Maat has today been put off the agenda and why it has now been established that cooperation will be terminated." Doesn't that mean it wasn't the Chief Constable? We will come back to the question of whether the Chief Constable under pressure from the Ministry or... the head of the NCTV. The Minister himself has said twice in the Chamber, I have a third quote if the Minister would like to see the cooperation terminated before he started a police investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u114	I've seen that myself. When I read the documents, I see that I have indicated with different words what the factual situation was. I wrote that in the letter, too. The factual situation was that on 22 April the police notified the fact that they had declared Mr Maat inactive and that an investigation would be initiated. I'm announcing that investigation. The fact that I announced this so explicitly in the debate is one of the problems I have with the Chamber. I have recalled that there was talk of decommissioning and of ending cooperation. Those words go all the way through each other. If Mr Omtzigt asks me what lesson 2 is that I have learned from this dossier, then I say that it is certainly wise not to use different terms. It is clear that there has been no cessation of cooperation other than decommissioning on 22 April. It was not until 10 June that the Chief Constable decided to terminate the cooperation for the MH17 identification process. These are the facts that Mr Omtzigt also knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u115	I would like to repeat what the Minister himself said on 23 April: 'That is why Mr Maat has been put off the agenda today and why it has now been established that cooperation will be terminated. "That's what the Minister said twice. The police themselves thought that, because at the beginning of the fact-finding investigation, one of those blackly painted sentences said: "On Thursday 23 April, by order of the Minister of Security and Justice, the cooperation with Professor Maat was terminated." So everyone, the police, the MPs and the minister, repeatedly used the word "end." The press used the word, and then the police investigation started. There's nowhere, anywhere, to find a piece where the minister takes it back. He was reminded of it in the debate. We understood the inaction, but the Minister had ended the cooperation for the police investigation, which had become completely worthless. Did the minister do that or didn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u116	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u117	Well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u118	I understand very well. Because when I read it back myself, I also feel that I did not make that clear. I also indicated in the letter that I said the same thing in different words. I am not authorized to enter into the cooperation relationship between the National Police and third parties with whom she is cooperating. Under the Police Act, that is reserved for the Chief Constable. Nor have I given any burden or instruction, at any time, to end this cooperation. I did not do that on 22 April, not on 23 April, but not on 10 June or before or after. I don't have that authority as a minister. However, under Article 31 of the Police Act, I have a designation authority. I didn't use a clue like that. But I do admit to the Chamber that, if I have to learn a lesson, that lesson is that it was unwise to say the same in different words. But there is no question of a burden. I understand that, for this reason, that phrase was later deleted from the WOB report, because it concerned a personal policy view of the official concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u119	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u120	This is not unclear. I just thought the Minister was very clear here. It says it twice. All MPs repeat it. In the second period, he shall not oppose the termination of the cooperation. All the media say it's finished. The police say this one's been terminated by order. The Minister is not making any attempt to rectify that at the time. Does the Minister agree with me that it was very clear at the time? He says: first on inactive, but now terminated. That's not confusion, but it's obvious. The Minister ended the relationship on 23 April in the experience of the entire National Police Corps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u121	No, not in the sense of the Chief Constable and not in the experience of Professor Maat himself. Nor is it in the perception of the facts, because otherwise the investigation I announced in the same debate will have no function either. It is quite clear that an investigation has been initiated by the Chief Constable with the request to advise him. That's what happened. The Court now knows that the general commanders have established the facts and have given an opinion on them. I'll get back to you on that. The Chief Constable made his own conclusion to that. Then I endorsed it. In this way, it is also regulated by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u122	The Minister says that he did not end the cooperation in the assessment of the Chief of Police and in the assessment of the police. What is the Minister's opinion? Did he end the cooperation himself? After all, it was the Minister who used these precise words not once, not twice, but three times in the relevant debate on the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u123	No, because under Article 27 of the Police Act, only the Chief of Staff is responsible for the leadership and management of the Corps. This includes the decision to terminate or not to terminate partnerships. The police turned Professor Maat off duty on April 22, prior to the debate and prior to my statements on April 22 in the evening. I did that in different terms. I have already said that I should not have done this in different terms. I have also informed the Chamber of this, also in response to questions from Mr Sjoerdsma. The investigation was then initiated. This resulted in a judgment of the Chief Constable under the same legislation of 10 June of that year. I have endorsed that judgment. By the way, and for the record, I am entirely politically responsible for any judgment of anyone in this arena and in this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u124	Yes, but this is not a debate club where we can mix synonyms with each other without any consequences. "Non-active" simply means something quite different in this Chamber than ending the working relationship. The Minister says that he has learned a lesson and that he should have been more careful in it. But this is about a person whose employment relationship within the police he makes a ruling on. The Minister says, "I'm not in charge of that." But he's gonna do it anyway. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u125	No, because then it really comes down to the point. My intention was no different than to tell you what happened. I admit it doesn't say happy. It says, and I will read it literally, because it is not quite as Mr Sjoerdsma now says: "It should never have happened. That is also why Mr Maat has today been put on a non-active basis and why it has now been established that cooperation will be terminated." That cessation of cooperation shall be the non-activation. That concludes the cooperation. That is how Professor Maat himself understood it, as he told me and also in the media. He never heard that the cooperation was terminated at that time. That wasn't until June, after the Chief Constable's decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u126	I just want to check exactly what happened. Perhaps there was no formal instruction by the Minister; there was no burden. But there has been contact between the department and the police about ending the cooperation. That is what the Minister acknowledges in answering the parliamentary questions: there was consensus on the decision of the police that the services could no longer be used until the internal investigation was completed. How did this consensus come about and what was discussed by the Ministry and the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u127	I think I explained that very clearly in the letter. I'm gonna go back to the way it went. The message came in that statements were made by Professor Maat and that they were recorded. The decision was taken to immediately inform the next of kin about this. From the care taken in the relationship between my department, the NCTV and the next of kin it was quite clear that it would be experienced as a huge problem by the next of kin. That's what happened. There has been contact with Professor Maat himself following this meeting and there has been talk with the police and my department about what we should do. What should we do now to ensure that we can restore the trust of the next of kin, which would be shocked by this, as much as possible? At that time, it was decided by the police with the agreement of my department and with my agreement, therefore, I also informed the Chamber that Professor Maat was at that time put out of action and that an investigation would be initiated. That was also the formal speech from the police in the course of April 22nd. At about eight o'clock, half past nine in the evening, after the so-called governmental consultation, I was asked by the media what I thought about it and then I expressed myself too emotionally and not businessly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u128	There is therefore some interference by the department with the termination of the cooperation relationship. It is not a decision that the police have taken, because consensus has been reached on it. Surely that suggests that we have discussed together what we should do at that time? The Minister or at least officials of the Ministry discussed this with the police and then came to this decision together. Otherwise you cannot say that there is consensus on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr Van Nispen must read what it says. It says that the police made that decision and that there was consensus on it. That makes sense, because at that time and still there is a very close cooperation relationship between all the parties involved and all the departments involved in the issue of the MH17. It was one of the hardest files that played last year. That cooperation was necessary there as well. This means that there has been seamless and good cooperation in such cases too. That does not happen by neglecting the responsibilities. That's not how it happened here. The police are responsible for the decision which it itself announced on 22 April. That's before I even talked about it. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say once again that I am entirely politically responsible for that decision. I agree, as I just said, with that. I found and believe that at that time, given the situation and the shock that this would have caused and caused to the relatives, it was the right response: to deactivate, to investigate and then to decide whether or not to end the cooperation in any form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u130	So I fully understand the Minister when I say that the decision was taken by the corps leadership. The Minister agreed, discussed and indicated that it would be a good decision. It is then clear from the facts that cooperation with the professor will be terminated by order of the Minister for Security and Justice. Where does the police perception come from that it is a burden and that this decision was taken at the direction of the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u131	I don't know. I can't say. It may well be that Mr Omtzigt is right to point out that someone from the debate on 23 April was, moreover, at that time, the decision to deactivate had already drawn that conclusion. It is also possible that this conclusion was drawn from my comment on 22 April in the evening. One thing is certain: it is not in line with the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u132	Why did that sentence go away? If it was factually incorrect and the Minister did not, or hardly had, any formal interference with it, then why was that sentence deleted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u133	That sentence has been wiped out because it was part of a WOB procedure. There are a number of conditions under which information should not be made available in the WOB, the Public Administration Act. One of these is the so-called personal policy concept. This is an opinion of the person who drew up the document, one specific person. For that reason, as I understand it from the police, they painted that information. The same applies, for example, to the judgment of the general commanders, which was part of a document intended for decision-making by the chief of police. In this sense, we will be able to discuss this in greater detail in a moment. The report and the judgment of the general commander are the same as a note which a minister receives from a Director-General with an opinion on a decision to be taken, which you can then do as a minister as you see fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u134	It is true that, on 23 April, the Minister for Security and Justice ordered that cooperation with Mr Maat be terminated. Now I know the police organization well. When the police write "on burden," that's actually not even an order but more an order. So I just can't place that. Either the facts are wrong or the Minister's words are wrong. It's one of two. I'd like some clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u135	It's very simple. For a charge, or an instruction, legally it should be an instruction, or an instruction under the Police Act.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... First of all, this kind of burden, instruction or instruction is given in writing. You can't do that like l'improviste. There is no such burden, instruction or clue. There's no discussion about that either. Even so, it is not true that on 22 April the decision is taken by the police, with which I fully agreed, to deactivate and initiate the investigation. This is very strange to a decision on the 23rd that there would then be an end to cooperation. In the Chamber, however, I have also referred to this exclusion as a 'cease to cooperate'. I have just made that clear in the direction of Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u136	The word "load" is actually mentioned in the facts. Is it true, then, that the facts are not correct, that there are mistakes in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u137	It was therefore not considered by the police to be a fact but a personal policy concept when dealing with the disclosure of these documents under the Public Administration Act and therefore deleted. I would like to point out that, of course, I gave the Chamber the complete dossier, including this sentence, for inspection on 2 December, albeit confidentially. I'll come back to why that was and is confidential.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u138	I understand that the Minister is now saying: I was a little careless in my choice of words, because by "non-activation," I actually meant the same thing as "ending cooperation." But that is simply not in line with the wording chosen by the Minister. For the sake of clarity, I am going to read it out again: 'That is why Mr Maat has been put out of action today and why it has been established that cooperation will be terminated'. "Today has been put off the agenda": that has already been done. And 'the cooperation will be terminated': that is something that is going to happen in the future. Then the Minister cannot say here: with those two wordings I meant exactly the same? By the shape in which he cast this he himself indicates that it is two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u139	I understand very well that this textexegesis leads to Mr De Roon's conclusion. I have already indicated, also in the letter, that I dealt with the same complex of facts with different wording on that night. I have repeatedly referred to the word 'non-activation', and for me it is the same. What happened then was this: there was a non-activation and an investigation would take place. I reported both to the Chamber. I agree with Mr De Roon that this sentence now raises questions, but the facts are the facts: there has been a non-action and the termination of cooperation for the identification process was decided by the Chief Constable on 10 June of last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u140	I note, however, that the Minister's account, where he says 'I meant the same thing as ending cooperation', is, in my view, simply not convincing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u141	I would like to point out to Mr De Roon that there is also simply a legal regime for the termination of cooperation relations by the National Police. That legislation means that only one person is competent to do so, and that is the chief of police. The Chief of Staff took only one decision, namely the non-activation on 22 April and the termination of the cooperation relationship between Professor Maat and the National Police for the identification process concerning MH17 on 10 June. Those are the facts and they are so well known in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u142	We have not been on the road for half an hour with this part of the debate and we are already deeply in what I can only characterize as word games. "Non-active" is suddenly the same as "end" and the Minister could not have said "end" because the Minister cannot do so because of legal agreements. The minister just said, "I was overwhelmed by emotions." I don't know when that stopped, but you could imagine that the minister in the chambers just said, "Don't you think that man needs to get out, you can't?', And that emotion has slipped into this again. So I would like to know how many of these kinds of slips have been made, where one word actually means the other, and we should know that, if it says 'the Minister's burden', there is actually no way, because that is not the way it is. How many times has the Minister spoken in this file, possibly overwhelmed by emotion, by using a different word than he actually meant? Can we get that clear now, or else we'll be working on a whole set of word games tonight until about 11:00. I think this debate is too important for that, so it would be a good thing for the Minister if he could just put it up in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u143	I don't know any situations other than those we've just been talking about. I would like to confirm once again to Mrs Van Tongeren what I wrote in the letter, namely that there was no doubt in my mind that on 22 April Professor Maat's failure to act was the only correct response to the events as they were. I want to be clear about that, because that's what I really thought at the time. I still think so, because I also eventually joined the Chief Constable's decision to terminate the cooperation relationship for MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u144	Then the Chamber will have nothing but to count itself. The first slip, overwhelmed by emotion, concerned the words used by the minister at the time and with which Maat was qualified. The second mistake was that the Minister spoke of 'disabled' and 'end as soon as possible', but we should have understood otherwise. But the Minister did not say anything in the entire file with which he meant anything else? The rest of his quotes and statements in AO's, debates and the media are all factually correct? These are the only two?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u145	I cannot, of course, answer Mrs Van Tongeren's question in a general sense. In this debate, in this matter, those are the only two which I can say now that I think I would have done more wisely not to say the same thing in different terms during the debate. However, this in itself does not detract from the facts. The facts are as they are; the inaction took place on 22 April by the police, or on 23 April, and not on the basis of a burden on my part or any discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u146	The Minister says we need to talk about the facts. That is what we want to talk about, but the way in which something is said is also a fact. The Minister says that Mr Maat has been held inactive and that cooperation will be terminated later. He says he means the same thing. But we're talking about what was said here today. We don't talk about the intentions; we talk about the facts. Then how is it that the Minister says the same thing? After all, he says: Mr Maat is not active and he is not active. Wouldn't it be weird if that meant the same thing? Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u147	I have already said, also to Mr Omtzigt, that if I had to learn a lesson from the debate on MH17 on 23 April 2015, I think it would have been wiser if I had said the same thing at the time, namely only a non-action as it had become known on 22 April. That is what I am saying to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u148	When the minister opened the newspapers on 24 April, the day after the debate, he could read that a Dutch press office had written that after the expert was turned off, "the controversial MH17 expert" had now been dropped. The NRC, perhaps the minister's favourite newspaper, wrote: in the debate, Van der Steur announced that the collaboration between the anatomist George Maat and the Research Council for Security in the investigation of the disaster was definitively discontinued. A little further, it says, "He's already been deactivated." The Guardian said that Professor Maat was "fired by the Dutch minister." The same was reported by the major Russian press agency Russia Today. Now I know that the Minister has a very large information department. Around the world, the news is that this man has been fired, but nine months we are discussing the fact that the Minister had not noticed. Did the Minister notice that on April 24th, so the next day, the entire world press wrote about the resignation of Professor Maat? Wasn't it thought "hm, we meant non-activation, so will that be corrected"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u149	At least the latter was not conceived, because it did not. As far as the first is concerned, I also heard Mr Omtzigt reading that it was a cooperation relationship with the Security Research Council. I am not talking about how people draw conclusions from the debates we have had. The facts are that there has been a non-action, which the LTFO has also informed Mr Maat, and that an investigation has been started into what actually happened. That investigation resulted in an opinion to the Chief Constable in June. That has resulted in a decision by the Chief Constable. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u150	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u151	Now we get exactly the same straw, which is well rehearsed, but the question was another one here. On April 24th, the entire world press, like the entire Dutch press, reported that Professor Maat had been fired. That went all over the world in all the smells and colors. This led to letters from experts from many countries to the Ministry asking what was going on here. All those letters also spoke of resignation. Really everyone was talking about firing. Now, nine months later, we're gonna play a word game and tell the minister he didn't fire him and he didn't get kicked out of the team. Why didn't there be any action at the time to make this right? If there's anything in the paper that the minister doesn't like, his department will call the newspaper or the NOS within minutes that he doesn't like the message. Apparently, there was an incorrect message here. Why has no action been taken on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u152	I can't answer that question. As far as I know, no action has been taken on this because, at least in the relationship between the National Police and Professor Maat, it was not in line with the facts, as I knew it. That's right. Moreover, I later wrote this in the letters to the people to whom Mr Omtzigt referred. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the internal investigation and the ensuing provision of information to your Chamber. I repeat that, as a minister, I am, of course, responsible for all the decisions taken in this dossier. The Chamber can and may address me to that. Where necessary, I will explain those decisions. It goes without saying that I receive all kinds of advice on this subject, but that is not really relevant. I am responsible for the decisions taken under my responsibility, whether by officials, by myself, by the Chief of Police or by the National Police. As I said in last Thursday's letter to the Chamber, it would have been better for the information to be provided to the Chamber if I had requested the unpainted documents from the EPO decision on 12 October, made an independent assessment of them and then made them confidentially available to the Chamber. If you place something confidential for inspection in the Chamber, you must comply with Article 68 of the Constitution and then, of course, be able to justify why this information is kept confidential for inspection. I repeat that there has been no hesitation in sharing information with the Chamber. The problem lies in the fact that this was an internal investigation by the National Police themselves. That internal investigation depends on whether people want to participate in it. Those people are counting on the investigation and the statements they make in it to remain confidential. For this reason, it has been decided not to disclose the internal investigation. That was also considered undesirable by the police. In the discussion on the WOB procedure, I then indicated that I stated that this information would be available to the Chamber, albeit confidentially, because the report did not distinguish between a factual account on the one hand and the judgment, that is to say the personal policy view, of the general commander on the other. How would I have liked to do this differently afterwards, knowing what we know now? It would have been wiser to point out in the decision of the police to conduct that internal investigation that it would be important to have a factual account that would only look at the facts and would not contain any judgment of the authors of the document. The Chief Constable could have attached that fact story to his letter and offered it to me in support of his decision. I could have given this complex of facts to the Chamber in public. My next lesson from this dossier is that if such a situation occurs again, the facts of the case will have to be separated from the findings of the investigation. I would like to point out that the same thing happens in the examination of judgments as in my department when officials advise me. This form of judgment, which is a personal policy concept of officials, should enable the Minister to take a decision. What the Minister then does with that is up to the Minister. In principle, those documents shall not be made public. I am well aware that I took a decision today when I answered the parliamentary questions, which may be called very exceptional, because we have made public all the documents underlying my decision. I think it is right that I should also inform the Chamber that this should be an exception. As Mr Dijkgraaf said yesterday when dealing with the scheme, there is a risk that officials, or general commanders, will no longer write down what they want to write down because of the risk of disclosure. Officials should be free to advise their minister on what they believe should be the right decision of the minister. The same applies to general commanders vis-à-vis their chief of police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u153	The Minister insists that what has now been made public is a risk and that it is an exception. Surely that raises the question of what personal policy ideas of officials have now become public, which we can say: well, that's really inhumane; we really wouldn't have wanted that; but we couldn't have done otherwise, because it was already overwritten with pencil by the professor. What personal policy ideas should not have been made public? Why is this an exception and why can't we just go public in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u154	I was not talking about the general account and the form of judgment of the general commanders, but about the documents which I made available to the Chamber when answering questions to Parliament. These are the internal notes that led to my decision-making and the answer to parliamentary questions, i.e. documents from my department. Mr Van Nispen and other members have quoted from those documents which contain judgments and opinions of officials. I decided to make this information available to the Chamber because I also felt it was right to show how I was prepared for conversations and things in this file. However, this should not have precedents for other dossiers or for other ministers, as there is a risk that officials will take account of such documents being made public. Officials should be free to advise their minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u155	Then the Minister misunderstands my question. On 2 December, the story of the police investigation was kept confidential. In October, 90% of the black painted facts story had already been made public. In December, that was complete, so no longer lacquered, but kept confidential for inspection. The Minister is now saying that he should have done so two months earlier. The question remains why this should be kept confidential. What personal policy ideas in those documents had opposed disclosure, so that we could all have read that there were also exculpatory conclusions for the professor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u156	The exculpatory conclusions for the professor were already included in the Chief of Staff's letter, namely that the LTFO did not have sufficient agreements and rules to determine whether you should have given such a lecture. That is the essence of the conclusions of the General Commanders, the Chief Constable's advisers. They have the same position vis-à-vis their chief of police as an official of my department vis-à-vis me as a minister. I sent the facts report to the Chamber confidentially because I thought it was important for the Chamber to be able to see the full documents, including all the witness statements. I say here that I believe that they should never be made public for the same reason. However, it also applies to the decision-making of the General Commander. That was an advice to the chief of police, which allowed him to do whatever he wanted. I understand very well that the Chamber says she would have liked to see that. She got that, too. The Chamber should have talked earlier, there is no discussion about that. However, its disclosure has exactly the same problem as the disclosure of other notes, namely that it becomes clear how, within the organisation of the National Police or my department, officials are advised to the Chief of Staff. In this particular case, it is the Chief Constable who has finally drawn independent conclusions and who should also draw them on the basis of the opinions. It is also up to him whether or not to follow these advices. I myself felt that I should simply send that complete information, including all the annexes, to the Chamber. I felt that this should be kept confidential because it concerned personal policy considerations of officials under the responsibility of the Chief Constable. I did, but too late. I should have done that in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u157	The passage which states that cooperation with Professor Maat is to be terminated on the instructions of the Minister of Security and Justice will be blacked out. The Minister says here that this is a personal policy view of civil servants. That is not a policy idea. It's not something you find. It's an observation that you can say she's not right or that you're looking at it differently. We can talk about that, have a debate about it. For Professor Maat exculpatory statements written down, there are no policy ideas. These are facts that you can then have a debate on. What has gone terribly wrong with the exculpatory statements lying on the streets, again, they are not policy ideas and they have indeed come out in the open?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u158	This is a question that is addressed in the WOB procedure. However, we must make a difference between the WOB procedure and the provision of information to the Chamber. There is no discussion in my mind about the fact that the Chamber should have been informed on 12 October, confidentially, with the complete dossier and not only on 2 December. That's one. The second point is the WOB procedure and how it provides for handling information based on a personal opinion. That's what it is in this case. It is a document of an individual sergeant who draws this conclusion. It's a personal policy view of that sergeant. That's the reason for the police. It's the police's judgment to leave it out. The same applies to the general commanders. In the relationship between the chief of police and the general commanders, it is considered to be a personal policy view, which is an advice to the chief of police. The Chief Constable's gonna do whatever he wants with that. This should also have been the case in the WOB procedure with regard to my department. I have already said that I am struggling with this personal policy view, and I think it is for the same reason as Mr Segers. In the previous debate on the Oosting Committee, we have already found that exactly the same thing was happening there: information was wiped out because it was a personal policy idea, when it was later said that they would have liked to see it. That is why I have written to the Chamber that I am going to involve an external expert in this. I would like to look specifically at this point in the departmental area, including the National Police and other implementing organisations, at how we can deal with this in such a way that we avoid this discussion, that we have a clearer view of what is a personal policy concept and what is not. I do not want to have this discussion. Because I didn't want to feed it, I gave the Chamber full insight into the documents in accordance with my obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u159	If the minister wants to keep an official out of the wind, he can paint his name black. I can understand why you do not want internal debates to be placed here by name and by name. However, the picture that is emerging is that everything that is difficult for the Minister, namely information about the Minister's responsibility in ending cooperation with Mr Maat and the exculpatory statements, has been blacked out. It'll be brought out. Then the picture is that everything that is difficult is painted black and that everything that supports the first version of the minister is sent out? That's not a discussion about personal policy ideas, is it? It is really a discussion about imaging and the question of what story you want to bring out. That is the debate now, and that is not the debate we should be having. The facts should be on the table and we should be able to debate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u160	I agree with Mr Segers on the facts. As I have already said, I should have asked the Chief Constable afterwards to organise the assignment of general commanders in such a way that the factual account would be available to the Chief Constable as an annex to his letter to me without personal policy considerations, conclusions and judgment, so that it would be correct in the line. With regard to the provision of information to the Chamber, it does not play out, because I have made the documents available to the Chamber, completely unpainted, with all the details, albeit too late for the record, because I should have made that assessment on 12 October and not on 2 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u161	I am now a little hesitant about what I have to go through, because I find the answer to Mr Segers unsatisfactory. On the facts of the case, it is rightly said that it is exculpatory for Professor Maat. At the same time, the Minister used the phrase in his reply: "From 2 December onwards, the file can be included in my knowledge'. The Chamber has requested that account of the facts. The minister didn't want to see it. The minister was aware of different views within the police about the functioning of and consequences for Professor Maat. The minister didn't want to see it. The media submitted WOB requests. The Minister still didn't want to see the facts. This leads me to suspect that the Minister simply did not want to know the exculpatory statements himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u162	That is certainly not the case, because I have no problem with exculpatory explanations at all. As a minister, I am allowed to regularly inform the Chamber that things have not gone as they should. I want to be completely open and transparent in this. That is also the only way it works, but we are dealing here with the division of responsibility. I repeat that Article 27 of the Police Act is very clear on this: the Chief of Police is responsible for the management of the National Police. This means that everything that happens under his responsibility is of course under my responsibility, but I do not need to see all the policy documents that the Chief Constable asks for to be able to conduct his own policy. There's the difference. I never got the document either, and I didn't think that was weird at all until 2 December, because it was part of a trade-off that the Chief Constable had to be able to make in complete independence. He did. I can trust that the Chief Constable will inform me fully and the letter of 10 June shows that he has done the same with regard to the facts. This shows clearly what was exculpatory for Mr Maat, namely that there was not enough regulation and that there was not enough thought about what you could and what you could not do. At the same time, the Chief Constable himself draws conclusions. I hear Mr Sjoerdsma saying that Mr Maat is being completely exonerated, but that is not the way the facts are. The general commanders note that the presentation should not have been given at that time, not for that target group, with that content and not with that organisational principle. They themselves conclude that Mr Maat is certainly responsible, not only for him as an individual but also for the organisation. Later, they advise "That's a personal policy idea with the police that I understand "That should not have led individually to consequences for Professor Maat." But that final judgment is really up to the Chief Constable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u163	In the debate on 23 April, the Minister used the phrase "end of the working relationship." Mr Omtzigt has already referred to this. This minister is pointed out to be inconsistent in the investigation by policemen, MPs and the media. I ask the Minister why he didn't want to know the facts. Why didn't he want to know the facts found? Why didn't he ever ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u164	That's what I just said. Because it's not my job to ask the Chief Constable to back up what he informs me about as a minister. The Chief Constable's letter of 10 June is a well-balanced letter in which the Chief Constable indicates what did not go well and what his opinion is about Professor Maat's performance. He's drawing a conclusion from that. Then I don't have to ask the Chief Constable what's under there. That's not how the system works. I do not think it should work like that either, because then we really cannot work in the relationship between the Minister and the Chief Constable. The Chief of Staff is responsible for 60,000 personnel. It can't be that I ask everything: can I see the underlying pieces? It's just not like that. In retrospect, we should have done this differently with regard to the facts; that would have made my life considerably easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u165	It is not about the Minister's life, but it is about how the Minister deals with citizens in the Netherlands who are subject to a police fact-finding investigation. He's sending this out blind on October 12th. Blind says the Minister: This is how I inform the Chamber and I do nothing else. Page after page: black. He saw that before he sent it to the Chamber. Was there anything else in the minister at the time that said, "Hm, I'd like to know what I'm sending black to the Chamber?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u166	As I have said: on 12 October, when I sent this to the Chamber in accordance with my earlier commitment, it is therefore quite understandable why it happened. I should, of course, have made an independent assessment of the provision of information to the Chamber after I had fully requested it. The conclusion should have been, as I did on 2 December, that I should have sent the whole piece to the Chamber confidentially at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u167	I'm sorry I'm going to have to ask you a few times here, because this is what he's doing with the report on October 12: it's just black. On 2 December the Minister took a new decision. He doesn't say he's gonna make this part public, for example the facts story and the rest confidential. No, he does everything confidential. And with that, he's doing something vile. This is because he says to us as MPs: you cannot talk about it, otherwise you will be treated as Mrs Voortman in this Chamber. Then you will be punished for violating the confidentiality rules. So where Maat was publicly punished, up to Russia, and it was big in the media, the MPs were told that they could see it, but that if they told anything about it, they would do something wrong. Why didn't the Minister then make the whole of information public rather than on the basis of the WOB, so that it could be publicly assessed? Please note, the Minister gets wet by objection and appeal from the WOB and then becomes more public. Or does the Minister not agree that this kind of thing should be possible in public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u168	I think the Chamber should be informed. That can and may be confidential. I explained why this document is confidential. That has to do with the investigation that has taken place. It also has to do with the personal policy views of officials, including general commanders, who served to advise the Chief Constable. That is why I sent the document to the Chamber too late, but completely without any care whatsoever. If then the Chamber says it wants to discuss it further, we could have had that debate. That has not happened, but it has been overtaken by the fact that Professor Maat himself has made a large part of the business public. Then I said that I would also make them public in relation to the debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u169	The Minister says that we could have had the debate. The problem is, however, that we could not have the debate because the piece was secret and we were not allowed to quote it. The government's policy on confidential information states that the confidential provision of information presupposes that the importance of the public provision does not outweigh the protection of the interest of the State. Confidentiality in our constitutional relations should be an exception and disclosure should be the rule. Parliament should be able to carry out its supervisory tasks as openly as possible. Where possible, therefore, information is provided publicly and generously. That's in Room 28362, no. 2, the memo on Article 68 of the Constitution. The cabinet is the government's saying it should be generous and public. The Chamber understands very well that a number of statements of witness are not fully public, but the facts are shared by the Minister? It should have been sent to the Chamber publicly on 2 December so that it could have been discussed publicly in a debate. We cannot put confidential documents on the agenda of a public chamber meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u170	The last point, of course, I agree with Mr Omtzigt. The Chamber must be informed and this can be confidential or it cannot be confidential. That consideration is always difficult in this case. I have chosen for good reasons to inform the Chamber confidentially with the complete document, with everything. However, I did mention the fact that I should have had another discussion with the National Police about the facts so that it could have been part of the Chief of Staff's letter to me and that I could have made that public in the letter, as I have also made it public, to the Chamber. That's what I said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u171	I'd like to go back to the working relationship, the working relationship with the chief of police. In my view, the Minister is saying two contradictory things about this. On the one hand, the Minister says that there are 60,000 people working and that this official takes his decisions and gives his advice and that he is able to obtain all the underlying documents from the minister who takes over the minister and not from every point of view. He didn't do that in this case. It shall adopt an opinion or a decision or notification. Then the Minister says that in this case, in retrospect, he should have done it differently. What will be the line of this minister in the future? Is he going to use his political instincts and indeed ask for and study the underlying documents in some cases, or is it his first statement that the chief of police is about that and that he cannot interfere with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u172	In the relationship between the chief of police and the minister, I must be able to trust him, and that is what I am doing about the statements made by the chief of police. I'm not going to and I can't function if every letter the Chief Constable writes to me has to ask me what the underlying pieces are and ask me to show them. Then the Chief Constable can't function either. We shouldn't want to hang out like this. Another point I should have made is that I should have asked the Chief Constable to take into account that I spoke in the Chamber about the investigation. "One has all questions about how it came about, so make sure there is a document that you can add to your decision for me and that I can forward it to the Chamber." I would like to point out that the letter of 10 June from the Chief Constable to me, which has been made public, contains a very careful consideration. In the end, the Court sees that in the documents the factual material, not being the incriminating or exculpatory personal policy concept of the general commanders, was properly communicated to me by the Chief Constable and then also communicated by me to the Chamber in the letter, also the exculpatory part; the fact that there were no agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u173	I'm just gonna peel it off. We have now heard from the Minister that it should not have "extremely inappropriate and distasteful." We have heard that "non-active" is actually another word for "ending a working relationship." Now we hear that in this case the Minister should have asked the Chief Constable: do an underlying piece in which the facts stand. We do not yet know how the Minister will decide in the future, on which dossiers he will or will not do so. So I would like another answer to that. This is the third debate in which we are discussing similar issues. How is the Minister going to ensure that he is not standing here again next time with the observation: should I have asked for that justification?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u174	Of course, I can't see into the future. It is clear, however, that in situations where there is a clear wish from the Chamber and a commitment from me, I want to ensure that I can provide that information at that time. Now it could not, because it really was an internal investigation, which was only meant to advise the Chief Constable on his decision, which then informed me again as it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u175	The Minister indicated that the black paint is done to make policy ideas of officials illegible. I have here an example of such a black painted piece: 'Research has shown to me, rapporteur, that there is a 'presentation for colleagues' on intranet. In this presentation there are no photos that can be traced back to victims. On intranet it can be seen that the message was changed on 9 April." That's one of those sentences that's painted black. What does this phrase say? This sentence says: Professor Maat made use of a standard presentation and did not go beyond his bounds. That's what it says, exactly. The presentation is ready. It's visible to insiders on intranet. If you blackmail that, then in fact Mr Maat's exculpatory statements are being blackmailed, not a policy view of an official.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u176	Mr Bontes is absolutely wrong about that. That reference is a reference to the presentation I sent to the Chamber with last week's letter. That is a completely different presentation from the presentation given by Mr Maat. By the way, I first discussed with the family detectives and the Stichting Vliegramp MH17 if I could send that presentation to the Chamber, because you have to deal with it very carefully. That is a completely different presentation from Mr Maat's presentation. In this presentation there are no photos that can be traced back to victims. There are no photos in it that can be experienced as shocking. There are photos of victims you see remotely, but those images are also known from the media. It is important that Mr Bontes also knows that there is a very big difference between the presentation available on the intranet and which the Chamber knows by now. This presentation would never have caused any fuss. Nevertheless, I felt that we should ask permission from the next of kin to send that presentation to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u177	If that's true, I don't know, but suppose that's why you're gonna paint it black? You can't explain that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u178	That's a trade-off the National Police has made in handling the WOB request. That is now the subject of a procedure. I don't think it's a good thing I'm walking away from that. However, I have already said that, under the guidance of an external expert, I would like to discuss personal policy ideas, including within my department and all the implementing organisations, because, precisely because of this discussion, which we are actually having for the second time, I would like to ensure that this discussion no longer takes place. I therefore agree with Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u179	In the short time we have had this debate, I have heard a few points which I would like to pass very briefly. First, there's the dismissal decision. The Minister says that the police are responsible for this; as a minister, I have not interfered in the substance of this matter. Then we get the letter from the Chief Constable of 15 June in which the terms "not discreet" and "not careful" appear. The Minister says that this is entirely on the charge of the Chief Constable; I did not interfere with that. And then 90% of the pieces, including the Professor's exculpatory conclusions. According to the Minister, the police did. Up to three times, the Minister fills up the police. How does the Minister see his responsibility in that regard? And exactly what involvement has he had on these three points? Has he controlled anything at all? Or has the police really come to these decisions in complete freedom and responsibility, and are they therefore on the responsibility of the police themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u180	I find it very difficult for Mr Van Nispen to say that I refer to the police over and over again. Those are the facts, but I am entirely, completely and from start to finish politically responsible for everything that happens within my department and within the National Police. So I would like to take away the suggestion that is being made now, that I have only taken one second away from it. That is not the case. That is what I started the debate with, and I repeat it now. However, the police are an independent administrative body within the framework of the Public Administration Act. It also has its own legal personality, as Mr Van Nispen knows without any doubt. This means that the police have their own responsibility, which is governed by the Police Act. I'm still responsible for that, but the Chief of Police and the National Police have their own responsibility. That's why I'm referring to that. The police make their own decision about the WOB procedure and I'm responsible for it. The police make an independent decision about whether or not to end the cooperation relationship with Professor Maat for the identification process MH17. I am responsible for this, but it is decisions that are taken by the police on the basis of the law and on the basis of the division of responsibility that we have. And then the last question: no, I didn't exert any influence. I didn't give you any trouble or any clues as referred to in Article 31 of the Police Act. Nor have I given any instructions regarding any decision. I have already said that on 22 April there was consensus within the department on the decision of the National Police to deactivate Professor Maat. By letter of 15 June, I supported the Chief Constable's decision to end the cooperation relationship with Professor Maat for the MH17. I informed the Chamber on that date as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u181	The Minister rightly acknowledges that he is fully responsible for the situation. This brings us to a very important point, namely the involvement of the Minister and the actual denial that he has in any way steered anything. Because that's how I just asked the question. The Minister therefore did not interfere with the terms "non-discreet" and "not careful" as found in the Chief Constable's letter. Nor has he interfered in any way in coating away exculpatory conclusions. I'm going to raise the question even more. Has there been anyone in the ministry who has taken it up for the Minister and thought: given the emotional remarks about the professor on 23 April, it would be more convenient if certain exculpatory conclusions were painted away and if the Chief Constable's letter states that it is not discreet and not careful? Can the Minister rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u182	We have given full opening of cases regarding the creation of the Chief of Staff's letter. The Chamber knows exactly what was changed there. By the way, when I speak of "me," I also speak on behalf of all my officials. That means I didn't have any influence on that. A question has been asked. It has also been read out by Mr Omtzigt or Mr Sjoerdsma in the first term of the Chamber. It is also clear from the documents that have been handed over. That's how it happened, and that's how it happened. I asked the Chief Constable myself: did I put pressure on him? He said, "No, I've made a decision on my own. And that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u183	I'm curious to hear the story about that letter from Chief Constable Bouman, but I have a brief question for the Minister. Isn't it annoying to find that the whole world doesn't see well that the term "the relationship has ended" means "disabled"? Is it not annoying that the whole world does not see well that the Minister is fully informing the Chamber but thinks 'yes, but that is not information' and that everyone here really thinks that it should not have been confidential from 2 December? So we don't understand the Minister, all of us. We find it very unfortunate that someone should be publicly condemned and that the exculpatory information should be made available in a secret place where we should not even take notes. This is a pattern. We really live in a completely different world than the Minister. I'd like to know what the real world is and what the fake world is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u184	I think Mr Omtzigt and I live in exactly the same world. I am not talking about the conclusions that others draw from the actual course of events. If Mr Omtzigt says that he finds it difficult to follow my reasoning, I find that very unfortunate. So I will do my best to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u185	My world is that all the media and the entire House of Representatives saw that Professor Maat was fired. I can find over a hundred newspaper articles with the word "dismissed" or "dismissed," but the Minister says: no, it was "non-active." My world is that this is not information, but the Minister says this is information. My world is that confidential access was given on 2 December and that we are no longer able to speak with it. The Minister's world is that we can have a debate with it. We can't. I hope the minister gets into the real world soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u186	Now Mr Omtzig paraphrases what I have said wrongly. I informed the Chamber by 2 December at the latest as I thought I should, so with full opening of cases of everything that was in the file. I should have done that earlier, namely on 12 October. I say that again to Mr Omtzigt. And yes, I also agree with Mr Omtzigt that the lacquered document provided by the WOB was not sufficient to inform the Chamber. That is why I restored it on 2 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u187	Between the nose and the lips, the minister mentioned the letter from Chief Bouman who had consequences for Professor Maat, namely the termination of the relationship. There are three versions, two drafts and a final version of that letter. Now it is a coincidence that the draft does not contain a conclusion about Professor Maat and that the final version ultimately concludes that the cooperation will be terminated and that Professor Maat has gone out of line. Many of my colleagues have asked you what actually happened there. Your answer was: my ministry asked only two clarifying questions. That was your answer then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u188	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u189	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I need a run-in. The Minister's answer today is that one of the clarifying questions was: "The first four bullets of the observations are not reflected in the follow-up. In these observations Maat is to blame, but what is the follow-up? For example. no longer used his services, contract terminated (if he does)... in any case appropriate to how he is connected to LTFO." I would not call that a clarifying question, but a heavily guiding question. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u190	No, I do not agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. I think that's a question that can just be asked. That turned out to be the case, because the version of June 9th had not yet seen the corps leadership itself, as I have written. This was then implemented by the corps leadership. I do not think that is a guiding question, but I understand that Mr Sjoerdsma has put it this way in the context of this debate. I can understand that. I don't think so, because I think it's a fair question. In the letter there was a discrepancy between the findings and the conclusions. That question has been asked, but there has been no further discussion. As the answer to question 3 shows, no reply has been received either. Nor has there been any further discussion on this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u191	The Minister therefore does not find it strange that the Chief Constable writes a letter on the basis of facts, a factual account, ultimately on the basis of an opinion from the General Commanders, that that letter is submitted to his ministry and that there is coordination. So he doesn't think it's weird that he first says "that were some clarifying questions" and that now comes out that from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, let me just put it this way, it has been suggested, indirectly, that a harder conclusion might not be wrong. Because the conclusion was not in Mr Bouman's first concept. There was just no conclusion in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u192	Then we just have to look at the facts. It is noted that findings have been made that Professor Maat is to be blamed for this. It asks how this should be followed and gives a number of examples, which Mr Sjoerdsma has read out. I think this is a very logical question to ask. That has not been followed up and there has been no discussion about it. I also think it fits in with our relationship to submit letters to each other. If I answer parliamentary questions, I'll get information from the National Police or the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is what is being agreed, and that is what the Chamber is always properly informed about. That's the only way I can work. The Chief Constable is and will remain entirely and entirely responsible for his own letter, which he sent to me on 10 June. I am responsible for the inferences, namely that I fully endorsed him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u193	There have been all kinds of interventions and there have been heavy traffic between the Ministry and the Corps. There was consensus about ending the cooperation, there was talk about the letter and the black coating of whole parts of the report. Professor Maat grabbed his pencil at a good time and started writing in a notebook, which led to a form of reparation. In the Minister's version, important information would have been kept confidential and only black lacquered parts would have come out via the WOB request. How could the restoration of honour have taken place without Mr Maat's intervention? The answer is that it could not have happened. Because he had been publicly served, a public rehabilitation could never have taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u194	I do not agree with Mr Segers. I would also have come to the conclusion entirely independently that it was appropriate to apologize to Professor Maat for the qualifications I gave on 22 April. In the first term, members of the Court have questioned this, but that has really been an autonomous process. I had to come a long way and made that statement from the emotion I felt at the time. I do not know if Mr Segers remembers it, but in the debate on 23 April everyone, including Members of the Chamber, had the same emotion. Professor Maat's restoration of honour consists of three elements. First of all, those were the excuses I made for my remarks. Secondly, this was the confirmation of his quality, as I stated in detail on 23 April and in all the subsequent letters, also in the letters which I sent to the people who pointed out his situation to the Chamber. Thirdly, the police would like to use their expertise again. Professor Maat stated in the statement and in our conversation that this is sufficient for him. Two of those three elements were already there from 23 April. Then Professor Maat's quality was already established. It was never questioned by me either. The qualification I gave also concerned only the reading, not its quality. In addition, as I confirmed to the Chamber on 23 April, and according to the letter from the Chief Constable of 10 June, cooperation was only definitively terminated for the identification process in the context of the disaster with the MH17. In this way, there has always been a restoration of honour on two of the three parts. I'm glad Professor Maat can see that, too, in combination with the apologies I've offered him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u195	Professor Maat got a lot of slaps in the publicity until yesterday from MP Teeven when he talked about a left-wing, dreary professor. Those are the taps he's been getting. That which would be exculpatory was painted black through the WOB procedure, or would have been kept confidential in the ideal scenario of the Minister, in which MPs could not have done anything and could not have quoted. Information that would have been exculpatory for him and could have led to public reclamation could not have been brought out. That's an unworkable situation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u196	No, because the fact of ending cooperation is still standing. That's just still the way it is. The chief of police and I agree on that, too. The restoration of honour consists of elements unrelated to the investigation. In the letter of 10 June, the Chief Constable also included the exculpatory elements, which I took over in my letter to the Chamber. The crux is that there was not enough regulation within the LTFO to blame Professor Maat for having given that lecture. Nevertheless, the Chief Constable, and as Mr Segers now knows, also the Commanders General, comes to the conclusion that he could indeed be blamed, albeit that the commanders say that he should not only be charged individually, but certainly also with the organisation. That is exactly the tone of the letters of the Chief Constable and me from June 10th and June 15th respectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u197	There's a lot of questions coming to me. The Minister is now saying something very interesting: on 2 December I knew, and then I was thinking about maybe someday making an excuse. If the Minister had made this excuse before 4 January, when Professor Maat made it public, we would not have had a debate in this Chamber today. Then the Minister would have come to the conclusion that a mistake had been made. That would have been a little late. But it was necessary that it became public; that is the experience of everyone here. What did the Minister consider in the period between 2 December, when he was supposed to know the file, whatever that may mean, and 4 January, when it became public? He was told from several quarters, up to and including the President of the Supreme Court, that excuses were in place. She's said that several times in public. Behind the scenes, the Minister has been told several times: make those excuses. Was the Minister busy, is he now saying that he was almost about to apologize, or is he saying: I think if I had ever read it, I would still have apologized?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u198	The apologies I made are separate from the file of December 2. The minute I said it, I was behind it. I've found that for a long time. Looking over everything, looking back at my statements, I've established that I shouldn't have done that, that I should have done that more business. That's how I'd do it right now. That is what I have just said: in the same situation, I would, with the experience I have now, do it differently. Then I would have reacted more procedurally and more businesslikely. When I drew that conclusion for myself, I said: then I also want to apologize to Professor Maat. This is without prejudice to the fact that I had an excellent open and good conversation with him in September. In it we discussed all the ins and outs we wanted to discuss over and over again. But we're not going to make any further announcements about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u199	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u200	On 23 September there was indeed an open conversation. Well, that's so open that, despite five parliamentary questions, the Chamber never got a report of that conversation. Professor Maat wanted to send a report, but the minister didn't want it. There's no excuses. I would ask the Minister to read out the note he received from his officials about this discussion, especially the first and second paragraphs. Then we know exactly how people think. I'll give the note to the minister through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u201	I don't need to read a memo. That memo is part of the documents I sent to the Chamber. That is an official advice to me, as a minister, in which my officials write that it would not be a good idea to apologize. It is up to me as a minister to find out what I think of that, and I have also found that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u202	It says the cold has to be taken out of the air. It says that we must ensure that there are no more difficult media and parliamentary questions on this file. It has nothing to do with apology. It also says very loudly that they want to blame RTL. There wouldn't be any excuses. It would only happen to MPs and the media to take wind out of the sails. Is that how the conversation happened? By the way, that file, that whole black file, it's been taking dust for months. The Minister did not request the file or the summary of ten pages before he entered the conversation. What was the exact reason he didn't want the file, he persisted in not apologizing and he wanted to prevent the media and especially MPs from getting back on this difficult file, while he had no further purpose in the conversation? Will the Minister please read the first three, four sentences of that memo?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u203	I do not need to read out memos that all members of the Chamber have, because they are public documents. So I'm not gonna do that. It's official advice. In fact, we are discussing this: what path are we going to take when we make official opinions public? I'm talking about the conversations I'm having. Officials are free to give handles, as it is called. The paraphrase given by Mr Omtzigt is highly coloured. Reference is made to a comment made by Mr Maat himself on RTL. It is now known what steps Professor Maat has taken against this. I do not share Mr Omtzig's view of this. This is exactly the debate you get into when you publish official documents. Reflecting on this, I think that perhaps we should think very carefully about how sensible that is. I'm talking about my own conversations. I know exactly what happened in the conversation with Professor Maat and how it went. I didn't apologize back then. That goes without saying, because I did so in response to my reflection in December and early January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u204	Mr President, I have a personal fact. Actually, a fact. The Minister says I shouldn't ask for this kind of stuff. The reason why we are asking for this is because we did not get a report from the conversation. If we had received a report on what was discussed at the time, we would not have had to ask for the official note. But that was deliberately not done, over and over again. There's a pattern. First black documents are provided, then the interview report is not provided, then the secret is provided, so that we are not allowed to talk about it, and now it is said that I should not have provided those other documents. If the Minister had first provided documents, we would not have had this whole debate. That pattern needs to be broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u205	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u206	I would like to thank Mr Omtzigt for his clarification. I did not say that the Chamber should not ask for it; the Chamber should ask for anything. I'm not going over what the Chamber is asking for. I have chosen to make the information available, but I do specify what the consequences are. The serious question is, after all, what such a note will look like in the next case. That's all I find out. It is further up to the Chamber to take something out of it or not. It has been my choice to hand over this document, precisely to show that all the suggestions made over the past few months are simply not on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u207	It is now beginning to appear that the Minister is about to press charges against the Chamber, when I would have expected a somewhat humble and apologizing minister here who would say that he has made some crucial mistakes in this file, and who would acknowledge that he is system-responsible and therefore responsible for what is happening within the police. I expected the Minister to give me some clues: this is what I'm going to do differently. Now I almost hear that it is our fault that memos have been sent to the Chamber, that the Minister regrets it, that he would rather not have done so and that we should not ask any further questions about it now. I would like to ask the Minister to look at his attitude in this debate and to see a much more cavalier recognition of the things that have gone wrong, which the Chamber has just found out, precisely because those memos are in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u208	I really don't recognize myself in the image Mrs Van Tongeren is sketching right now. I am just saying to Mr Omtzigt that it is entirely up to the Chamber to ask questions; whatever the Chamber wishes to ask. It is up to the government to make a choice in what it then does with it. All I've said is what the consequences could be. I've weighed those consequences. Nevertheless, I have decided to make the documents public. That's my decision. There is no insinuation in the direction of the Chamber. So I don't recognize myself in what Mrs Van Tongeren says. If Mrs Van Tongeren then asks me if I am taking lessons from this, my answer is yes. I have already given a number of examples of this. That's also appropriate. If things have happened and if there is a debate like this one, then you can only see that things have happened that should have happened differently. Otherwise, this debate would have been avoided. I would have liked that, because we wouldn't have had this discussion if it hadn't happened. I should have tried to prevent that in a respectful and good way, as it fits within a relationship between the Chamber and the government. That's not true, so that means I'm taking lessons from it. I've already given you those lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u209	That is an answer to part of my question. The Minister's line of defence often refers to the police, who have all kinds of independent powers. The other part of my question was therefore about system responsibility. The Minister is ultimately responsible for the whole system. The constant reference to the police then shoots me in the wrong throat and, in my opinion, is not justified either, given the situation. It's just something that falls under the system responsibility of this minister. I'd like to get that confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u210	I have just confirmed that to Mr Van Nispen. I opened with that. I confirmed it to Mr Omtzigt. I am and will remain entirely politically responsible for all the services and all the 100,000 officials that are under me. I'm not gonna take that away from you, and I haven't done anything about that either. However, I did point out that the National Police has its own legal personality and that it is its own administrative body within the framework of the Public Administration Act. It also has independent powers under the Police Act, for which I quote from the Acts which have not yet been published, and I am fully responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u211	A final interruption to this point. I propose that the Minister continue his speech, because he has been working for almost an hour and a half and he has only done about twelve minutes of his contribution. I call Mr Van Nispen. However, I also see Mr Recourt. He hasn't interrupted yet, so it's hard for me to say no to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u212	We are forced to interrupt at this point and we were also forced to request those internal memos, because this is the important point of providing information to the Chamber. The internal memos show how the minister was prepared for a meeting with the professor. If the Minister does not want to read it out in reply to Mr Omtzig's question, I will have to quote from it, because the Minister accused my colleague that he did not do so carefully. "The goal of the conversation is to "get the cold out of the sky" in the relationship with Professor Maat and to make sure that the subject is not always stirred up in the media and by MPs." Handles for the conversation: "Don't apologize." The Minister has been warned in this way and all kinds of critical questions have been asked by my colleagues, but nevertheless the Minister does not request the complete dossier, also an option recommended to him in the internal memo. That is how the Minister enters into such a discussion, and that is how the Minister answers Parliament's questions. I just don't understand that. I also don't understand why the Minister didn't go looking for the truth. Can the Minister explain to me why he didn't think "I want to know exactly what's going on and I'm going to tell the Chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u213	Because the chief of police informed me of his decision, a decision he made on the basis of his authority. I endorsed that decision in my letter to the Chamber of 15 June. That is also my relationship with the Chief Constable: I must be able to assume it and I assume that the Chief Constable has fully informed me about it. That's right, because he got a document he had to judge. On that basis, he drew conclusions, which I subsequently endorsed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u214	This is certainly completely incomprehensible. You make a statement that hurts a professor, and then there's months of fuss about it. The professor calls the bell and also all kinds of people who sympathize with him say to the minister "you did this wrong." Members of parliament ask critical questions and the minister is also warned in a memo: pay attention, get the cold out of the air, otherwise this will be a fuss. Nevertheless, the Minister says: well, I just trust that things have been the way they have been. In response to follow-up questions, he also referred to the police: it would be the responsibility of the police. I find the Minister's statement that he has not been involved in any way, in fact, simply unbelievable. The fact that he didn't want to know exactly, I also think... let me just say: I find that unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u215	That judgment is up to Mr Van Nispen. I only note that the Chief Constable has informed me of the two essentialia that have motivated him to make his decision. That happened under my responsibility. I say that, because I am just trying to ensure that, even now by Mr Van Nispen, the suggestion is always raised that I should distance myself from it. I do not renounce my responsibility in any way, but I will explain what the facts are. If the suggestion is raised that I am renouncing my responsibility, I am far from it. I'm just responsible for everything that's happening and for any decision that's taken anywhere in my organization, including the Chief Constable. But he has a responsibility of his own and he has taken responsibility on the basis of the document you know. I have informed the Chamber about this, and it is clear that there are two things. Firstly, there were not enough appointments and secondly, I made a personal complaint to Professor Maat. We now know that this was also a reproach of the general commanders, but they only draw a different conclusion from the chief of police. But it is up to the Chief Constable to draw a stand-alone conclusion, a conclusion that I subsequently endorsed. That's how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u216	The discussion between the Minister and the Chamber focuses on the question of what to tell the Chamber confidentially. It is therefore a question of information to which the Chamber cannot respond. At least that's what this case is all about. Mr Omtzigt asked the Minister to come up with a document explaining how he sees the scope of Article 68 of the Constitution. I myself asked the Minister what should be done in cases where the Chamber and the Minister disagree on what should be kept confidential for inspection. Can the Minister come back to the question of how we can resolve this properly? I'm asking because this has to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u217	I fully agree with Mr Recourt. I also intended to say to Mr Recourt that I will consider, in consultation with Mr Plasterk of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whether the 2002 note could be revised, including on that point, and that I will inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u218	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u219	Mr President, I now come to the questions that have been asked. I have answered many questions in the meantime in the debate. Mr Recourt asked about the state of play in the follow-up of the measures at the LTFO. In my letter of 14 January, I indicated that. The Chief Constable has ordered that the cooperation with third parties be formalized. All employees have been informed that permission should be requested for each presentation. The members of the LTFO who are not employed by the police will sign a contract containing agreements on the handling of confidential information. In addition, a working group has been set up by the LTFO, which includes doctors, a medical ethicist and a lawyer. That working group will examine how and what lessons the LTFO can draw from what has happened in recent months. Furthermore, consideration will be given to how the LTFO can continue to contribute to scientific purposes. As I said in the debate on 23 April, I attach particular importance to the fact that it is perhaps a good thing that I say that once again, in this kind of process, there remains the possibility of informing colleagues about experiences gained in an identification process such as MH17. A number of members have asked questions about the implementation of the WED procedure by the National Police. I have already said a great deal about the considerations made by the National Police. Those considerations are also the subject of the current objection procedure. One of the lessons that I myself draw is that it is important, as I have also written, that in the discussion on WED procedures................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In the meantime, in December, before all this happened, I decided to deal with the WOB procedures in a new way and to contact them much more often, especially for journalists, as regards the question: what exactly do you want and how can we best support you? I attach great importance to transparency and openness. Mr Recourt also asked for a letter on improving the protection of the privacy of the deceased. I've been thinking about that for a while. It is indeed a complex point of departure, because in the event of death a great deal of importance is lost, for example the portrait law, to which Mr Recourt referred. I shall continue to think about this and send a letter to the Chamber on the ideas I have on it and on the problems we have encountered in connection with this case. Mr Recourt also asked whether, as a political officer for the police organisation, I have sufficient control over that organisation. My perception is that it is. Of course, I speak with the Chief Constable on a regular basis when there are matters of concern to me. However, I have not found any structural shortcomings in the organisation. I'm coming to class. My first lesson, which is also the basis for the apology I made to Professor Maat, is that I should have responded more businesswise on April 22, when I heard and experienced what had happened and how the relatives responded to it. I also note that there would have been a lot of discussion about the internal report of the National Police if there had been an opportunity to separate the facts from the personal policy views of the general commanders and if the fact story had been sent to the Chamber by the chief of police. That's lesson two. Lesson number three is, as I have already said in the direction of Mr Omtzigt, that I should not try to say the same in different terms, in order to have a later discussion on how that is intended. Lesson number four is next, and I find it very important in the traffic of me as Minister with the Chamber. I had absolutely on 12 October, when I fulfilled the commitment I had made, namely by sending the police's WED documents to the Chamber................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's what I've written. The last point, lesson number five, is that, as I have already written to the Chamber, I am going to pursue an active policy to look again at the WED procedures as they are carried out under my responsibility, because the discussion on, in particular, the personal policy concept should be a thing of the past as far as I am concerned. In any case, what does and does not fall under personal policy considerations should be more precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u220	Have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u221	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u222	I am not yet going to take those lessons, although I have a few things to say about them. But I would now like to take back an open question from the first term and refer to what the Minister has replied. First, we asked him about the facts. That didn't happen. Then we asked him when he knew the facts. The Minister's reply was: this minister may be deemed to know the complete dossier from 2 December. I have asked the Minister when he has taken that facts and I would simply like an answer now. When did this minister see the facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u223	That's complicated, although it's a very easy question. You can and should be able to address me on everything in the file from 2 December. That is the moment when I received it and sent it. I read it then, of course, during the Christmas holidays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u224	Let me be very clear about this, because at the end of the Minister's input I do not want to play word games in order to explain the fog that causes his wordings. Does the Minister now say that he did not take the facts until after 2 December? I hope he can confirm or deny this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u225	I am very sorry, but I really have to give a formal answer to this. I may be considered and should be deemed to know the facts of the matter from 2 December. At that time I received it and forwarded it to the Chamber for confidential inspection. That's right. From that moment on, you may address me on the content. Then it's irrelevant when I read it myself. Of course I did, but from the moment I received it, I also knew it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u226	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u227	Thank you for your coulance, Mr. Chairman. Let me ask the question for the third time, again differently. Does the Minister say that he didn't see the facts and didn't know the facts before 2 December?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u228	I sent the WOB documents to the Chamber on 12 October. Everything that wasn't painted out of there, I knew at the time. On 2 December I received the complete file and the complete file is one of my knowledge. I have not received other documents on this, except for the information I have already provided to the Chamber, for example in response to the questions which I believe Mr Sjoerdsma asked, on which presentations there had been. That was information that came out of the file and I also informed the Chamber about it in response to questions. All that information together belongs to my knowledge. Before 2 December, I did not see the unpainted pieces and other information I gave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u229	I have a few outstanding questions in a moment, but first I would like to ask a question about this. The minister just said in a subtlety that he didn't read the pieces on 2 December but only on Christmas holidays. It is interesting for us to know whether it was before or after 4 January, when it became public and politically necessary. With this confession from the Minister, he admits that there is a huge difference with confidential access: MPs cannot talk about it anyway, so I don't have to read those documents at all. If he had sent it publicly to the Chamber, he would have read it himself immediately on 2 December, because he would have been able to expect questions about it from journalists and MPs. The fact that the Minister now admits that he did not do so until weeks later makes the point made by Mr Segers, Mr Sjoerdsma and myself very clear: no one was supposed to read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u230	I really do not follow Mr Omtzigt's reasoning. I am sorry, because I can always follow Mr Omtzig very well in many arguments. On 2 December I received the document. On 2 December, I forwarded the document to the Chamber. From that moment on, the document belongs to my knowledge. There has been no intention or thought whatsoever behind that. The only thing I had to deal with was that it was an internal report from the National Police; I have already explained this in detail. I felt that the Chamber should have had that, and I think that the Chamber should have had that earlier, namely by 12 October at the latest. That's when I should've made that assessment. There is no other form of thought, or whatever Mr Omtzigt suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u231	Has the Minister read the file completely before or after 4 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u232	I took the whole file with me on Christmas vacation. I think I took 99% at the time. I have often read the dossier again after January, including in the preparation for this debate and in the answers to the various questions that have been asked. But as of 2 December, the file belongs to my knowledge. Whether I read it or not is irrelevant. A minister is judged on the basis of the knowledge he should have. If he receives a document in his department, that will be a part of his knowledge. The same applies to this dossier from 2 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u233	Finally, I would like to make one further comment: after that, I will list the questions that have not yet been answered. This shows the difference between confidential and public access. In public access, if you send the Chamber in public documents, no minister or secretary of state in the country will get in his head to send a piece of unread to the Chamber. You'd be lynched by the cameras! It is precisely the fact that it was a matter of confidential inspection that allowed the Minister not to even take note of this and not even ask about the file for two and a half weeks; the Christmas holiday did not begin until 20 December, when it was sent to the Chamber on 2 December. The following questions are still open. Firstly, Maat was given access to an incomplete file. Why did he have access to a file at the end of November, when he first had access to it, from which precisely the two documents that were exculpatory for him were missing? The Minister referred to an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma about the three letters from Chief Constable Bouman, but I asked a specific question: should the Chief Constable submit his letters on a police investigation, which takes place independently of a ministry, to the government up to two or three times? Should he be given specific advice on it, if they'd like to fire him, please? Is it still an independent police investigation? And why does the Minister continue to secretly inform the Chamber? Why are phrases like "there has been no understanding and information" painted away? Those three questions have not been answered. They may also be answered immediately after the suspension, as an additional tail of the first period. I think these are important questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u234	Can the Minister answer that directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u235	Yes, but then Mr Omtzigt will have to help me, because they were a lot of questions. The first question was about Professor Maat. On 4 September, in the conversation between Professor Maat and the Police Chief of the National Unit, the right of inspection was explicitly brought to the attention of Professor Maat. On 23 November, he saw the investigation file. That's the file that was delivered to the SGBO by the investigators, even before the commanders' verdict. That didn't include the internal memo with the general commanders' advice. Professor Maat has known the existence of the opinion since the conclusion of the study and knew the content of the opinion. He was also reminded by his inspection on 23 November of the absence of this internal memo. At his inspection on 17 December, the internal memo was inserted. The meeting of 17 December was postponed to 4 January because Professor Maat was prevented from doing so, but he knew when he saw on 23 November that this was not there. On 4 September, he was expressly informed that he had the right to inspect the investigation. In reply to Parliament's questions, I have already said that no confidentiality has been imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u236	Have all the questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u237	No, because I haven't answered two questions yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u238	I do have a question about this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u239	Just hold off on that, because the minister wasn't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u240	But I'm afraid it's three completely different topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u241	You'll have to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u242	The second point was about the Chief Constable's letters, if I recall correctly. As far as I know, it is customary in the relationship between the Minister and the Chief Constable to submit letters relating to subjects for which they have a joint responsibility and for which the Minister must assume the ultimate political responsibility. There has been no influence or suggestion, unlike Mr Omtzigt knows. We have checked this and I have once again been confirmed by the Chief Constable that there has been no influence whatsoever on the independent opinion of the Chief Constable on the termination of the cooperation relationship between Mr Maat and the National Police for the identification process of the MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u243	Can I just ask a question about this, Mr. Chairman? Otherwise, I have to save my questions on three completely different subjects. Above the note received by the Minister on 8 June, so not on 11 June, so even before the letters are written, it says: "There is still consultation with the police about the letter from the police to Schoof. Use from the NCTV can be removed under the heading Follow-up, first paragraph, last sentence." Then the NCTV and Schoof still ask the police executive questions to remove cases from that letter and add cases? Isn't that the independence of that police investigation just of no value or nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u244	No, because this isn't about the investigation, it's about the Chief Constable's consideration. The Chief Constable has a separate responsibility for this. In the relationship between the department and the police, suggestions can be made in a variety of areas. The other way around, that also happens with great regularity. I'll ask the police for advice if I answer any parliamentary questions that relate to matters that concern the police. It is perfectly logical that you cooperate with each other in this way, but in the end the chief of police has made his own way. That's what he reported to me on June 10th. You can make suggestions about that. By the way, I didn't think the suggestion was very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u245	I believe that a further question from Mr Omtzigt has remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u246	I have a follow-up question. This is not a suggestion: we do not understand. I could imagine that. It says: we have the commitment from the Ministry to get certain sentences and not in the letter. Bouman's first letter doesn't say anything bad about Professor Maat. It doesn't say he's getting fired, but in the third letter, he is. Meanwhile, memos are sent back and forth. Was there any direct influence from the Ministry on the police summit, so that Chief Constable Bouman made different conclusions than he presented in a draft letter the day before? I am shocked by this in relations within the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u247	There has been no such influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u248	I think there's been a question left. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u249	Mr Omtzigt had one final question. He needs to help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u250	Mr Omtzigt, one last time and one last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u251	Why does the Minister continue to secretly inform the Chamber? The fact story with incriminating sentences, for example that there has been no understanding and information, is not made public on 12 October and on 2 December, with such factual sentences in it. The same applies to the sentence which Mr Bontes said, namely that there was another presentation available. The Minister explained what was in that presentation, but that was not the portee of my question or of Mr Bontes' question. The question was why these very factual sentences, which really have nothing to do with policy ideas, are not only made public in the context of the WOB, but are not even made public to the Chamber. Why should we not know in the open of such facts that are annoying to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u252	I do not regard these facts as annoying to the Minister at all. It is the judgment of general commanders that is part of the judge and decision-making of the chief of police himself. That is where decision-making takes place. The Chief Constable briefed me on this and I informed the Chamber about it. I sent those pieces neatly to the Chamber, complete with everything, albeit confidentially because it is an internal report from the National Police. I should have done so earlier, as I have repeatedly confirmed in the direction of Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u253	The Minister just outlined the lessons learned from this debate and the course that preceded it. I am missing a very important aspect which, in my view, is the only fact that we are standing here with each other, namely dealing with lectures where a balance has to be struck between the possible confrontation for relatives and the need to develop a profession. Can the Minister explain what lessons have been learned, what we may change in them and what measures can we expect in addition to what has been written?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u254	I've already written about it and I've already said something about it. I have always said, also in the debate on 23 April, that I think it is very important that information can be exchanged among colleagues of mine. We have agreed that only with the consent of the next of kin will photos be used that can be traced back to specific victims. The same exchange took place on 23 April. The LTFO has already taken a number of measures and is looking at how to handle information carefully. Of course, I will inform the Chamber as soon as the LTFO has taken a decision on this matter. I fully agree with Mr Van Oosten that it must be done carefully, but it must be done. It cannot be that we cannot use all the knowledge, skills and experience that we are now gaining as a result of this terrible disaster to ensure that the people concerned, the experts concerned, can do their job better in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u255	I'd like to see that. I would therefore like to see the extent to which it is desirable to distinguish between the MH17 and the horrors surrounding it and other disasters which have unfortunately occurred in the past and which are likely to occur in the future or disasters of a smaller scale. Why should there be a difference? I would also like to receive a further explanation from the Minister in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u256	I will take this into account in the written reporting of the results of the research that the LTFO is still doing together with the medical ethicist, the doctor and the lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u257	This is a debate the Minister says he prefers not to have. The same goes for us, the MPs, and for me. The reason for this debate was statements that were made and the months that followed. In the relationship between the Minister and Professor Maat, they resulted in the Minister's apologies. We have now had a whole debate here on all kinds of details, letters, sending letters, comments and the interaction between the police and the ministry. That is what we have asked our questions about and answers have been given. I'm trying to step back now. The bewilderment or, let me say, the concern that lives on this side, in the Chamber, wide is the next. Here we were dealing with a professor who was assertive, who took a pencil and a notebook, who was going to write, who ran his own defense and who was quite successful in doing so. He got political support. At the same time, we see a pattern of information that is painted black and information that is confidential. We've had the whole discussion. Can the Minister imagine that the enormous inconvenience that is felt here eventually goes back to the observation that if you are assertive enough, you will manage to recover and get excuses and that, if you are not assertive, you could be ground up by such machinery?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u258	I understand that concern, of course. It is for a minister to ensure that this does not happen. This is a very exceptional situation. The coincidence in the relations between the National Police and the Ministry also makes this a more complicated debate than it would be in a normal situation, a situation where there would be no differences of responsibility. I can, of course, reassure Mr Segers. In my opinion, this exceptional situation does not occur very often. However, I share the concern and the commitment is, of course, always to do justice to everyone, regardless of whether they are active people or those who do less. That is an absolute starting point in all the policies we pursue with regard to the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, parole and prison services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u259	There's another kind of reflection. We must, of course, also think ourselves about what this whole affair is saying. The jumping point is really that also people who do not stand their backs and fight back are done right. People who are less mature, less assertive, must be treated in the same way. In that case, we should not go into blackmailing information and keeping things that are exculpatory confidential. What is the guarantee that people in a rule of law will receive decent and fair treatment, given what has happened in this exceptional case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u260	I do not entirely agree with Mr Segers that there has been no fair treatment here. I can see his concerns. I understand the argument. Of course, I followed it well. I can only say that the rule of law itself guarantees that. We have a rule of law. We have very careful arrangements that allow people to stand up for themselves, whether through experts or not. I am not concerned about this, but I do understand that Mr Segers is expressing it. He can always talk to me about it. Of arbitrariness, détournement de pouvoir and the use of powers where that does not belong and in all kinds of other areas simply cannot and cannot be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u261	There's a question that lingers with me. Suppose Professor Maat hadn't been so eager to fight with pen and paper and write a whole report. Then what happened to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u262	That has just been Mr Segers' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u263	Yeah, but there's no answer. It is a very important question, because it has led to an apology and we are now standing here. What would have happened if it hadn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u264	I don't think there'd have been a lot of different things going on. We hadn't had a lot of discussion. In any case, I would have come to the conclusion that I apologize to Professor Maat for my remarks, which I afterwards felt I should have kept more business. So that wouldn't have made the difference. Then there are the elements of the restoration of honour that I have already established: the apology plus the confirmation of Professor Maat's quality and the fact that the National Police will gladly use him again if necessary. Let's hope it's not necessary, because if they've fallen, they're serious. I have already indicated this explicitly to the Chamber, to Professor Maat and to third parties. Not much else had happened at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u265	I don't think we would have been standing here right now and the minister in his castle was smoking a cigar, because I don't believe that Maat had apologized.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u266	I am sorry, but I too agree with the questions put by Mr Segers and Mr Bontes. The Minister says that he had apologized in any case, but we cannot, of course, control that alternative course. However, I note that every step taken in this dossier has come not from the Minister, but from the Chamber, the media and Professor Maat, and every step in the matter of apology. So why does the Minister think that the situation would have been exactly the same if that one gentleman, Professor Maat, hadn't picked up the pencil and made this public? Would the Minister have done that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u267	Recording the pencil was not part of my reflection on the qualifications I gave Professor Maat in the evening on 22 April in the emotion of that moment. That is what I said earlier in the debate. The other two aspects which were of interest to Professor Maat and led to his conclusion that in his opinion there was sufficient restoration of honour were already there: the confirmation, also to the Chamber, in September that the National Police would like to use his services again and confirm his quality. I explicitly mentioned this in the debate on 23 April, because I thought that was the right thing to do. I still think so. One of the points is that Professor Maat and I have found together that precisely because of my qualifications a cloud has occurred in my perception of his quality and expertise. I thought it was okay to take that away. I had to come a long way. I have long felt that it was and afterwards I feel that I should have done it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u268	The minister had to come a long way; the minister had to come a long way. The minister had to be dragged with his hair. Finally, as far as I am concerned, those five lessons. The Minister mentioned them all at the end of his speech. Are those the only lessons the Minister would like to draw from this dossier today in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u269	Yes, because those are the lessons from which I say that we should have taken a different approach, given the individual points we discussed today in this debate. Then we would have had a completely different situation. That is all with the knowledge of today, because at the time when the internal investigation was carried out by the National Police, there was absolutely no reason to ask for a specific factual account, because I did not yet know what that would look like. On 10 June and 15 June there was no reason to ask for any underlying documents, as there was no reason to do so in the relationship between Chief of Police and Minister. In the context of the discussion on my commitment to the National Police WOB procedure, there was no reason to do so at that time other than I did. But with the knowledge of now, in retrospect, I was able to draw the lessons I have now learned. I have not only learned those lessons, but I will also practice them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u270	I too am not convinced that the outcome would have been exactly the same without this extremely assertive citizen. My feeling about this minister is that he thinks: if I don't know, I can't have a problem with it either. He says he's about to implement the five lessons he's learned. I would like to know from the Minister how he is going to do that, so that we feel a little bit more that it is actually going to happen. You may have all kinds of good intentions, but the Minister has made a big mistake three times, three times, on three files. Behaviour from the past does not guarantee the future, but does not offer that guarantee. So how is the Minister going to implement this for himself and how is he going to implement it as a system manager? Indeed, a number of the conclusions were also concerned with the coherence and cooperation of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u271	Firstly, I am going to report on this, because I am taking it into account in the improvement process that I started last year. I do so in the annual report for 2016, so all these points are reported to the Chamber and publicly. Very specific with regard to the Public Administration Act, I will attract external experts at short notice to ensure that the treatment providers of WOB requests are assisted with advice. So we are constantly implementing that we are thinking about the question of personal policy concepts and what it is like to look at them afterwards. The trick is not just to see if it is a personal policy idea or not and then to look at what information you provide. I am now involved in the project myself because I think it is an important project. Those are examples of how you're gonna do it. The other lessons are lessons to myself and the Chamber may assume from me that those lessons have been properly drawn by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u272	"Accept" and "truthfully drawn"? No, I specifically asked how the Minister is going to implement that. I have another question. In criminal law, we have the concept of "directing information." Our Minister is undoubtedly aware of that. How is he going to prevent the pressure from the Justice Department, which I believe has been there, from being felt by the police in the future as "sending information"? Then it may not be formally a service assignment, but I can imagine that the police people listening to this debate have gotten quite a rage and that they really feel that the sending information came from the Ministry and that the Minister says that they are just free to do their own thing, that he is only system responsible and that in the ultimate case he comes to terms with it. In particular, I would like to hear from the Minister a little more than that the Chamber can honestly assume that he is going to do things differently from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u273	There was no steering, either on 22 April or on 10 June. Mrs Van Tongeren also knows the chief of police; it is not someone who is easily sent. That's the way it's supposed to be. He really has his own responsibility under the law, and he has also used it. There's been no reason for any kind of steering. That's not the point. It is his complete freedom to arrive at independent judgments within his powers. I'm never gonna take anything away from that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u274	Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 45 minutes. Mr. Sjoerdsma? You're a little slow walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u275	I am not used to interrupting the chairman, but may I suggest that this break not only separates the moment between the first and the second term, but is also a dinner break and thus becomes a little longer than you propose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u276	And what's longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u277	Shall we reserve an hour and 15 minutes for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u278	Let me see if there's a need for that. I don't see any protests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u279	The next item is the second term of office, but Mr Omtzigt has a short procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u280	On behalf of the groups of the CDA, D66, the SP, the PVV, Bontes/Van Klaveren, GroenLinks and the Christian Union, I would ask you to suspend the sitting for another twenty minutes and to continue at 8.05 p.m. We guarantee we'll be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u281	I note that there are no objections to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u282	We will continue with the second term of the Chamber in the debate on the investigation of Professor Maat. Speaking time is two minutes, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u283	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has given answers, but these came only when they were enforced. Professor Maat had to overwrite the story himself. Otherwise, this debate would not have happened. The Minister admitted that he sent documents to the Chamber that he didn't read until weeks later. He just doesn't read his pieces. Four times Parliamentary questions were not enough just to light a file to see what was going on. Of course, this is not the most important dossier, but still. We have doubts about the relationship with the National Police. How do you deal with it? Some sort of pattern emerges with this minister: he finds it difficult to simply send information to the Chamber in the constitutional way. I think it's okay that he indicates that he has five improvement plans. I also welcome the fact that he is presenting a note on Article 68 of the Constitution. I say: take the European information system with you. However, we believe that he should consult with the Prime Minister on the way in which he deals with requests for information from the Chamber. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the Minister for Security and Justice himself acknowledged that he should have taken a different approach to the matter of Professor Maat;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Security and Justice has once again provided the Chamber with little generous information in this matter and that consultations with the police have been extremely difficult;]] [[Considers that the Chamber should at all times have the information necessary to monitor the conduct of the Government;]] [[Notes that in future, the Minister for Security and Justice should be more careful in dealing with the obligation to provide information under Article 68 of the Constitution;]] [[calls on the Minister of Security and Justice, together with the Prime Minister, to draw up a plan on how to deal more effectively with requests for information from the Chamber in future and to report together on the implementation of the improvements announced by him before 1 March 2016 to the Lower House of States General,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Segers, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Bontes and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u284	Mr. Chairman. I find this a difficult debate on a serious issue, namely a professor who has been wrongly damaged by the Minister. If this professor hadn't written down the truth with pencil, there might never have been an excuse. It kind of feels like a forced excuse to me anyway. The minister says "sorry" because he got caught. I miss some reflection on the Minister's own role. There is no excuse to the Chamber for failing to provide information and there is no complacency. The Minister refers to the police, because according to him the wrong decisions were made there. However, there have been many times when the Minister should have and could have taken responsibility. I have not seen a minister eagerly seeking the truth in this matter at any time. Nor does his attitude show that it has really been learned from it. My group therefore lacks the confidence that we will not be back on a similar issue in a few weeks or months' time. That's why I can't help but table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses confidence in the Minister of Security and Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u285	Mr. Chairman. The Minister's apology to Professor Maat had to come a long way, a long way. The minister has declared them publicly, but only when he had no choice, after nine months. They were forced excuses. Because if the professor himself hadn't made it, and if the professor himself hadn't dragged on, to use the words of the VVD, then it was doubtful whether these excuses had come. The minister also repented leanly for the course of Maat's dismissal. He points to the chief of police: he made the decision and the general commanders' judgment doesn't matter very much. That wouldn't have changed the decision either, the Minister says. I expected more reflection on that. The Minister has named five lessons: more business reacting, better formulating, more public through the WOB and more information to the House of Representatives. With this, the Minister promises to get better, but he can never, and certainly not for this minister, be free of obligation. That is why my group has supported the CDA's hard motion. That is a motion with a clear deadline, namely 1 March, which strengthens the Minister's points of improvement in such a way that we can actually see whether the Minister is in a different position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u286	Mr. Chairman. I noticed during the Minister's reply that he learned to stay close to his message. That's a message of chance and improbability. There's nothing else I can do. For example, the chief of police's draft letters seem to have come to the minister from nothing. There's an uncomfortable pattern. An incident is almost always the fault of another and not of the minister. The facts are collected and studied only when there is no other way. Until then, the Minister lacks real curiosity to find out what is going on under his reign. It's like what doesn't know doesn't matter. Apologies and openness must be enforced by the Chamber. This culture really needs to be broken. The Minister has taken five lessons, but at least he has not given me the feeling that they have been internalized and are being carried out. That is why GroenLinks is under the motion tabled by Mr Omtzigt. We take that motion as a form of enhanced supervision. I ask the Minister to be aware that GroenLinks thinks he should be under enhanced supervision to see if these lessons are actually going to be carried out. It was a dime on his side for my group, but with this motion we assume that this really is the last major incident at this ministry and under this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u287	Mr. Chairman. It was a difficult debate this afternoon and at the beginning of the evening. It obviously didn't go well around the file research Professor Maat. The main causes are the provision of information to the Chamber and the treatment of a citizen. It wasn't very nice last year either, but the Minister admitted mistakes, apologized to Professor Maat and drew five lessons. Actually, that's the most important thing. It has to be better. I welcome the commitment that the Minister will explain in a letter how Article 68 and the confidentiality of documents to the Chamber should be shaped. I am glad that there is also a broader view of how you act with respect, especially with regard to the images of people who have died, in relation to other interests. I will conclude with a quote from the investigation that we discussed all afternoon, with a recommendation from the leaders of the investigation into MH17. They conclude under point 7: "Learning is difficult if you are directly excluded from participation in the future in case of errors. Take action from this perspective." Let us look at that perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u288	Mr. Chairman. We have had an intensive debate. The whole issue is hard on the mind of the Christian Union. This issue about Professor Maat affects several elements, first of all the relationship with Professor Maat himself. He must have fought very hard for satisfaction. This also affects the relationship with ordinary citizens. They must be able to count on fair treatment. The simple starting point is that you should not depend on a media campaign, on a persevering Chamber and on a pencil and a notepad to eventually be done justice. It also affects the relationship between department and police. The police got pretty worked up this afternoon. Not least, it affects the relationship with the Chamber. He hasn't been informed enough. The Chamber had to go to a lot of trouble to get information out. We've seen the black-painted pieces come along. The Minister has learned lessons for the future. Clearly, things have to be different. To be sure, we have wholeheartedly co-signed the motion tabled by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u289	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I indicated that there was a pattern in this minister's mind: to keep things secret for a very long time, then to apologize and then to point out mistakes made by officials and police officers. Tonight, too, we saw that happen. The police were partly blamed. That is, of course, insufferable in situations like this. The minister really lacks self-reflection and tries to win word games again with cleverness, but he doesn't actually succeed. I do not really see any improvement, and that is why I will wholeheartedly support the motion tabled by the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u290	Mr. Chairman. I have three comments on the Minister's statements during the debate this afternoon and this evening and on the letters he sent to the Chamber earlier. It is right and proper for the Minister to apologize to Professor Maat. I would like to stress that once again, from this point of view in the second term. It is also good that the Minister should come to the Chamber with measures, even later. This is a way of dealing with the search for balance at similar readings. Because on the one hand, the impact on next of kin is enormous when they are confronted with footage and notification, but on the other hand, it is also necessary to develop the field we are talking about. Finally, I am pleased that the Minister has promised that he will come forward with a note on Article 68 of the Constitution. It is extremely important that the Chamber is not only well informed by the cabinet, but also that there is a good discussion about what internal process should be possible in the department to a certain degree of freedom, so that a minister can make the right decisions. That's what I like to see in the note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u291	Mr. Chairman. I am not convinced by all kinds of answers from the Minister. I made a start on this in the first place, and it did not get any better after that. I also think that the Minister has failed to provide information to the Chamber. Professor Maat is simply mangled by the Minister, who has shown no initiative to restore that. The Minister did say that he would have restored that if Professor Maat had not acted himself, but I have no confidence in that. Nor does the Minister show that he is actually aware of the error of all kinds of actions of his own. He has not been able to give me the impression that he will do much better in the future, not least because this is the third time he has been involved in this kind of problem in a relatively short time. In short, my group has no confidence that the Minister will do better and therefore supports the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u292	Mr. Chairman. Many words have been exchanged in this debate, but little has been said. Some questions have been asked many times without satisfactory answers. We now understand that we must not judge the Minister on his statements and his actions, but on his intentions. We can only guess intentions and intentions. We need to look at the facts. They're like this. One, Professor Maat was unjustly blackmailed by the Minister. Two, a police report was wrongly blacked out. Three, the police are blamed for the blackmailed report that the minister sent to the Chamber, which also makes the police a bit dirty. Four, the Chamber is not well informed, because exculpatory information has not been shared with her. Only after Professor Maat wrote the information himself and brought it out, did the Minister apologize, not before, and that certainly didn't happen equestrianly. The Minister does not want us to judge him by what he says, but by what he means and that emotions are considered as a mitigating circumstance. But we can't look into his head. The Minister has informed us incompletely. That is why the Group of the Party of Animals supports the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u293	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u294	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for the comments made during the second term. I note that the Chamber is not satisfied with the way in which information has been provided to the Chamber. I understand that, because I also indicated in the debate that at least one point should have been completely different, given the balance I should have made. I made that assessment, but I did it too late. I have also indicated in the debate how I intend to change that. What has been said by a number of spokesmen is that I would like to blame the national police for what I have been accused of in the debate. I would like to point out that, throughout the debate, I have indicated that there is only one person responsible for whatever happens within my department and all the implementing organisations, and that is me. There is no question whatsoever that any kind of debt can be deposited with anyone, other than with the Minister himself. This is without prejudice to the fact that in this particular case the National Police has its own competence and is also a legal entity. For this reason, attention has been paid in the debate to the question of what the police themselves are responsible for, under my ultimate political responsibility. But that has nothing to do with wanting to shuffle off any responsibility. That cannot be done as a minister, nor should it be done as a minister. I've established that there are two motions on the table. The first motion, tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Segers, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Bontes and Mr Krol, states that I should have dealt with the matter of Professor Maat differently. I have said it as it is: I have apologized for my comments because I think that is right. I should've been more businesslike. Secondly, there is talk of a somewhat generous way of providing information. This is probably seen on the late release of the documents. That is what I said in the debate. I do not recognise the fact that a consultation with the police would have been difficult. That was not the subject of the debate. That is not in line with the facts either. I fully agree with the consideration that the Chamber should have the information necessary to monitor the conduct of the government. That goes without saying. That is the basis of the trust that should exist between the Minister and the Chamber. The motion then states that the obligation to provide information under Article 68 of the Constitution should be dealt with more carefully. Strictly speaking, I have also acknowledged this, because I too late made my own assessment of the inspection of the documents. Next, the motion says that I should work with the Prime Minister to draw up a plan to deal better with information requests. Let me point out that this gives the Prime Minister a strange role. There is only one person responsible for providing information from my department to the Chamber, and that is me as the Minister of Security and Justice. The Prime Minister has no role in this and cannot advise me in it either. I'm gonna have to do it myself. There should be an improvement plan, but there is only one improvement plan possible. And that is that I ask every day with every document, with every policy piece, with every letter, with every report: what should the Chamber know about this when? In my opinion, the when should always be answered with: as soon as possible. It is therefore not possible to comply with this request, because there is simply always an obligation, with or without an improvement plan, to inform the Chamber correctly, fully and in good time. I accept that obligation and I see that obligation should be there. With regard to Article 68 of the Constitution, I note that, in response to Mr Recourt's first term, the Minister of the Interior will send a note to the Chamber as an update of the 2002 note, which has been discussed here. I myself will pay full attention to the improvement programme that I have agreed and concluded within my department. Around February 1st, the details of the precise plans will be sent to the Chamber. This means that I have to discourage the motion, while taking on board and taking over its essence. I have already taken it up in the debate. That brings me to Mr Van Nispen's motion on item No. 61, with which he renounces trust in me as Minister. You will understand that I must discourage that motion. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for the suggestions they have made in the debate and for the critical, but also constructive, words that have been spoken. I take it to heart, and I will do everything I can to restore the confidence of those parties who will support the motion from the SP side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u295	The verdict on a motion of censure is really up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u296	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u297	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u298	It is customary to vote immediately after the debate on a motion of censure. That is what we are going to do after a suspension of about ten minutes. Mr Omtzigt has asked me to vote on his motion as well. This is not customary, so I will see if there is any support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u299	It's not common. Why isn't it common? That is because I cannot discuss with my group how to vote. I have a preference, on behalf of my group, for voting on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u300	I support Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u301	It is our preference to deal with it right now, but I am also sensitive to Mr Recourt's argument that there is a need for consultation with the group. I do not think it would be insurmountable if it were to be Tuesday, but the first preference would be to vote now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u302	It's convenient to wrap it up tonight. I therefore support Mr Omtzigt's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u303	I'd like to vote now. We can also, if necessary, suspend the PvdA Group to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u304	I also opt for the latter option, especially since, as the Minister is so reluctant about the first motion, I am also doubting the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u305	As far as the VVD is concerned, we can now vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u306	Now vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u307	Mr Omtzigt, you have support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u308	I would like to thank you for your support, but I would like to look at the Group of the Party of European Socialists. If she needs ten minutes for consideration, we can, of course, suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-6.u309	We'll suspend for ten minutes anyway. I said that it is not customary to vote only on motions of censure and not on the rest of it. However, the majority is fine with that, so we are going to vote on the other motion as well.
