ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Islamic terrorism spreads across our globe like a deadly virus. In the fight against this, the Netherlands is making military efforts, but of course that is not the only thing we can do. The financing of terrorism must also be tackled vigorously. Many countries see that as well, but unfortunately there are also countries that do not do much about it. Qatar is one of those countries. Now this debate is not about whether or not Qatar's treasury flows money to terrorists, because I have no concrete indications of this. Nor is it a question of whether Qatar has sufficient rules against the financing of terrorism, because there are rules. Today, it is a question of what Qatar is actually doing to combat the financing of terrorism by what I call "private individuals." There is now a load of publications and research. These indicate that Qatar is structurally failing in this respect. The Foreign Minister, who is present here today, was aware of this, according to his letter of 15 February last year. He indicated that the government would enter into dialogue with the Gulf States on the financing of terrorism. He also indicated that more could be done to counter the private financing of terrorists. That was a year ago. On the one hand, I regret that it has taken so long for this debate to take place, but on the other hand it gives me the opportunity to ask the Minister the following questions. The dialogue started a year ago. Now, of course, is the question of what it has produced in concrete terms. How many terrorist financiers were arrested by Qatar in the meantime? And what assets have been frozen there to counter terrorist financing? In short, what are the concrete results? In the meantime, the wave states, including Qatar, have taken tough measures against the Shia terrorist group Hezbollah, but not against the financing of Sunni terrorists. Qatar actually functions as a kind of ATM for terrorist groups such as Al-Qaeda, Hamas and Islamic State. The authorities in Qatar simply leave behind to enforce international sanctions against terrorists. They tolerated terrorist financing. Dozens of terrorist financiers are now free in Qatar, while they are on international penalty lists. Let me give you one as an example. It's a person you may not know, but it's an important one. His name is Muthanna Harith Al-Dari. He's on the U.S. and United Nations sanction lists for funding Islamic State. A travel ban has been imposed against this terrorist banker. Nevertheless, he was warmly welcomed in Qatar last summer. He was even kissed and hugged by the previous emir of Qatar. But he's not the only one. Qatar leaves behind, taking tough measures against dozens of others. Terrorism experts even argue that no Qatari has been charged with terrorist financing. No one's under lock and key for that. Two months ago in Qatar, the book Snow White and the seven dwarfs were removed from a library because the image of Snow White did not appeal to the authorities. So we can see that Qatar is firm against Snow White, a fairytale figure, but not against the financiers of terrorism. There's gotta be another way. Can the Minister confirm that not much has happened yet? What are his proposals for clarifying and improving the situation in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. For many years now, and also since the request for this debate in 2014, the fight against terrorism has been characterised by a remarkable 'yes', one might say: bizarre 'contradiction'. On the one hand, Western countries are making all kinds of efforts to combat Islamic State, Al-Qaeda and similar organisations in all kinds of places in the world. On the other hand, Western allies in the Middle East support these radical jihadist organizations. A well-known example is Saudi Arabia, which has supplied weapons and money to radical organizations such as Al-Nusra, the official branch of Al-Qaeda in Syria. Infamous is also Turkey, from which the vast majority of radical fighters have left for Syria to join jihadist organizations, without being put in their way. And although there is less attention in the media, Qatar, which is at the heart of this debate, also belongs in this list. A few examples clearly illustrate the substantial support given from Qatar to jihadists in different countries. In August last year, for example, the United States imposed sanctions against two Qataris for being suspected of financing Al-Qaeda in Pakistan, Al-Nusra in Syria and extremists in Sudan. In December 2013, someone was also put on the penalty list because hundreds of thousands of dollars would have been transferred to Al-Qaeda in Syria. Earlier, in 2011, the United Nations Special Envoy in Libya accused Qatar of supplying arms and money to Islamic fighters in that country. In 2014, Qatar re-emerged for arms supplies to Islamists in Libya, while there is still a United Nations arms embargo against Libya. From Qatar, money would also have gone to Islamic State. Experts have calculated that in the years 2013-2014 some 40 million dollars went from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar to Islamic State. Given the examples just mentioned, it is not surprising that in 2014 the United States blamed Qatar for being a tolerant environment for terrorist financing. The German Minister for International Development was even clearer in the same year. He said, "You have to ask yourself who's arming ISIS." Who finances IS? The key word is Qatar, according to the German minister. Does the Dutch Government share this view of the United States and Germany? The letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on financing of jihadist organizations from Qatar surprised the SP. It states that Qatar is an important partner in the coalition against IS and has committed itself to the fight against terrorism and its financing. The SP has the necessary doubts about this commitment. In the hope that the Minister can remove that doubt, I ask him the following questions. Is it true that in Qatar no one has been prosecuted who has been placed on a penalty list by the US for supporting jihadist organizations? Has the EU also placed Qataris on a penalty list? If that is the case, will they be prosecuted? Can the Minister indicate more generally what measures Qatar itself has taken against aid to terrorism? For example, does Qatar use a national penalty list? Do they have names on them? And does the Minister consider that Qatar is effectively acting against nationals who finance terror?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. The wealthy Arab Gulf State of Qatar is best known as a major financer of football, including being a shirtsponsor of FC Barcelona. In 2010 it made a deal with perhaps the most prestigious club in the world of 170 million euros. Since 2012, it has owned Paris Saint-Germain. Qatar will also organise the World Cup football in 2022. However, the country also has other hobbies, and I am not talking about equestrian sport. The British discovered in 2014 that money intended for the construction of the infrastructure for the World Cup football in 2022 had been locked away to ISIS. It became a riot. Prime Minister Cameron called on Qatar's emir to stop this cash flow. It could be the tip of the iceberg. Qatar is not only a generous sponsor of football, but also of radical Islamic movements. The report Qatar and Terror Finance of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies shows that Qatar is an important financial hub for financing terrorism. The cabinet does not claim to have any indications that national authorities in the Gulf are actively involved in the financing of ISIS. However, the cabinet believes that more can be done to prevent private funding of terrorist organisations. We get this a lot. It's bad enough if rich oil sheiks can freely give millions to jihadists. But the government in Qatar isn't doing enough about it. What the Qatar government leaves behind is at least as worrying. It openly supports Hamas terrorist organisation and the fundamentalist Muslim Brotherhood. It also supports rebels and Islamists in Syria with money and weapons. Qatar seems to be playing a double role. According to Reuters, Western diplomats in expatriates would see cars driving around with ISIS stickers. According to the Cabinet, Qatar is an important partner in the coalition against ISIS and has committed itself to the fight against international terrorism and its financing. Can the Minister indicate how Qatar is acting against the financing of international terrorism and in the fight against ISIS? As far as we are concerned, there is sufficient reason for an independent international investigation into support for radical Islamic organisations. Is the Minister prepared to advocate this and put pressure on Qatar to stop this support? The export of salafism is also dangerous. Qatar is also generously funding Qatar. The cabinet does not do anything about that either, not even in the Netherlands itself. The Knops motion to restrict foreign financing of Salafism has not been implemented. Why not? We are appalled about this and will come back to it in another debate, which is not in line with this 30-member debate and the limited speaking time. I would like a response from the Minister to that. Our group wants pressure to be increased. Is the Minister prepared to curb arms exports to Qatar, as in Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it has been more than a year since this debate was requested by Mr De Roon, but the issue of terrorist financing has become no less relevant. We're talking about Qatar today, an oil state. Actually, it's a royal family with an oil field and a TV station. At the same time, the family is very influential. It interferes with football, horses, peace negotiations in the Middle East, but also with less pleasant matters, and that is what we are discussing today. In the last article of Article 100, I read that the government is in the process of speeding up the implementation of measures for more intensive information sharing, detection and intervention of foreign terrorist fighters, travel movements, disruption of the financing of these foreign fighters and the reintegration of radicalised persons. As far as my group is concerned, an F-16 bomb on an oil field is still the most effective method of interrupting the flow of funding to, for example, ISIS and other groups. The Netherlands is co-chair of the Global Counterterrorism Forum with Turkey. A joint meeting was held in The Hague on 11 January. There has been talk of a number of initiatives and it is good that we can have the debate on them today. Such efforts mainly concern ISIS, but ISIS is not the only terrorist organisation richly funded from abroad. Al-Nusra, a branch of Al-Qaida currently fighting in Syria, is also included. While Qatar's emir claims to make a hard effort to prevent money from getting to ISIS, Qatar is formally part of the international coalition; we've already talked about that double role, reports from, for example, the American think tank Foundation for Defense of Democracies point out that money from individuals in Qatar continues to flow to Al-Nusra. The US Government also points this out. Qatar has "more work to do," according to a senior U.S. official. In August, the U.S. government put individuals from Qatar who would have lured money to Al Nusra in Syria and Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan on the penalty list. Did we follow that in Europe? According to Dennis Mac Eoin of the American Gatestone Institute, it goes beyond being reluctant to deal with those private donors. According to his analysis, Qatari Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Defence, the intelligence services and also the emir's cabinet are actively involved in streamlining relations with armed groups in both Syria and Libya. According to Mac Eoin, Qatar even financed terrorists in Mali where our troops are active. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. How does the Cabinet assess the Foundation for Defense of Democracies report and the analysis of the Gatestone Institute? Is Qatar doing enough to actually sanction those who support Al-Qaeda-like organisations in accordance with the 1989 Security Council Resolution? Has Qatar actually arrested the Qataries on the U.S. penalty list? The previous speaker also pointed that out. Are they even on the EU sanctions list? In addition to the involvement of Qatari individuals, are there any indications of government involvement, as claimed in Gatestone's analysis? What about those activities in Mali that we are supposed to have a good view of through our ears and eyes? Finally, the letter on Salafism sent to the Chamber by the cabinet last week says that the financing of terrorism is being countered, among other things, by providing training in the field of anti-money laundering and terrorist financing in the Gulf States. Is that even happening to Qatar? Is there any Qatari support for Salafist groups or mosques in the Netherlands and, if so, do we have an eye on how big it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour and pleasure to speak on behalf of my colleague, Mr D66, on behalf of 48 seats. Well, that's nice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u7	But no double speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u8	That's too bad. Mr. Chairman. This debate was indeed requested a long time ago by Mr De Roon. As others have said, the subject is of course as topical as it was at the time. In fact, it has a long history in the Chamber. With a number of colleagues, we tabled a motion in September 2014 calling on the government to make concrete proposals independently and in cooperation with allies for a comprehensive sanction package to identify and address individuals and companies directly or indirectly doing business with ISIS. That's still necessary. This concerns not only the so-called donations from charities from the Gulf region, but also all other economic relations that strengthen ISIS, particularly, of course, the trade in oil from ISIS. In January 2015, we already received a letter from the cabinet, in which it stated, among other things, that more could indeed, and as I read in it, be done more to prevent the financing of terrorist organisations. At that time, the EU terrorist list and the Financial Action Task Force were already mentioned, in addition to a number of national measures. Since then, we have devoted a great deal of attention to this subject in all the debates, including in the last Article 100 debate, and rightly so. I have three specific questions for the Minister. He was a host himself in January and I believe that he was also the initiator of a meeting on foreign terrorist fighters. He co-chaired the Global Counterterrorism Forum. I would ask him not only to specifically address the issue of financing terrorism in this area, but also to indicate where his ambition goes beyond what was achieved at that time. Secondly, on 2 February, the European Commission presented the Action plan to strengthen the fight against terrorist financing. I would ask the Minister to give an opinion on that. What are the concrete measures and expected results of that plan? Again, there is my question: is it enough or should Europe do more, especially compared to the US? Because sometimes there is the impression that the US is a little more energetic in sanctioning and blacklisting individuals. Thirdly, there are, perhaps a little more the positive side of the story, more and more reports that ISIS itself is getting into the financial problems. For example, we have read that the salaries of warriors have been halved. Can the Minister confirm these messages? And can he give an analysis of that? Is this due to the relative success of some measures, or have other factors caused this? Last but not least, I would like to ask the Minister to take up the responsibility of Qatar and other Gulf States to do everything in their power to receive refugees and provide humanitarian aid in the region. How does Qatar score with other countries in the region on these two important issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. Financing terrorism and failure to act by governments are serious violations of international law. They also undermine international political, diplomatic and military efforts to combat terrorism. Therefore, every effort must be made to combat funding from outside parties, including Qatari. The Netherlands combats terrorist financing at UN, EU and national level. At EU level, the Netherlands supports freezing measures on the basis of the EU terrorist list. In the UN context, efforts are being made to strengthen compliance with terrorist sanctions through improved monitoring and assisting countries in the implementation of the measures. The SGP is committed to expressing its appreciation of the government's efforts in this regard. However, we would like to know from the Minister which countries are assisted in the implementation of anti-terrorism measures and measures against the financing of terrorism. And specifically, does Qatar belong to this too? The SGP supports the prioritisation of the fight against the financing of ISIS and the dialogue with the Gulf States. According to the government, countries in the Middle East are "increasingly demonstrating an active attitude to halt terrorist financing." That leads to the following questions. In what way and with which Gulf countries is the dialogue currently taking place? What is the result of this active attitude of the Gulf States in the fight against terrorist financing? In this context, I would also like to know what concrete effects this dialogue has had to date. The SGP agrees with the Minister that the private sector can play an important role in identifying terrorist financing by oil trade. It is essential that the Financial Intelligence Unit-Netherlands is unfortunately called "Unfortunately" which has and keeps sufficient capacity to help banks at national and international level to identify transactions related to jihadist activities. My question to the Minister in this context is what possibilities he sees for further strengthening these alert mechanisms, so that appropriate measures can also be taken through the support of the private sector against those who help to finance criminal activities such as terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u10	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u11	Madam President. I thank the Chamber for the first-term questions. I would also like to thank the PVV Group for requesting this debate. It has indeed taken a very long time, I believe fourteen or fifteen months, but of course I share the urgency and importance of this debate. I think that we have all been told that we have also been regularly discussed about the effective fight not only against ISIS, but actually all terrorists and terrorist organisations. We also need to consider, in this case for Qatar, whether the Netherlands is at its most effective in dealing with that problem. Let me say straight away that, given the fact that it was 15 months ago, I assume that the Chamber attaches importance to an update on this point. Because the Dutch government shared and shares the concerns of the Chamber, it has been very active on many fronts, both in its bilateral relationship with Qatar and in our international activities in the global coalition. The Chamber has received a report on this. These are specifically very concrete measures relating to suspicious transactions in the financial world and the way in which they are dealt with. I think that's the essence. The hardest thing is to find out about these flows, to know where they come from, then to work with the private sector on them and to get that sector to the table. That's the only way you can do that. It's complicated, but it has to be done. In the last letter I sent to the Chamber concerning the measures taken and being implemented, you can read more about this. However, this is mainly Qatar. I will start by replying to that and then make a few comments on the more general problem of lists of sanctions, which a number of groups have asked for. It has rightly been said that Qatar is a rich country. In fact, I believe it has the highest income per capita in the world, because of the immense gas and oil resources. The Chamber has indicated that the report issued by the Foundation for Defense of Democracies in 2014 has been an important guide to her in asking the questions. Before I get to the point of financing government versus private players I'm going to say something about the role of Qatar. This role has shifted and changed over the past fifteen months, also due to the international pressure of the coalition, including the Netherlands but also the United States. You will see that Qatar participates very actively in the coalition's efforts to counter the funding of ISIS. In addition to the substantial military and humanitarian contribution to the coalition, the coalition leaders have been based in Qatar since 2009. From there, all air strikes are planned. It is also the country where the chiefs of defense of the coalition have come together. The Global Counterterrorism Forum, of which the Netherlands was elected co-chair, is also held there. This does not mean that countries automatically do exactly what we want them to do, but it is politically important to point out that this has happened in the period since this debate was requested. The Financial Action Task Force, which is currently operating very effectively with the various transactions from mainly private sources, is indeed mostly concerned with..... is now also organized in Qatar. Qatar also coordinates this in the MENA region. Combating money laundering and financing terrorism is central to this. Qatar has also proved to be a very active player at the meeting on terrorist financing that we held here. I have, of course, taken note of the publication of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, partly in response to the request made by the PVV Group and, in fact, by the Chamber. It is mainly about Qatar's alleged role in financing terrorist organisations. Several publications have been published in this field. I've looked at the report again. It relies mainly on media reports and sometimes difficult to verify reports from foreign intelligence services. I am not primarily concerned with Qatar's government, but also with other players. At any rate, the government does not currently have any indications that national authorities of the Gulf States are actively involved in the financing of ISIS. I don't say that for nothing. It's based on research. I've also involved our own intelligence services. As you know, Qatar strongly rejects all allegations. Given the importance we attach to this, I have spoken with Qatar at a high level. The Qatari Foreign Minister has also publicly stated that Qatar has no ties with ISIS or Al-Qaeda. This has been confirmed in talks with the Dutch Ambassador in Doha, who has also spoken openly with the Qatari Prime Minister. At my request, she also spoke with the Deputy Foreign Minister. Moreover, the Netherlands is one of the few countries, especially within the European Union, which engage in dialogue in Doha on contentious issues such as the financing of terrorism and the position of migrant workers. We will ensure that this is raised to the highest level. There are, of course, public statements that I think are important. The Qatari ambassador to Paris has, precisely because of that international pressure and the change in Qatar's role in the international coalition in recent years, reiterated that ISIS and Jabhat al-Nusra are terrorist organisations that are not supported by Qatar. The country itself was co-sponsor of Security Council Resolution 2253, which sees, among other things, the tightening up of measures to combat terrorist financing. Under pressure from the United States and European countries, as well as the international framework of standards we have established in the FATF, it is now a question of combating private funding. The main questions relate to this. We do not have any indication that the government is doing this, but proper monitoring of possible private funding is needed. This also applies in the Netherlands and elsewhere. Qatar has adopted new laws to this end and strengthened the supervision of financial transactions. I think that's a good thing. In particular, it is a question of monitoring charities in order to prevent them from being used as a cover. It is also about tackling networks and fund-raisers for financing foreign organisations, as well as effective implementation of UN sanctions and freezing. The institutional framework has also been strengthened with the establishment of Financial Intelligence Unit, a counter-terrorism committee in which the Central Bank of Qatar is also represented. On the most recent listings of Qatari citizens I'm talking about Al-Kaabi and Al-Kuwari uh, Qatar has taken immediate action. Suspects are grounded and their assets are frozen. Moreover, the Cabinet considers that Qatar can do even more to address the informal channels for private funding of terrorist organisations and prosecute those involved. So I share the concerns about this in the Chamber. I discussed this with the United States, which was also a relative critic in this area. Qatar has taken important steps and meets international standards, but much more can be done to implement them. I would like to draw attention to a number of important players, such as Mr Al-Nuaymi, a leading player who has been placed on the list by the US and the UN. In the meantime, Qatar has acted against him. The same applies to Al-Kawari, because action was taken immediately against him as well. His assets have been frozen and he's been placed under house arrest. The same applies to Mr Al-Kabi and Mr Al-Khawar. According to information from Qatar, the latter is now being prosecuted. It means that a significant strengthening and improvement has been achieved over the past period, on the basis of international cooperation but sometimes also on the basis of technical cooperation. It is, of course, not only a question of political will, but also of capacity and ability to monitor it properly. Qatar has therefore taken important steps. The freezing lists of the United Nations, the European Union and the United States are leading us. I would like to add that effective action is being taken against terrorist financing. This is partly due to the initiatives taken by the Chamber, the pressure from the United States and the European Union and to the changed geopolitical situation in Qatar, which is now part of the ISIS coalition, and the fact that terrorist organisations are also increasingly threatening the Gulf States themselves. The 12 persons mentioned in the report have been addressed. In addition, Qatar has committed itself to international standards against terrorist financing and makes an active contribution to the fight against ISIS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u12	The Minister needs a lot of words to explain to us that Qatar is really doing something. When I listen to that, I think: it remains very general. Steps have been taken and the main criminals have been put under house arrest, but from that I conclude that no firm steps have been taken. A terrorist financier, one of the main players in that game, has been placed under house arrest. Surely you wouldn't call that a firm step in the fight against terrorist financing? If that person was thrown into the brig for a long time after being prosecuted and tried, then I can agree with the minister. Then, indeed, a firm step has been taken, but placing under house arrest is certainly not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u13	I'm just reflecting on what you're actually saying. You are actually saying that the Minister needs a lot of words. However, I have indicated exactly what happened to the 12 people in the report. You yourself asked what happened to them on the basis of that report. I would like to state exactly what has changed in the past period. It would, of course, be nice for you to take note of what I am saying and then say something about what that means to you. It all depends on how you judge that house arrest. In the Netherlands too, not everyone on the penalty list is arrested. This depends entirely on the specific situation, on the legislation and on what is required internationally. In this case, house arrest and freezing have been chosen. Whether you think that's a firm step or not, it's up to you. In reply to your questions, I dare say that significant progress has been made. Whether that is sufficient is up to you to assess. I said that more must be done and that the pressure must be increased. We have adapted our activities internationally and there is therefore a change. Finally, I have indicated exactly the lines along which it has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u14	I hope, however, that the Minister can agree with me that we can only be satisfied and that we can only say that we have taken firm steps when the main people responsible for these matters are simply locked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u15	I agree. Of course, it is still a question of who is responsible. I hope I have done you some satisfaction in this respect, because I think it is important that you have requested this debate. It also concerns the concerns of the Dutch Government, which we have raised with the United States and other allies up to the highest level in Qatar. I just see that important steps have been taken. It can always be better and you can always go on, but it's not unimportant to mention that here. This applies not only to Qatar, but we will undoubtedly also come to talk about this in general about Saudi Arabia and other countries in the Gulf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u16	I share the Minister's view that important steps have been taken. This debate was requested in 2014 and it would be extremely regrettable if no interesting and important steps had been taken since then. It has therefore become clear that external funding of such organisations is actually necessary to continue the struggle in Syria and other parts of the region, for example. The question is, of course, to what extent there is an agreement with what has been identified internationally through good intelligence services. I am thinking in particular of the work of the United States, because the list of Europe is a derivative of that rather than its own work. To what extent is there an agreement between the list of Americans and the insights that exist there, and what has happened in practice in the area of house arrest and freezing of assets?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u17	I'm not sure I fully understand your question. I understand there's intelligence from the Americans. Of course, it makes sense to work with them, to put it as publicly as possible. This also means that within the coalition we jointly exert pressure on different countries, not just countries in the Gulf region. Terrorism funding is not limited to that region, because money is liquid. It is a question of investigating transactions that run through all kinds of very complicated routes. In response to the information that was provided to me through the report on which this debate is about, there has been action against the twelve people concerned. In that sense, I can answer your question positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u18	That's about those 12 people. All this is understood, but the fact is that in this world of lists held by different powers and organizations, the Americans often have the widest lists and the best intelligence. That is why I specifically ask the Minister about the position of the Americans in relation to the actions of the Qatari government. That's what interests me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u19	I can't actually answer that because I don't know. I cannot judge exactly what the American intelligence is and whether it relates one-on-one to what happened in Qatar. Well, I can tell you what we do know. The main cases of funding are also raised by the United States. We want sanctions against this, of course. Those cases are therefore on a UN list, which is then digitally taken over by the European Union, in other words. This means that we will then act jointly on this list of sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u20	Interesting to see that Mr Van Bommel sees American intelligence as extremely reliable this time, and as a guide. I had to get that out of my head. It is noted and is all part of these Acts, Mr Van Bommel! The Minister just said in an interim that the Netherlands is the leader in this fight. Does the Minister also recognise that other countries do too little or lag behind? Or doesn't he have that feeling at all? Is there a coalition in which everyone supports this not only in word, but also in action? Or does the Minister feel that the Netherlands is at the forefront of this and that others are lagging behind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u21	In any case, the Netherlands also raises this issue at the highest level because of pressure from the Lower House in Qatar. Did we need that pressure? No, of course not, but it helps. I am well aware that this can only be done if you do it together; Mr Knops will also realise that. Hence the important role of the United States of America, which the SP Group really attaches great importance to, as well as others. I don't want to pass the judgment that others don't. They might do it another way. We have a certain size and a way in which we can work best. We are also helping to strengthen capacity. The Government of Qatar is of course also in its stomach with ISIS, because it is also a threat to the Gulf States. This also means that we are now working with the FIOD, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the national police in the field of financial detectives. We are in the lead in this, if you like. At the meeting I organised in January, it was agreed to do so much more pragmatically. That's what I thought was the advantage of that meeting. You can take all kinds of big statements, but then you have to have the financial detectives and other people on the scene. Recently the capacity on Dutch posts in the region has been strengthened to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u22	I think that's exactly the point. The words that come from Qatar aren't even so wrong. All kinds of promises are made that business is going to happen. The only question is what is actually being done in practice. I think that is what this debate is about. What progress has been made? In this light, how does the Minister assess Qatar's passivity towards military support for operations against IS? Qatar has a lot of money, but within the coalition is quite passive in fulfilling that role. How seriously should we take Qatar's anti-ISIS participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u23	I take that very seriously. I have just mentioned a number of examples. Qatar is at the heart of the coalition. This applies to his activities, to the headquarters where military plans are being made and to the way in which cooperation is being worked out. I'm positive about that. I would like to make a few comments on the question of funding. We are in complete agreement on this. I would like to add that the image of the income of ISIS is diffuse. It's just a market model, a black market economy. ISIS is almost entirely dependent on declining internal revenue sources. The revenue from the bank vaults in Mosul, a huge amount of more than 1 billion, is one-off and the oil trade, on which we discussed earlier how it should be dealt with, is now falling sharply. External funding is actually very low, only 1% of ISIS's revenue. This does not mean that we should consider this element less important, but it should be taken into account in that sense. The sources of income mainly concern the local population, cultural heritage, oil, bank vaults, ransom payments and money from foreign fighters. According to the United States, donations are only a short reminder of the importance that was attached to them earlier in the debate, i.e. about 1% of the income of ISIS. I am not saying that it is unimportant, but it is relatively not the most important element in the financing of terrorism. It is important, and rightly so, that attention is also paid to this. I would like to answer a number of questions that have been raised in this area. I already said something about the penalty list. I've already said something about it. The UN and the FATF are the international authorities in this area. That is why I do not need an independent investigation, because there are two institutions for that. They just have to do that. The UN and the FATF shall monitor and describe in detail the implementation of international obligations to counter terrorist financing. The FATF publishes those evaluations on its website, so you can also watch. Reports from the UN Monitoring Team are also public. Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia have been evaluated in recent years. A technical assessment has been carried out in the evaluation. Is the legislation, the institutional framework in order? The effectiveness and results have been assessed in practice. That is also for our means of looking at it carefully and, if necessary, acting more sharply. If a country fails, countries must draw up an action plan to remedy the shortcomings. The list of sanctions has been asked whether the EU is lagging behind the US. The EU automatically takes over those sanctions against ISIS, Al-Qaeda, Boko Haram and Al-Shabaab. To this end, the UN decision must be transposed into EU law. This indeed involves a procedure, but it takes five working days in the European Union. I think that's a pretty unique thing for this organization; let's call it almost revolutionary. The Commission is even looking at measures to further streamline the transposition process. I think we should not worry too much about that. I said something about the financial problems of ISIS and the halving of salaries on the ground. The UN predicts that ISIS's oil revenues will continue to decrease this year, partly as a result of international air strikes, cutting off oil smuggling and trade and falling oil prices. I come to the implementation of the UN Security Council Resolution 2253, of which the Netherlands was co-sponsor. We are also preparing a UN list on this point from the Dutch perspective. The European Commission's action plan against terrorist financing is important. Not only has Ecofin welcomed this, but it has, of course, also begun to implement it. We, as President, also play a facilitating role in achieving results quickly. These include legislation, Europol detection, information exchange and capacity building to support countries in the Middle East, for example, in order to fulfil that obligation. I told you what the Netherlands is doing about it. Mr Knops himself pointed out that there would be another separate debate on salafism. Of course, funding will also be discussed. It is absolutely true that financing from abroad is a problem when private sources or targets are unclear. Nor can it be determined whether there is funding to terrorist organisations or individuals. In that case, therefore, it is also up to the Dutch authorities to take action, but I would like to discuss the details of this, the question of how far that should go, with the approval of the Chamber if we look at the letter from the cabinet on this matter. Mr Ten Broeke has asked me if we have any indications regarding Mali. The answer to that must remain to him, because I do not have the information about it on the spot. In any case, I should like to say here that the Dutch Government has no evidence that the government supports groups in Mali financially. From other information, I find it difficult to share it with the Chamber, but I honestly say that I do not have it at my disposal here, on the spot. If the Chamber allows me, I will see again whether I can share it with her or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u24	The information I mentioned in this case is the information contained in the report. That is the most recent information; it is even from the end of December last year. I can therefore imagine that it has not been dealt with directly. If the Minister sees that possibility, I would like him to share the information he knows how to get out of the way. Finally, we are sitting with our ears and eyes in Mali, and it is not insignificant to share with us in a further letter. There are the usual channels for sharing information which cannot come directly to the Chamber, at least not in that form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u25	That seems to me to be a very legitimate question. We must distinguish between Qatar's government, where it is not, and individuals. I just don't know about that, and that's what we should be looking at. There is also another problem, which Mr Knops just referred to. This concerns funding from Gulf States of religious groups, for example in Mali. I do not know whether Mr Ten Broeke is referring to this, but it may be important to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u26	The Minister has agreed to come forward with a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u27	Yeah, but my question was whether or not we should. Mr Ten Broeke will probably say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u28	The minister has predictive powers today. In the letter, he can best respond to the text I have spoken about the report as such. It concerns the report of the American Gatestone Institute, which also includes public authorities, namely the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Defence, intelligence services and even the cabinet of the emir. Perhaps the sender will make the report less reliable, but we don't have the experience that it is. It is an organization with a certain ideological purpose, but so far not very bad with its information. On all these elements I would receive further information in the letter, including those spiritual groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u29	Let me say that I will inform the House of this in the most public way possible. That is what we all want. I understand Mr Ten Broeke's concern, so we shall look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u30	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u31	Yes, I also thought I had answered the most important questions, if not all of the Chamber's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u32	Is there a need for a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u33	I had asked the Minister another question about arms exports by analogy with Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u34	The analogy with Saudi Arabia is the right one. We are critical of arms exports in the Gulf region, where we are very reluctant; this is also in direct relation to the situation in Yemen. What I shared with the Chamber about Saudi Arabia also applies to Qatar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u35	For the second period, speaking time shall be one minute, including tabling motions. I call Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. A number of points have been clarified, but it is not yet sufficiently tangible. The problem is, of course, bigger than Qatar; others have already talked about it. We believe that greater clarity and openness are needed. After all, we also have the right to know who is really on our side in the fight against terrorism and who is merely faking it. Qatar is accused of the latter in all literature on Qatar and terrorist financing. Qatar is playing a double game. That needs to be clarified. I would like to see the cabinet report annually to the Chamber on how the fight against terrorist financing is actually taking place worldwide, with the focus in particular on Gulf states. Let's at least start with Qatar. That's why I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Qatar is making little effort to implement the fight against terrorist financing and the enforcement of international sanctions against terrorist financing;]] [[calls on the Government, in Qatar, to ask for clarification of the country's actual commitment to concrete actors in terrorist financing, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-359]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u37	I am going to try to help Mr De Roon with a little extra speaking time by asking why he is tabling this motion after we have just had this whole debate. The reason for the debate were individuals who were not arrested at the time or placed under house arrest, but were implied. The Minister has explained in detail today and has mentioned almost all these people individually. Mr De Roon may not think it enough that these people are sitting at home with an anklet, but at least there is progress. The motion calls on the Minister to inform the Chamber again. Then let's add something new, as I did with the December 2015 report. I don't understand this motion. If I ask my group to vote against it, it is because the whole debate has already provided for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u38	I heard two names from the Minister's mouth. Those two were indeed placed under house arrest, but how does that work? I want to see that. What are the plans? How's that going? That's what I did with this motion. There are also a lot of people who have been mentioned by the Minister, but not mentioned, of whom I do not really know exactly what is happening to them. I just want to be more clear about that. That is the thrust of the motion. Mr President, if I may, I will read out the second motion very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is insufficient clarity as to whether and how international sanctions and rules against terrorist financing are maintained in Qatar;]] [[Whereas this could seriously impede the international approach to terrorism and should therefore be exposed to this problem;]] [[calls on the Government to report annually to the Chamber on the extent and manner in which sanctions and rules against terrorist financing are maintained by Qatar and on the concrete results achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-360]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I have argued in detail that the intelligence of the United States can play a role in combating the financing of terrorist organisations. The intelligence of the United States is always important to the Netherlands, for example for the safety of Dutch soldiers in foreign countries, but also for the crossing of conflict zones. We discussed this issue in detail earlier this week. So I would say to Mr Knops and to the Minister: put me in that list too. It's a good thing they spotted that. For my question, I don't need a motion. The Minister said that he does not know exactly what the relationship is between the intelligence and the registration of the Americans on the one hand, and the actions of the Qatari government against individuals or organisations in Qatar that finance terror on the other. I invite the Minister to take a look at this and to share the results with the Chamber in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. The Qatar issue is not a question of relying on the blue eyes and sitting back. Nor does the Minister intend and does he intend to do so. I call on him to continue to show this attitude towards Qatar, as rumours and media reports still indicate that Qatar is indirectly or directly involved in funding. If there is the slightest reason, I call on the Minister to take action. I would like a commitment from the Minister on that point. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to follow the same line with Qatar as Saudi Arabia: if weapons and ammunition can be used for wars in the near region, for example in Yemen, or for arms supplies to radicalist groups, this will also have consequences for the way we deal with Qatar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Chairman. This debate has been waiting for a very long time. It turns out that this is a bit revengeful, because in the Minister's update we can see that action has indeed been taken. Many of the individuals involved in 2014 have meanwhile been placed under house arrest. This is not least due to the commitment that the Netherlands always makes. The Netherlands is one of the few countries to bring this about. This reminds me of how we operate in Saudi Arabia and Bahrain and how we are constantly one of the few European countries that dare to raise this issue in the Gulf States. However, this requires the House to take the next step towards the good work that the Netherlands may have done because of our pressure; the Minister was always complimentary in this respect. I have added that there is new information. We are getting a letter on this; I thank the Minister for that. This concerns in particular the security situation of our military in Mali. I would add in particular that Ahrar al-Sham should also be mentioned. That is an organisation which is being discussed in the context of the Geneva process, but which is not on the lists. I would advise against arms exports and investigations in this respect, because then the entire entrance of the Netherlands could be counterproductive for the good work that is apparently being done now in relation to Qatar, a state with a double face; that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. My group and the D66 group also thank the Minister for answering the questions in the first term. I have, of course, also heard the motions that have just been tabled. I share it when people are wondering: why have we just listened to this whole speech? I ask the Minister not to inform the Chamber every year but as soon as necessary, i.e. regularly, on terrorism, on the financing of terrorism and on sanctions. I call for this to be included in existing letters and debates as much as possible, because we cannot separate the financing of terrorism from all the other elements we need in the fight against ISIS and other organisations. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr Ten Broeke, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u44	I think it's a brilliant idea from my colleague Servaes. It seems to me that all the reasons for this funding must therefore be taken into account. It would be good to include the direct relationship with the intensity, the increased intensity of air strikes on oil installations and oil convoys, for example. I am sure that Mr Servaes will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u45	It is no longer a National Complimentary Day, but let me return this compliment: Mr Ten Broeke is taking this extremely nicely. I do think it is right to include these other causes in this. Let me say, even if only for the Acts, that oilfields which serve only an economic purpose and a civilian purpose cannot be regarded primarily as military targets and that we can see the impact of bombing them. But on all matters that contribute economically or financially, I say: of course, it would be a good idea to include them in Parliamentary letters in full integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for answering the questions and for the insight and update he has given. My colleague Servaes has already mowed the grass at my feet. I had intended to ask for a regular update, to repeat these kinds of sessions regularly. I do not need to add anything else. I can imagine that this also meets Mr De Roon's motion, although it is not just about providing information about Qatar, but about showing the whole spectrum. It might even be a reason to withdraw that motion, but I would like to leave that to Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u47	Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for the second-term questions. My response concerns in particular the motions tabled and one or two proposals. I shall begin with Mr De Roon's motion on item No. 359. I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. It notes that Qatar is making little effort to implement the fight against terrorist financing. I've indicated to him that I think that's an incorrect characterization. He asked me to ask the Government of Qatar for clarification on the actual deployment of that country. I have pointed out to Mr De Roon that I have done so and that I have reported on it. I am therefore a little surprised by this motion. Then I think: we are here writing letters, doing research and sending ambassadors out, and so we are doing a number of things that Mr De Roon considers important, and then he repeats exactly what he asked for a year and a half ago. This doesn't get us very far. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u48	A brief question about the motion, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I am particularly concerned that we should not only get the picture from now on, but that it should also be completed in the future. People have been put under house arrest. What's going to happen next? They're gonna be out in three months, aren't they? I want that kind of information administered structurally, hopefully through this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u50	So that's not gonna happen. I said that we report to the Chamber every year in a variety of ways. I said that the FATF is doing the same, precisely on the points raised by Mr De Roon, and that he is also making those findings public. The United Nations is reporting as well. The United States also reports annually. We report in the progress reports on the fight against ISIS and terror. I would like to point out once again that Mr De Roon's motion really does have a different thrust, namely...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u51	The motion in part No. 360.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u52	The motion in part No. 359.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u53	No, now the motion in part No. 360.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u54	The motion in part No. 360 I would also advise against. I believe that, for the same reason, there is no need for an annual report for Qatar, precisely because the progress report in the fight against ISIS, the regular reports we give on the fight against terrorism in front of the financial and economic point, the reporting to the FATF, the United Nations and the United States, do all that. Mr Van Roon can be satisfied with this or not and then say that we do or do not do enough. All this is legitimate, but at least we do not need what is requested in this motion. I would therefore advise against the motion. Furthermore, I promised that we were just here to discuss this important element in the fight against ISIS in the progress reports. In my view, this includes almost all the aspects raised by the members of the Labour Party's political groups and the VVD. As far as Mali is concerned, I have promised to look for the right form in order to give the Chamber the best information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-8.u55	Thank you. That concludes this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
