ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the members of the Presidium, as proposers, to the Chamber of Commerce in particular on this matter, as well as the chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. What was the task of the working group? The task was precisely to promote the formation of fractional groups in order to assess the phenomenon of fractional splits, in particular as regards the additional costs involved in the division of the Chamber. With this task in mind, I have become a member of the working group on behalf of a number of divisions in this Chamber. But how sad: hardened parties have become blinded like rabbits in bright headlights. For instead of a search for the way in which fractional formation can be promoted, this exercise has become more and more a criminal expedition. It does not promote the formation of groups at all, but the status quo of 22 March 2017 is poured into concrete. The additional costs appear to be marginal. The budget for supporting political groups remains the same. Only the distribution of the money changes by splits. There would be discontent in the Chamber over the consequences of division in the current situation, has been described earlier. But how hypocritical! When the first PVV people split off from the PVV group, everyone here stood on the banks calling for "More, more, more." The split of the 50PLUS Group was simply adopted for notification within the Chamber at the time. At most this led to the sighing that the split makes sense in a one-issue party for the elderly. But after the splits at the Labour Party and the VVD, everyone cramped. Strange and hypocritical, because historically there is nothing strange about divisions. Splits are of all times. But the old hardened parties here in the house, sitting today in box K, suddenly make a new mantra around it: fragmentation makes this country ungovernable. It's all bullshit, isn't it? A cabinet without a majority in the First Chamber, that makes a country unmanageable and also leads to a lot of backroom politics to throw it on political agreements with opposition parties such as D66, the Christian Union and GroenLinks. There's no problem with fragmentation here in the Chamber. The votes are exactly the same: if there is a majority in favour, if a proposal is adopted, if there is a majority against, it is rejected. The present proposal is far too restrictive for future members of their political groups to separate themselves from their political groups for whatever reason. It is a violation of our constitutionally anchored representative democracy. Why would you want to change anything? Why settle something else? To discourage the separation? What arrogance. Members of parliament don't just split up for fun, like, "Well, you know what, let's split up." There is always a lengthy process within the group concerned. Many say it's a robbery. In fact, these splitters are, of course, the Robin Hoods of politics, those who shook off the compelling compulsion and urge to finally actually divide power among individual representatives of the people. My line is clear. The main principle and starting point is Article 67 (3) of the Constitution, which is at the heart of our parliamentary democracy: Members vote without burden. There are no constitutional political parties. People are chosen on an individual basis with an individual mandate. That is our electoral system; that is our electoral law. I would like to remind everyone of Minister Plasterk's answers to written questions from my group on this subject. I quote the Minister: 'The Election Act, in line with the Constitution, stipulates that the seats will be allocated to the individual candidates, not to the candidate political groups'. The working group stated in a high tone that the constitutional rights of a member of the Second Chamber of States General would not be affected by this amendment of the Rules of Procedure. The Presidium has taken over this position for ease of reference. In the end, we are talking about measures that sneak in through the back door. The formal rights remain. But, of course, we are not going to change the Constitution or the Election Act in order to prevent division. No, that is a completely inaccessible path and, moreover, a very long path with constitutional changes. So it would never be proposed to ban splits, to ban a member of the group from being a member of the public at the same time. In my view, however, this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure is designed to discourage the future division of Members of Parliament and to silence them in advance. It won't touch me this time of year. Nothing changes for me. However, this proposal does indeed undermine constitutional rights for Members of Parliament who would like to separate themselves from a political group in the future. That right also lies in the possibility of drawing up motions, amendments, written and oral questions and own-initiative laws. Of course, it is still possible formally under the proposed amendment. But be honest: in practice it is impossible to give substance to the rights of Parliament without proper support. This morning I read in the newspaper that the chairman of the working group thinks that support is only fringe that can be removed. Does the Bureau agree with the chairman of the working group? What is happening because of this new straitjacket regulation of order? The speaking time of splits and groups is reduced to an absurd minimum. The financial resources are being cut to such an extent that there can no longer be any substantive support. That was already zero point zero in the working group's proposals. In order to get the Democrats 66 still a bit in line, a secretary for agenda and post management has been added as a Band-Aid on the wound. The consequences of this are, of course, clear. We get two types of MPs: A-Room members with everything on them and B-Room members who are only allowed to take the blue chair. There will be total arbitrariness in supporting Members of Parliament. One member, the A-member, belonging to the group, will now receive €170,000 in grant. The B member will be shipped off with €25,000. These are subsidy bases which, in my view, cannot even pass the administrative test because of the general principles of good governance. It gets worse. People don't stay a member of the political group because everything was pais and cherished in that group. I myself have experienced this in the past in a group of states. People just stay a member and don't show up anymore. No one can do anything about it. We'll get haunted roommates. While they are paid by taxpayers, they cannot do their jobs because they do not have the means to work themselves, namely time and money. What the hell can you say in 30 seconds? A 30-second speaking time is a joke. How does the Bureau intend to prevent you from just putting up a few statements and then reducing the debate to a window for a 30-second YouTube or Facebook movie? To what extent can we make a meaningful, well-founded and detailed contribution to a debate in 30 seconds? A word about the money, the BBRA and the scale 6 that is now being proposed. That's the Band-Aid. So that means secretarial support. Such support is, of course, always useful, but never sufficient to satisfy your work as a Member of Parliament at level, with your constitutional rights. For this, you need substantive support through well-educated policy staff. The current system is based on two employees per MP. Those employees rightly deserve more than scale 6, a typical case of: if you pay peanuts, you get monkeys. My question is therefore to what extent this is expected to be a good and oh so desirable contribution to the democracy and functioning of this house. It becomes even more strange when the report of the working party points out that Members of Parliament are always free, of course, to get private money from somewhere to strengthen support. But then, of course, in a small office outside this room building, or are they allowed to stack up in their study? It would be an extremely bad development if Members of Parliament were to go to work after they were heavily sponsored. They are not covered by the Political Parties Finance Act and not by the Court's subsidy rules, so openness, transparency and accountability are not required. Frugal financing, for example from abroad, can then be the result. I don't think that's the idea. Another negative effect, namely the precedent of this arrangement for the House of Representatives as a political institution. When we at this level, within this layer of government, draw up such rules to make the division of the people's representative work impossible, what will that mean for the lower levels of government, the co-governments in our country, for all Provincial States and Municipal Councils, for 9,500 State and Council Members? Municipal councils, with, of course, also rigid national parties, see this as a reason to shut down critical, independent council members and members of the State. This is a completely wrong signal, as Professor Elzinga in the Ministry of the Interior has also indicated. How does the Presidium view this? Many local parties, accounting for 33% of the seats, are a result of council members who left their original group and went to work independently in the city council or states. Don't get me wrong, I'm not in favour of 150 separate groups here in the Chamber, but I think it's very important that Members of Parliament feel free to speak against the party line when their conscience asks them to do so, even if it might result in a break with the group. Article 67 (3) of the Constitution is there for a reason. What picture will be created when this system is implemented? It is antidemocratic, it leads to an iron-party discipline, members of the Chamber are under the yoke of the party and the party board, members will soon be in the ranks, there is fear and fear, they are all easy sheep, puppets of the party, they are mouth-dead, good yes-men, they are MPs who are imprisoned in the prison of their own group and party. I think it is very important that the principle of the individual Member of Parliament, with their rights and duties, should be upheld. Members of parliament must feel free to carry out their political work according to conscience. Members of parliament should not be prisoners of any party. Members of parliament must feel that when they come to an end, they can strike a fair balance between their loyalty to the party, which is true loyalty and not a chain they cannot escape, and their own mind and conscience. That is freedom, that is the space that every human being needs to function properly and with dignity. We must not forget that we also know the instrument of roll-call voting. If all the sheep were here, we would be able to abolish that instrument. Nobody's gonna be there for that, right? To sum up, I cannot understand the views of parties in this house who are morally judging split-offs and who consider the split-offs to be profiteers and indecent traitors. I think it is fundamentally wrong to keep people with whips within your ranks and not to allow them freedom to express their own views, if that is really necessary. That is also something I can be held to if I am to sit in this Chamber as a group of the Free Party in the next period. I think it is wrong to make a moral judgment of principle about division. It is, of course, not nice for the parties concerned to leave the group, because the ability to act will be affected. That makes sense, of course, and I can understand that. That is, of course, a bitch, but that does not legitimise a criminal expedition as proposed in this new proposal. The task of the working group was to look at the formation of groups. How are we going to improve it? Grouping in the positive sense. How can we strengthen our democracy? Well-functioning political groups and cooperation between MPs are important in order to be able to offer a good counter-play against the cabinet. The role of the Chamber as co-legislator and auditor must be firmly anchored. This makes it necessary to think in a really positive way about the formation of groups. All Members of Parliament must be given equal support for the implementation of their own rights as representatives of the people. It is strange, however, that political groups formed after the elections lose money for the overhead costs for the group organisation at the time of a split. I don't think that's right. Free-minded politics is based on positive stimulation and not on punitive expeditions. So I'd like to make a proposal. Depending on the response, I will amend the proposals in question. I propose that the financial support be divided into two parts: one per Member of Parliament and one per Member of Parliament for the group. This reverses the construction of the funding that a group receives. No more money to support the group, but money to support every Member of Parliament. And then, when MPs start working together in a group, that group receives extra money for each member of parliament for the group's organizational costs. That amount will then remain at its level until the next elections. A division, which can always occur, therefore has no effect on the remuneration of the group's organisational costs, but the division is not entitled to it, since it has no overhead. Of course, this division is entitled to good substantive support. Of course, this will have to be budgetaryly neutral. To illustrate the above with the current figures: €150,000 per Member of Parliament in support and a plus of €20,000 if this Member of Parliament is a member of a political group. So you only get that plus if you're in a fraction. In other words, groups formed immediately after the elections, or when a group splits into equal parts. If you divide yourself from a fraction, in my view, in future, you will only get a fee, which is €150,000, while the €20,000 stays with the original fraction. That group also rightly has more overhead costs than a loner who splits up. That is more just than keeping the money with the group. I totally disagree with the way in which Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure is amended. The new article states that the Bureau may henceforth determine if a fraction continues to be two separate fractions after a split, which of the two may retain the original group name. So what part is the continuation of the original group? The new article also provides that the numerical ratio of the two parts will not be decisive. That is weird, because it means that the Presidium has to say who the good and who would not be the good group. In my view, it is not the Bureau's job to make a statement on this matter. At the time, in 2014, I experienced the Presidium as very carefully when the 50PLUS fraction split after the departure of the MP Krol. The Bureau then took the view that it could not and would not give an opinion on the internal affairs of, in this case, the 50PLUS Group. The Presidium has, in my view, rightly said nothing about this. After all, the Presidium would go into a snake pit. The commitment that the Presidium has to decide with some sort of salomon judgment who represents the original fraction and who does not, is by definition debatable. Criteria are not to be given. This makes the Bureau as the day-to-day administration of the Chamber vulnerable to all Members of Parliament. So don't. The Presidium should be above those parties, above the MPs. The best thing is to act, as is happening now, on the basis of objective standards. That is why I propose that numerical proportions be of decisive importance. If two equally large groups arise after a split, then it is indeed a split of the fraction and not a division. So they can both go through life as a group, while maintaining the corresponding privileges. If there are uneven parts, to express it so much, the majority is left behind, the fraction. The small part, which then separates, becomes the group. I will table an amendment to this effect. The core of our liberal democracy is that the majority will continue to take minority considerations into account. I also saw democracy in my working visit with V and J in Ethiopia, but then a democracy with the majority taking everything. The minority has checked. This proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure is likely to do the same in this House. Each minority created by division after the next election leads to a minority who has the check. They will become second-class MPs without equal support and without equivalent right to speak. We must ensure that the basis of our democracy remains in order. Each MP counts equally, even after 15 March 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u3	I listened to Mr Klein for 25 minutes, almost half an hour. I must say that with his contribution he has given an excellent defence of the proposal made by the Bureau to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u4	I don't hear a question. My question would be: what positive elements does Mr Veldman discover in that? The Bureau's proposal is, on the contrary, a very bad proposal, but perhaps Mr Veldman is listening selectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u5	Madam President. I would add my voice to the interruption and to Mr Klein's speech. I was wondering: if this amendment to the Rules of Procedure were to continue, would it still be possible for Mr Klein to speak for half an hour and to have the longest speaking time for about everyone who has signed up for this debate? My answer is: yes, it could still be. That is a good illustration of the fact that in this proposal too there is still a balance between the exercise of the individual rights of Members of Parliament and the fact that the situation after a split-off is something else, not because some Members of Parliament have more rights than others, but because the democratic legitimacy of a Member of Parliament who is speaking here for a long time and who has come here because he was on a list is different from that of a Member of Parliament who has been dismembered, because then you do not really know whether the electorate would have wanted it. We also have historical examples of this. Mrs Verdonk had a lot of votes on the VVD list, but when she came up with her own list, Proud of the Netherlands, the voter actually had no message about it. For me, that is precisely an illustration of the difference, not in rights and in constitutional mandates, which are the same for everyone, but in democratic legitimacy. We also require new list combinations to obtain support in the country and demand bailout and so on. Even then, new groups must be treated equally as well as divisions which may form a new list. That is my reflection on Mr Klein's speech. The starting point of our political system is representative democracy. Every Dutchman must be able to recognize himself in the parliament. That choice was made on purpose. Parliamentary democracy as we know it in the Netherlands is a great asset, including the space for smaller parties. The Group of the European People's Party led by my colleague and colleague, Bishop, has investigated the rules that apply and should apply to the division of Members of Parliament. This, in my group's view, has led to a good, thorough and substantive report with good recommendations. We do not have a strict group discipline in our group. So if I had had a different judgment, I could have brought it up today. However, we cannot ignore it: this is just a good report. In an insightful way, we have been mapped out which rules we know in the Netherlands for parliamentary membership and the political parties. I thank the committee for the work that has been done and the recommendations that have been made. I would like to express my thanks to the Bureau for the careful way in which this has been dealt with. I believe that this is a very balanced arrangement. Anyone who says that Members of Parliament are merely 'voting machines' is right to get a slap on the wrists of the Constitution. Each Member of Parliament shall, without burden, determine his or her position. It is the MP who decides what questions he or she wants to ask the government. He has an individual right to ask questions and the right to submit amendments or an initiative proposal. Our Constitution assumes that the individual MP, together with his 149 colleagues, represents the 'all Dutch people'. Our Constitution does not comment on political parties or political groups in parliament; there is no mention of a list system or political parties. Of course, this is the presupposition underlying the scheme. It is virtually inconceivable that 150 Members of Parliament should be elected. We do not have a district system either, precisely because we are committed to the constitutional principle of proportional representation. This is also apparent from various other laws, such as the Tickets Act. It contains certain demands for political parties. On the basis of the Constitution and the other laws, the conclusion must therefore be that our constitutional system, our political system, is a combination of individual and collective rights of Members of Parliament. The election of MPs takes place through the system of political parties. The exercise of parliamentary membership is based on individual rights. The design is through cooperation in a political group. The individual rights of Members of Parliament are great, they are, in principle, unlimited. Yet not every MP can do what he or she wants. If I, as a member of the SGP Chamber, suddenly thought: let me suggest a substantial extension of abortion or euthanasia, I do have a problem with the voters who have supported me on the basis of a certain list and principles. Nor do I expect the elderly parties to suddenly propose to raise the age of AOW. Not to mention a PVV member who comes up with a proposal to subsidise mosques in cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Van der Staaij gives an example. He says: imagine that the SGP would be for abortion at once. Imagine if this were to happen, does he think that he could still stand up for the voters who elected him as a person to ensure that abortion legislation does not come into force? Could he then split off? Does he think he would have the same rights as the sitting SGPs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u7	This is a clear question which deserves a clear answer. If I came to a different conviction through good discussions or good debates, I would cancel my membership of the Chamber. I would say that the SGP has a position on this and people have chosen to do so, not just because they thought Kees van der Staaij was such a nice man. It was always a combination of the person and the party and the views it stands for. I'd quit, and I'd do my best to set up an enlightened SGP. Next time, I'd try to get that lighted SGP into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u8	I can see that the SGP's Van der Staaij has been around for a long time, because he is around the question. The question was not about a situation where the SGP is going to think differently. Suppose Mr Van der Staaij was elected on the basis of an election programme. The SGP will then take a position at a congress or elsewhere during this journey other than that stated in the electoral programme, on the basis of which Mr Van der Staaij was elected. Does he then run away from the responsibility he has to his constituents to fight against abortion legislation? He can run away from that, but doesn't he think he can keep the same rights if he doesn't run away from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u9	If the whole party suddenly thinks differently, I could keep the counter-story here that I was elected on the basis of the election programme. So that's another situation. You will indeed be closer to what has been said to the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u10	I see that you want to interrupt again, Mr Houwers, but we are doing the interruptions in two, and I would like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u11	The proposal we are discussing today focuses on the division of a political group. I told you, you were elected through a political party for a reason. It may therefore be expected that you are loyal to your party's vision and views. Otherwise, you shouldn't have agreed to be placed on the list of candidates. It is more than logical for Members of Parliament to do their work in conjunction with their group's colleagues. The individual rights of Members of Parliament are therefore great, but they are within the limits of the common principles. As a member of parliament, you have an independent mandate, but not an individual toko. However, the loyalty of the group also has limits. There was talk of group discipline. Indeed, cadaver discipline and restraint are out of the question, but if too much pressure is being exerted and Members of Parliament think 'I cannot experience this', then that is not a problem that must be resolved first and foremost by the Chamber, but that must be resolved by the individual Member and his group. As a Member of Parliament, you have, after all, your constitutional rights. For example, you can always ask for a roll-call vote on any bill or motion. An arrangement doesn't change a tittel or iota, even today. Constitutional rights are thus fully respected in this respect. However, if a Member of the European Parliament is about to receive a premium on the eligibility of the list for which he was elected, then clearly something is wrong. It shouldn't be attractive to move on independently. That is not what is democratically right. We welcome the fact that this is being dealt with now. Splitting you off from a fraction you've been elected for is a far-reaching, conscious, principled act. Loyalty is good, but it should not be required to the utmost. If one or more Members of Parliament are unable to do their job properly within the group, then they should be able to choose to give up their seats and remain independent, but a financial reward is undesirable. We don't want to put a bounty on split-off. That is clearly the starting point. It is good that the Bureau has decided to include a limited fee for secretarial support in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr Van der Staaij pretends to be a financial discouragement means that a Member of Parliament who separates himself will be financially worse or better, but that does not matter at all. The financial incentive to do something or not is therefore not present at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u13	In any case, Mr Klein himself makes a nice relativization, namely that individual compensation and so on are not at issue. They're not gonna get hit by this. That is different if the Member of Parliament also wishes to support a political group to some extent. I think the Presidium makes a fair choice. It really makes a relevant difference whether you came in with a fraction of what the voter said "yes" to, or whether you started a new group yourself during the term. That is another democratic legitimacy. This should certainly not be encouraged, as is the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u14	There is absolutely no encouragement, because everyone does it simply because it is given at some point. For example, you want to continue to represent the voters who support you. However, it is much more important to point out that at that time support for such Members of Parliament, to put it bluntly, may be reduced. Is Mr Van der Staaij therefore in favour of all the groups having the same kind of support?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u15	No, not everyone needs the same support. A certain budget is available for parties who have received the blessing of the electorate. There is also a somewhat more limited regime for those who do not have the electoral mandate for their group, but are allowed to continue as MPs and do not have to give up their seats. That is not the case in all countries. That is quite a concession towards dismembered Members of Parliament. I think it is right and I am defending it, because I think that the system should have a valve for excessive fractional pressure. It is therefore a good thing that the possibility of division remains intact, but it is not sufficiently discouraged now, is the SGP Group's theorem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u16	No, Mr Klein, interruptions go in two in this Chamber. That makes the interruptions sharper. We're not gonna play games here. Mr Van der Staaij simply finishes his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u17	There is no difference between this proposal and the current procedure: it always depends on the favor of the President for all Members. Finally, I come to the amendment that I have tabled with a number of members of the current Committee on Intelligence and Security (34567, No. 6). The committee has assessed the situation over the past period and has said that if we want to propose a change to this, we must do so now, before the elections, because it is only then that we can determine objective rules of the game. If there is a new composition, it seems to be a kind of opportunity solution to that situation. That is why we have put forward the proposal for a more limited composition of the Committee on Intelligence and Security with a view to reducing the risk of leaks, promoting maximum transparency on the part of the directors, ensuring the best possible control of the work of the security services and promoting the effectiveness of the committee, for example for the appointment of emergency meetings. Those were the backgrounds. For these reasons, it has been proposed with great consensus that the number of members of the Intelligence and Security Services Committee should be limited to the group chairmen of the five largest parties. There is also the possibility of extending the committee to two members for reasons of continuity or balance. Even as a member of a small group, I support this amendment, even if it means that if my group does not belong to the big five after the forthcoming elections, I would no longer be part of the committee. I have no problem with that, because I think it is important that political control from the Chamber as a whole should be as good, balanced and sensible as possible. That was my explanation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u18	I have a question about the support of MPs. Does Mr Van der Staaij think that it is really very unfortunate that small groups should receive relatively more support on the basis of the number of Members of Parliament? For example, there is the category up to four members and the category up to ten members. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats falls into the category of up to four members, while the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has a mandate for three seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u19	There has been a long and wide debate on fair standards for the financing of the various groups in this House. In doing so, account has been taken of the economies of scale of large parties, which occur to a lesser extent in small parties. That has been taken into account. I don't need to change anything there. That's not really a question of how to deal with splits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u20	You measure in two sizes. Members of parliament who are in a small fraction will receive more support. In your case, you will receive funding to support four MPs, while your group has only received three MPs from the electorate. If only one MP has been elected, that person will receive funding for the support of two MPs. A "loose" MP would get zero point zero. Don't you measure with two sizes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u21	That is a very different matter from the question of how to deal with division. I did not hear Mr Klein say, when he was in the 50PLUS group together with his colleague Mr Krol, that they felt that they were too rich as a small group. He is now having a very different discussion about the amounts, about the distribution of funds between smaller and larger groups, than the debate we are discussing today: the two measures for how we deal with groups that have been given the blessing of the electorate and the groups that have arisen without the voter being able to express their opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u22	I have two questions. First of all, splits are of all times. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about an incentive premium for split-off. Can he indicate exactly what the incentive premium is made up of? Secondly, what is the problem with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u23	Then I have to sum up the whole report, because it is all described in detail. Mr Houwers is right that divisions are of all times. He asks what the incentive premium is. That is, for example, the fact that it has already been mentioned and dealt with here, that you will again be chairman of the political groups and receive a limited additional fee. Let me give you another example. You actually have, practically speaking, much more opportunity to speak in the Chamber than when you have to divide the cake between a large number of political groups. In that sense, you use much more speaking time without a mandate from the electorate. This is also an imbalance between the speaking time of newly formed groups and existing groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u24	Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with me that there is simply a false image when you talk about a group chairman's allowance? We are talking, I believe, about about €50. Then he's got a bit of a visual on that. He'll know for sure. Then I think: such a sum per month cannot be the incentive premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u25	It's a higher amount, even if you look at it every year. It can go up to €1,000. Of course, this also depends on the number of members. Apart from that, the fact that you are simply facilitated as a division, even with a considerable amount of support, does not fit in with the lesser democratic mandate you have compared to those who have entered the list of political parties. It is also important for the functioning of parliamentary democracy to be encouraged as much as possible by the formation of political groups. This is the other signal now. There is insufficient discouragement from the current regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you. I thought you came to the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mr. Chairman. Both inside and outside the House of Representatives there is great discontent about the fragmentation in the House of Representatives and more particularly about the large number of divisions we have had to deal with in recent years. In the current period of office, there are no less than eight separate seats. The House of Representatives must now work with 17 political groups instead of the eleven political groups it started this period. In addition to the feeling of injustice about the claimed position as a full group by dismembered members, the large number of groups does not improve the functioning of the Chamber. Unfortunately, there is now no brake or restriction on Members to separate themselves from the group in which they started. A difference in support as is currently proposed between political groups and dismembered members, which we are about to call groups, is therefore also desirable. The current Rules of Procedure do not provide sufficient guidance and the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure are therefore very welcome. I'd like to explain why. To keep our parliamentary democracy workable, it is to be welcomed that MPs form groups on the basis of their party. A parliament with 150 individual Members of Parliament, i.e. 150 political groups, is completely unworkable. Imagine if 150 Members were to take part in this debate, with almost half an hour's subscription time, as Mr Klein did. That would be completely unworkable. Grouping thus helps to ensure the proper functioning of parliamentary democracy. It should therefore be rewarded, including in order to discourage splits. I say 'discourage' because, unfortunately, we cannot stop splitting up. Constitutionally, the seat belongs to the elected one. The dilemma of the independent position of a Member of Parliament vis-à-vis being elected by a list of parties is not resolved here and now by amending the Rules of Procedure. The VVD wholeheartedly supports the Bureau's proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. I would like to express my thanks and appreciation to the working group led by Mr Bishop, who has made it clear how and what the possibilities are and who has also made a first proposal for this. The VVD supports the modification made by the Bureau in relation to the working group's proposal. The working group proposed that groups should no longer be given any form of financial support. However, to keep the demanding Chamberwork organized on track, it is good that every MP gets a basic form of support. The Bureau's proposal can therefore count on our support. With a basic support, any dismembered MP can simply do their job. However, it is to be welcomed that Members of Parliament will be able to lend a hand to the proper functioning of Parliament when they come into office through the formation of political groups. This may, as I said, be rewarded. This makes it a good thing for the VVD to distinguish between groups and groups in terms of support. This is a difference in support between groups starting at the beginning of the parliamentary term and groups forming later. In doing so, it is a kind of reward for taking responsibility for a well-functioning parliament. Of course, it is appropriate that in the allocation of speaking time groups are given half the speaking time of a fraction of the same size. It is also logical that there should be room for one follow-up question at Group Question Time rather than two follow-up questions. The members of the Committee for the Intelligence and Security Services (CIVD) have adopted the amendment in respect of item No. 6 to amend the composition of the CIVD from the next Chamber. This amendment also fits in with the line we need to ensure together: a well-functioning parliament and therefore also a well-functioning CIVD, which is compiled on the basis of a number of objective criteria. A limited amount of CIVD promotes flexibility which makes it easier and faster to respond to current events. In addition, the risk of a leak of state secret information is limited with a smaller CIVD. In short, these are two good proposals. I have no further questions about that. I think we should just do whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u29	The chairman of the VVD has made a number of statements about the loyalty of MPs and the possibility of leaking state secret information. I ask Mr Veldman of the VVD to reflect on that. What does he think of these statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u30	I believe that every Member of Parliament who comes into contact with state secret information has a responsibility to deal with it properly. That means he's keeping that information to himself. That applies to any Member of Parliament who comes into contact with that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mr Kuzu has an interruption in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u32	This may be an interruption in the second instance, but I am not counting her for a moment, because no answer has been given to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u33	That is what I am going to say, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u34	I understand that you are dealing with that, Mr President, but I would appreciate it if Mr Veldman would answer the question. I ask him a specific question. Mr Zijlstra made a number of statements about me and my group at Pauw. He said that we would not be loyal to the Netherlands and that we would be able to leak secret information to other powers. Quite specifically, what does Mr Veldman think of that? I would like you to give me the opportunity to ask another follow-up question later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u35	I think any MP who comes into contact with state-secret information is capable of leaking. Every Member of Parliament, you can tell him or her not to do this. That is precisely why the members of the CIVD have tabled an amendment aimed at limiting the size of the CIVD in the next period. I think that makes sense. I have now lost count, but I think the counter is at 65 parties who want to participate in the Lower House elections. Imagine us sitting here with 65 parties and 65 group chairmen are members of the CIVD. I think that is completely unworkable. It is therefore very good that this is limited to five members, possibly extending it to two additional members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr. Kuzu. I will give you an opportunity to ask a brief follow-up question, but every Member of Parliament is talking about his own answers. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u37	I am grateful for that, Mr President. Thank you. Mr Veldman revolves around the question. Mr Zijlstra made a very specific point during an interview that this does not apply to all Members of Parliament. It was specifically aimed at a number of MPs, in this case two MPs in this Chamber who would not be able to deal with state secret information. As far as I am concerned, that is a suspicion. I cannot escape the impression that this proposal was made because we might be able to leak information to other powers. I have also specifically asked Mr Zijlstra this question. I asked: do you have any concrete signals that this type of practice has taken place in the past in this committee? If not, then this is just a crooked proposal, the idiotry at the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u38	I do not hear a question, but it is a pity that Mr Kuzu is involved in this. I think the criteria are very clear. The five largest parties will soon be part of the CIVD. Apparently, Mr Kuzu does not have the ambition to become one of those five largest parties. That's too bad for him, because ambition in life is very nice. Perhaps Mr Kuzu should have that ambition. If he is a member of one of the five largest parties, he is automatically a member of the CIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of my fellow Members from the Christian Union, who have unfortunately been prevented from speaking today. The issue of the split-off of the political group was discussed in detail in the discussion of the 2016 estimate. We started this period with eleven groups, but now there are 17, an increase of more than 50%. An optimist would say: that is a fertile House of Representatives. But last weekend I met Mr Kessels from Peel and Maas who looks at Political 24 every time. He doesn't see it that way. He says: if you continue like this in The Hague, we will have 150 groups. With that, he hit the nail on the head. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, it is obvious that Members who split up do not necessarily have the same conditions as Members who operate in a political group. This is without prejudice to the constitutional rights of elected Members of Parliament, such as the right to request information, the right to submit own-initiative proposals and the right to make use of amendments. Those rights are beyond question. Today, we are discussing the Bureau's proposals to re-organise the effects of the division of political groups within the Rules of Procedure and the other rules of the Chamber, in the interests of the functioning of the Chamber as a whole and thus in the interests of the quality of our parliamentary democracy. All members have and shall retain the rights directly deriving from their membership of parliament. Only members who form a political group after their election and those who fill a political group vacancy shall be entitled to the conditions arising from membership of the political group. The CDA Group supports the proposals put forward by the Bureau. We think it is logical that there is no group chairman's allowance for a split group. We also welcome the fact that a split group cannot claim the same speaking time as a fraction of the same size. We saw it yesterday in the Social Affairs budget: an initial eight-hour period with 18 speakers. I think they say in the rest of the country, "What are you doing?" However, my group believes that the Bureau is wise not to completely delete the support of dismembered Members. Finally, we ask the Bureau whether there is any provision for an evaluation of the proposed arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr Amhaouch has not been paying attention, Mr President. For budget debates, we agreed on a speaking time of the political groups. Each group has been given a number of minutes. Each group is free to allocate that speaking time. Mr Amhaouch suggests that yesterday things got a little out of hand because so many minutes have been used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u41	Your question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u42	My question is: do you want to distance yourself from that? It is clear: everyone has been given the same amount, according to the size of the fraction. Secondly, if you say that the speaking time should be the size of the group, how can your group be given the same speaking time as the VVD Group in a debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u43	The point I wanted to make to Mr Klein about speaking time is that we are discussing the budget with 18 speakers. Surely you cannot admit that a budget debate with 18 speakers is normal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u44	Of course it's normal. We are dealing with a division of speaking time between political groups as we agreed. That's what we do. That will not change in the next period, when people are no longer part of the group. It will be exactly the same, because constitutional rights remain the same. They too can simply use their speaking time. However, they do have less speaking time than the others. They can redistribute them themselves, in the same way as we have regulated them at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u45	I really want to ask you a question right now. That is why there are interruptions; not for a whole speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u46	Whole speeches are being made here behind the interrupting microphone, as I heard again yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u47	You do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u48	That's what you're gonna get past...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u49	I'm gonna turn off your microphone. I asked you to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u50	My question is: then it will be clear that Mr Amhaouch is completely on the wrong side when he says that "equal rights, equal speaking time" is actually being implemented, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u51	In conclusion, I am on the wrong side, with the rest of the Netherlands, because people no longer understand that with so many different parties, so many divisions, we are doing the budgetary treatment in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u52	Is Mr Amhaouch prepared to state that these 18 speakers were in particular 18, not because of the split-ups, but because of the fact that large parties with two speakers are taking part in a budget debate? Does he think that makes any sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u53	You can talk about that. The major parties have a certain amount of speaking time. I think the two largest parties had two speakers. The rest had one. It was an interesting debate in itself last night, but there were two parties with two speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u54	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u55	My speech has been concluded, Mr President, but there will be further interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u56	Why does Mr Amhaouch come up with a false presentation of things, is my question, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u57	Can the questioner explain the question a little more?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u58	Yes. We are talking about 18 speakers and a certain number of minutes of speaking time. The SP reported an hour's speaking time. 50PLUS has reported 70 minutes of speaking time. The cuts you're talking about requested ten minutes. Why do you come up with a false presentation of things, Mr Amhaouch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u59	Once again, we started with 11 parties after the elections. For less than four years, we have gone to 17 political groups. I do not think that Mr Kuzu can frustrate that. Anyone can want to speak at any time. If we want to be functional in this parliamentary democracy, it is not normal for the CDA to think so, but also for a large part of the rest of the Netherlands to say that we are doing eight hours of debate in the first term alone, and that we should have the second term, and that we should do so with eighteen speakers. Once again, I must be on the wrong side and Mr Kuzu is on the right side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u60	Let me reflect on Mr Amhaouch's own words. He is suffering from hours of speaking time during such a debate and from the number of speakers who are taking part in it, but what really matters is that his own words are that debates take too long and that it is unworkable. My specific question is: do these debates last long because 50PLUS requests 70 minutes, the SP 60 minutes and us ten minutes? Is that why you think it's taking too long? Do those ten minutes we spend on this make the situation unworkable for the whole of the CDA? What ridicule! Why are you giving a false presentation of things?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u61	Your question is clear, Mr Kuzu. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr Kuzu himself is part of the situation that we have started with eleven parties and ended with seventeen. He now takes one point about speaking time, but the proposal goes much further. It is also about the number of questions that are asked in terms of time limits and Question Time. It's about a lot more business. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u63	Thank you. I would now like to invite Mr Kuzu to make his contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr. Chairman. The Presidium is all set. First of all, I would like to say that this proposal is not going to affect us, but I think it is important to take part in this debate in principle. It is not possible for us to organise a class A room members and a class B room members by means of lower regulations. Group splits are not the problem, they are a symptom of a broken group discipline. That group discipline is a major disadvantage of today's politics. Group chairmen are often some kind of mini-dictators. If you don't join the party top line, you're gonna get pressured and you're a dissident. That word is significant, because it should not belong in an open democracy. Members of parliament who do not succumb to the pressure of the party summit are not dissidents, but warriors. The word dissident belongs to the old dictatorial regimes in Eastern Europe and Latin America. We therefore see split-off as a counter-force against group discipline and against the jabber democracy. Members of parliament must be able to speak their hearts. Members of Parliament should be able to disagree with their group, of course not always, because that would make it unworkable, but sometimes it should be possible, on points that are essential for them. That is also stated in the Constitution. The Constitution requires members of parliament to vote without burden. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case in today's politics. Members of parliament are under great pressure from their party top. They have to go with the herd. And if they don't go with the herd, they're gonna have a lover. Then they won't be on the list of candidates at the next election. Critical MPs are thus calved; sometimes they are even thrown out immediately. By adjusting the Rules of Procedure, we create A-groups and B-groups and create second-class MPs who cannot do their work properly, MPs who are punished for being thrown out of their political groups, MPs who receive less support. They only get a secretary instead of the support of a secretary and a policy officer. This reduces the quality of democracy. That's like giving a surgeon an assistant to make appointments, but not a nurse to deliver the scalpel during surgery. You're gonna kill the patient with that. Why should we want to destroy democracy? Why should we want to reduce the quality of democracy? And why do we do that by passing the Constitution? That is what we are actually doing if we change the lower legislation outside the higher legislation. It is and remains an extremely dubious course of action. Independent advice was deliberately not sought. We asked for the opinion of the Council of State in a motion last June, but that motion was almost rejected in a Chamber. I sometimes wonder why we are having a debate here today. When I look at Vak-K at the moment, I see that it has long been concluded, that those appointments have already been made. The President of the Chamber, Mrs Arib, gets mad at me when I use the word 'fake commission'. I would like to congratulate Mr Bishop on his committee on this. There are several reasons why this is at the heart of Dutch democracy. The strength of our democracy is demonstrated, among other things, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the Minorities need to be given space, minorities need to be protected, so we should not start to restrict the rights of minorities by a democratic majority. This goes directly against the spirit of democracy. I'm gonna be on the committee sneak-out. Mr Zijlstra has tabled an amendment to that effect. That amendment is also secretly prepared. It's almost Chamberwide signed. I think the names of all political parties are underneath it, except ours. What's it about? Only the five largest parties are allowed to sit in committee secretly. We know from Mr Zijlstra's statements that this has something to do with DENK. He has openly questioned the loyalty of me and my group. That's ridicul. We have sworn allegiance to the Constitution. The whole politics, all established political parties, want to exclude DENK. They knowingly say, "I don't trust it, I don't trust you, you're not loyal." This sends out the wrong message to society, which is the signal that a group of people can be excluded and that exclusion is okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u65	As co-author of the amendment, I would like to emphasise that this was done on the basis of an evaluation by the committee itself. So it's really wrong to even consider this to be aimed at the goal of excluding DENK. With all due respect, Mr Kuzu is giving himself a little too much credit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u66	Mr Van der Staaij can try to tell us that. But I am looking at the actions of Mr Zijlstra and of the VVD in the past period. In May 2016, the VVD presented the proposal to review MPs, group chairmen and future group chairmen. It was formulated in such a way that it was broad. It would be not just about us, it would be about all the group chairmen. That's an opportunity argument. I then see this amendment passing by. I was surprised by it, too. Mr Van der Staaij can now claim that this has been done because of an evaluation, but this is surprising for everyone in the outside world, except for those on the committee. Given the actions of the initiator of this proposal, Mr Zijlstra, in the past period, I cannot escape the impression that there is indeed a thought behind this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u67	We hear quite a few allegations from Mr Kuzu here, so let me ask him a simple question. Does he agree with me that the amendment simply contains objective criteria that determine the composition of the CIVD? Does he agree with me that there is an opportunity for every party participating in the elections to be a member of that CIVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u68	I say again: I am looking at the past period of action. I'm listening to the statements that have been made. I'm sure there's a purpose behind that. Next: there is a thought, and then what is the course of action? The way things are going is: yes, we also have to think of a few objective criteria that allow us to set it up in such a way that we can achieve exactly the goal that we have set in mind. Those are twisting proposals. This is not appropriate, because it calls into question the loyalty of a group of people in this society. And I know the VVD wants to do that. The VVD is competing with the PVV for electoral gain. The VVD is trying to get voters off the PVV. And yes, these kinds of proposals fit exactly into that picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u69	I note that Mr Kuzu agrees with me and therefore with the rest of the Chamber. When you read the amendment, you just see objective criteria in it that define who is a member of that CIVD. I shall leave Mr Kuzu's thoughts with him. It's too bad he wants to put it that way. It is a pity that he walks such a way through the twisting in his own head. I think facts are facts. There is a clear amendment. It says very clearly: the five largest parties are members of the CIVD, and the CIVD itself can extend it by two members. So for everyone who participates in the elections, there is a chance to get into that CIVD. I would say, Mr Kuzu, do your best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u70	You know what's a shame? It is a pity that the VVD has done its stinking best to fish in that electoral pond of Geert Wilders. This calls into question the loyalty of a group of people in this society. Mr Veldman can now talk about objective proposals. That's how I can do it. I have a purpose in mind. What am I supposed to do? I will then have to establish some "objective criteria" to ensure that I achieve that goal. They'll be able to scramble in "K" over there. I see, in particular, a number of people doing that. But this is the reality. That's not just my thought. That is the impression that exists in a large part of society. We have tabled a sub-amendment to Mr Zijlstra's amendment. We spoke yesterday about a motion to prevent foreign funding of parties. So when we talk about loyalty, I challenge the VVD, the CDA and the PVV not to appoint the group chairmen of the parties receiving foreign funding in committee secretly. If you really want to solve the problem, I particularly challenge these parties to go along with it. We are not in favour of the committee sneak-out. We don't need this sneaky shit. The committee secretly leaks. The committee secretly stinks. I have long indicated that Mr Veldman can pass that on to his group chairman; I have also told him by telephone that I do not need to be on that committee at all. I do not need to know what the citizen is not supposed to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u71	I have remained seated, but I would like to return to what Mr Kuzu said earlier in his speech. Why is he making the grave accusation that this committee is a "cooperative committee"? Can he explain that? I didn't want to give that more credit than I had to, but I challenge him to further support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u72	I can be very easy about that. I remember very well that all the political parties were in line to applaud when Mr Bontes, Mr Van Klaveren and Mr Van Vliet split off from the PVV. They wanted more; let that PVV fall all the way apart! Yes, Mr Amhaouch, you can frown your eyebrows, but that was the case. You weren't there at the time. When we had then separated ourselves from the PvdA, I noticed that suddenly all kinds of mechanisms were in place. It was said that we need to set a threshold for voting and we need to look again at the way in which we set it up. In the Netherlands it works as follows. If a proposal has to be made, research will be carried out first. A committee will be set up. Then anyone can point to that investigation and that committee to say that it is all possible. The essence of this proposal is that different types of MPs are created. Again, this is not about ourselves, because in the next period it is not going to affect us. But MPs, whether they are dismembered or not, should simply be able to carry out their work properly. That's what my plea is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u73	Mr Van Nispen in the second instance. I would ask Mr Kuzu to reply a little bit less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u74	Mr Kuzu may think so. We may differ on that, but it is not really an answer to the question. He does not support the fact that this committee would not have done any serious work. This committee has acted with all due respect. Mr Kuzu does not prove otherwise. In fact, the conclusion is no different than that the committee did not do what Mr Kuzu wanted, and that, in his view, makes this committee a 'cooperative committee'. That's got to be the conclusion, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u75	No, because it is not just about the actions of this committee but also about what took place prior to that. I just tried to explain that to Mr Van Nispen. The work of this committee was aimed at coming up with a number of proposals that do justice to the concerns of the established political parties, because they found the situation unworkable at the time it happened to them themselves. Once again, however, we are talking about the fight against symptoms. Snapping is not the problem. We should address the causes of the fragmentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u76	It is sad to hear that a Member of Parliament here calls the committee secretly, which takes care of national security, a'stick committee'. I really regret that. I come to Mr Kuzu's amendment on foreign financing. We have indeed doubted whether we should support the motion tabled by Mr Öztürk. But that motion doesn't make any sense. Germany and England have no prohibition on financing by foreign organisations or persons. They have limitations on that. We are prepared to look together with the Chamber at a motion that is correct, and which may receive broad support, with the content of which is that, within the framework of the Council of Europe, as indicated by the Minister, in view of what is being done in Germany and the United Kingdom, we will come up with a good legislative proposal that restricts foreign funding. But then you shouldn't come forward with a motion that is factually incorrect. If we do it in that order, your amendment is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u77	Oh, now the CDA comes up with it saying our motions aren't right. I find that very interesting, because I have seen the CDA come by regularly in the past with motions that are not right either. This is also about the signal. The signal we are sending is that we want to make the foreign funding of political parties impossible. I would like to put a question to Mr Amhaouch. From the CDA I have seen a lot of motions over the past period about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u78	We're not going to give a whole list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u79	No, I'm not gonna do that. About the financing by abroad of prayer houses in the Netherlands. If it hadn't been for foreign funding, but for financing from Turkey or from Islamic countries, it probably wouldn't have been a problem for the CDA to support it, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u80	Mr Kuzu is now on a side road. I want to go back. Is Mr Kuzu prepared, if we find broad support for that motion, to support a motion calling for restrictions on foreign funding of political parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u81	I'm prepared to do that. I'd love to. I would like to discuss with you after this debate a wording that the CDA can also support. For then we have a majority in this Chamber, with which we have achieved our goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u82	Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u83	I can see minus 21 on the display. I would like to table a short motion in the second term, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u84	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u85	Mr. Chairman. I consider myself a left-wing feminist, but I must say that today the first words of Mr Van der Staaij were taken from my heart. Although I often have discussions with the SGP about a number of things I would like to see set up differently in society, he spoke very well about how we should operate in the Chamber. Compliments to Mr Bishop, who has proposed this together with his working group. I think they have come to a good and careful proposal. As MPs, we must represent our constituents, not just ourselves. As a chamber, we must be able to work effectively. When our mandate began in 2012, eleven parties were elected to the House of Representatives. It was said back then that there were quite a lot of them. In the meantime, we are sitting here together with seventeen groups and groups. This is because separation is relatively beneficial, both in the financial sense and in personal speaking time. It is a good thing that the Chamber has examined the matter in order, at least by means of the Rules of Procedure, to amend the Rules of Procedure in order to remove that part of the incentive. That is why my group supports the proposals of the Presidium, as most speakers have already done. It is not fair for Members to benefit financially if they split up. The PvdA also welcomes the fact that speaking time is being looked at. The balance is really missing, if you see that the largest group, the VVD with 40 members, had 400 minutes to discuss all the budgets in this Chamber, and splitters had 30 minutes individually for that. That simply means three times as much per Member of Parliament. You see the same thing when you look at the way we are now working on the increases for group chairmen. First there were 11 of them, now there's 17 of them. This is without prejudice to the constitutional and legal rights of individual Members of Parliament. All MPs, split up or not, can ask questions of Parliament, submit own-initiative laws, table amendments or table motions. It's all possible. It is therefore a good thing that the Bureau is proposing to take over the proposal of the Bishop Commission, but with a slight adjustment, namely that there is still a budget for split-ups in order at least to be able to function and to have support to answer the phone and/or organize your work if you disconnect. My group supports this adjustment. We are happy to accept the other proposals from the Bureau, as others have mentioned. My party supports them and we do not have any questions to the Bureau. Finally, I would like to say that we also support the amendment on the CIVD. This is a good proposal to create a workable and better organised CIVD, with at least the Chamber itself being adequately informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mr. Chairman. At the 2012 Lower House elections, 28 of the 150 members reached the preferred threshold, a quarter of the votes required for one seat. One candidate, the Pirate Party's leader, did get enough preferred votes, but his party didn't get enough votes for a seat. It does show, I think, that MPs with their list come into the Chamber. They endorse the programme on which the voter elected them. That voter expects that, too. Nevertheless, Members of Parliament must have the freedom to make their own choices and, if necessary, to add the ultimate consequence: to leave the group or the party. That fundamental right, a safeguard against suffocating group discipline, must and must not be undermined. The Bureau and the Group of the European People's Party agree on this. This does not alter the extent to which a'self-employed MP' should be treated in the same way as elected political groups. In my group's view, this amendment to the Rules of Procedure makes sensible choices: of course, the right to move to a VAO, but shorter time to do so; but the right to respond in Question Time, but less often than a political group, which is very important for my group, is the right to support. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wanted this to be abolished in the first instance. In her minority opinion, my colleague, Mrs Koşer Kaya, expressed his disagreement. I'm glad to see the Bureau followed that. A Member of Parliament must have a minimum level of support, even if it continues independently. The budget now proposed will do so. I would like to thank my fellow Members, Mr Taverne, Mrs Fokke, Mr Van Raak, Mr Rog, Mr Bosma, Mrs Koşer Kaya, Mr Bishop, Mr Krol and Mr Klein for the time they have spent in the report on the basis of this amendment and the Bureau's speedy transposition into an amendment, so that the amended rules can enter into force during the next parliamentary period. I would like to make one more personal comment. I'm not gonna split up now, I'm gonna tell the viewers at home. I have to say, everyone who tends to come up, but we're not gonna do that. You're gonna get a lot of attention all of a sudden. Members of parliament who were barely allowed to get the coffee in the group are suddenly raised on stage like heroes. That's attractive, but I'm not gonna do it anyway. There is something striking in the phenomenon of Members of Parliament who split off and remain seated. They are only men, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. Women don't do that. I don't have a direct explanation for that. I'm gonna ask the Bureau to reflect on that. My point is, women are wiser than men.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u87	Mr. Chairman. It is amazing how D66 can bring gender issues into any subject. My party once started as a split-off. That happened in 2004, when my political foreman, Geert Wilders, detached himself from the VVD. At the time, he was concerned, among other things, with Turkey's possible membership of the EU. A lot of people were very angry about that position at the time, in 2004. Now many agree with him, including more and more people from his former party. Despite our own history of origin, my group is happy to endorse the presidency's proposal. I'll explain why. Whoever looks at this long, long list of splits, which starts in the 1930s, sees a lot of unknown names. Those are people who left their group, but left no trace of it in parliamentary history. They didn't set up parties or they weren't elected. They disappeared into oblivion. That's the rule we're talking about. My group leader is quite clearly the exception in this parliamentary history. Our position in the field of political forces and in the polls, I would like to say that this is also very clear. For ten years we have been a party that has earned a place in parliament and in society. But it's still the exception and you can't make rules on exceptions, you can't make policies. You need to generalize. Now that we are dealing with 17 political groups in this Chamber, a number of colleagues have already reminded us that it is time to change the rules. I congratulate the Bishop and the Bureau on this proposal for a change. Indeed, all these splits make the Chamber work a lot more complicated: many more speakers and much more work for the Registry to facilitate all these new groups. In recent years, the number of splits has only increased. The most recent opinion poll, yesterday's from TNS NIPO, shows that today's splits will go down in glory again. They can be incredibly loud here at the interrupting microphone, but electorally they don't really matter. The Netherlands doesn't see them and the Netherlands doesn't want them either. Who says that splits do not actually exist, they are right, at least according to the letter of the law. That has already been mentioned in detail. We have indeed been elected as individuals and not as members of a party. That is true by the letter of the law, but that ignores reality, namely that in practice we have all been on a list, have all committed ourselves to an election programme and that we owe it to our membership of the Chamber. The Chamber is all set up to work with political groups. That's a good thing. That has been said a number of times. Imagine if we were standing here with 150 group leaders, even this consideration would take a month. That is why the route of the Presidium is the right one, namely to reward fractional formation. Groups therefore receive provisions, such as funding and staff. Anyone who departs from a group does not get those facilities, except for that one employee. Separating remains possible, but no longer at the expense of the facilities of the political groups. That is right, and that is also true of the spirit of the law and of the existing practice. My group therefore believes that the limitation of division is in line with a very broad-based feeling in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u88	Mr Beertema responded to Mr Van Meenen and said that the D66 Group always brings up gender issues everywhere. I mentioned already the member Verdonk, who started for himself in September 2007. Is the fact that D66 overlooks this, now a lack of historical awareness or a blurring of the gender differences in that party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u89	This interruption by Mr Van der Staaij is in any case an example of the enormous memory and alertness he has.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u90	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a right to choose persons. That is the basis of our parliamentary work. If you want to change that, you have to change it in the Constitution and in the Election Act. We don't. A Member of the House of Representatives can take a seat on his own and the explanation is given: without burden. The question is whether that still works. Does not a Member of Parliament, in the way that we are going to set it up and the line we are now choosing, become more and more an employee of a political group or perhaps of a party? Because that line seems to be there and that worries me, I, together with Mr Van Vliet, also asked a split-uper about the situation of SP-Room members, because we have the impression that agreements have been made there, which do not do justice to that being able to work independently as a Dutch MP. What exactly is the problem? I have already asked others, including Mr Van der Staaij. Apparently, it's about splits, but splits are of all times. Then if you want to tackle a problem, in my opinion, you should talk to those who split off, so you know what the reason for splitting it off is. After all, if you know what the problem is, you might also be able to see what the solution might be. The question is whether this will be the solution and whether it will lead to fewer divisions. I don't think so. A wrong picture is being sketched. It's suggested that you're making a huge leap if you split off, but I don't think that's true. I think everyone here knows that, too. Sometimes groups are unable to keep frogs in their wheelbarrows, to make their own arrangements, to make sure that they have arranged things and to make a moral appeal to group members. Isn't it a little special that, if they can't do all that, they can report themselves as a sign of weakness to the Chamber Organization, to the Bureau, with the question: can't you settle something? In fact, that's what's happening here. I find this situation a little strange. If we are talking about spending time, too long meetings and too many parties, it would be a much more logical line, by the way, not my line, to opt for a threshold, saying that anyone who has less than five seats is not in it. Then we do not have the problem that Mr Klein has just raised, that the very small groups receive much more money for their organisation, because that would be the same for everyone. So we don't do that. Let me be clear that I am not in favour of introducing an electoral threshold, because I believe that this weakens the link between voters and elected representatives. In view of what is currently happening in society, we find that politics is often too far away from the citizen. No room for a personal choice makes it difficult. I asked Mr Van der Staaij how he would react if this period were to change the position of the SGP on abortion and that would be good in future. Mr Van der Staaij would probably think that he should continue to stand up and split up for his electorate, who disagrees with this change of position. At least that's what I heard him say. Perhaps Mr Taverne could have done the same when the VVD Group, unlike the list leader, decided to give money to the Greeks. The only one in the VVD group that did not do so was Mr Taverne. He hasn't split up, but I can ask you how you should deal with that. What room does anyone have to decide other than the majority of the group, even if that goes against the previous party line? A number of suggestions have been put forward, and I wonder why they are done in this way. I have already said that there is false imagery. Mr Bishop said that you are making progress, so this would be an incentive to split off. I think that is certainly not the case and that this is an incorrect and false image. That should correct Mr Bishop, to my liking, because I think there is a lot coming at you the moment you split up, at least a lot of work. Everyone makes a choice at this point, but the suggestion that this support is the reason for splitting up seems to me totally wrong. I have already said that there seems to be confusion between divisions, which means that there will be more political parties and there will be more input here, and political fragmentation. We are not going to stop this political fragmentation with these proposals. I believe that all parties deserve support. We should not have A- and B-room members, but should be able to do the work with each other in a normal way. We're all the same in this room. I also have a practical question: what happens if someone moves from Group A to Group B? How do we deal with that? Something else is the following: if a split-off gets less money, why does that money stay with the old group? So let us be clear, because if you have fewer people to serve, you probably have less work and so you also need less money. We can give that money back to the voter. I would like to conclude by saying two things. First of all, a comment on the CIVD. Mr Veldman says that a number of five members are an objective criterion for this committee, but he is probably aware that two more people can be added to the committee on an arbitrary basis, without any criteria. It's up to the Chamber to decide. I don't think that's so objective. I don't think going back to five solves the leak either. It is certainly less likely to leak, but also leaks from that committee are of all times. That will probably not be any different unless we decide that there is only one member of that committee. If there is a leak, at least you know who that leak is; that can't be missed. I think it is not wrong in itself to reduce that number. I do not think that the chairmen of the political groups are in any way insisting on joining this CIVD. So you could go back to five, but then you should also make it more objective. As far as I'm concerned, those two extra places are not on the agenda. I would also like to know what happens if two parties finish ex aequo in size with the same number of seats. If the fifth and sixth parties have equal seats, will the number of voters be the deciding factor? Which group will then receive membership? Finally, I find it very special that someone from the Politically Reformed Party is more or less playing a political trick to make it impossible for people to work in the Chamber. I would like to hear from Mr Bishop how he thinks about this. Does he indeed think it is right that this should have been done in this way, or does he think that this should have been done much more fundamentally by means of the Election Act or by means of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr. Chairman. If I split up from the SP tomorrow, I'm gonna make a living on it. That is not only because I would no longer stick to the agreed payment scheme, which I am very proud of. I say this in the direction of Mr Houwers............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, I am not considering this for a second, because I feel completely at home with the SP and its ideas, but above all that is particularly important for this debate because I was chosen for the SP. People voted mainly for the SP and our ideas. Even though some have ticked the box of my name, most people have voted for the SP. By far the majority of Members of Parliament are in the Chamber because of votes on their lists or on the list puller. Of course, according to the Constitution, the House of Representatives has members and no political groups, but if we were to speak here with 150 individual Members, all with its own mandate, and not unite ourselves in political groups, it would not become clearer for the electorate. So that would not do our democracy any good. The SP agrees with the proposed amendment of the Rules of Procedure and the amendment of the Financial Support Scheme for political groups in the House of Representatives. It's made less attractive to split off. It restricts speaking time somewhat, as well as financial compensation, but not in an unreasonable way. The rights of individual Members of Parliament are also not affected. My only question is whether it makes any difference if a Member who splits up has obtained sufficient votes in favour. Or does that make no difference to the authors of this proposal? It is therefore still possible to split up, even after this proposal. The individual rights of members are maintained, but it is also possible to turn in your seat if you no longer feel at home in your original group for any reason. It's possible. Then it's just the voter again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u92	We have arrived at the end of the first term of the Chamber. A suspension has been requested. The President of the Working Party and the President of the Bureau will then have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u93	I am happy to give the floor to the President of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u94	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input. Before making a few comments on behalf of the Bureau, I will clarify the division of roles between myself as President of the Bureau and Mr Bishop as Chairman of the working group. I would like to comment on some of the comments that have been made in general. Mr Bishop addressed the specific and practical questions relating to the report. Separations aren't new. As long as there are political groups in the Lower House, since the end of the nineteenth century, there have been divisions. It is common practice for many parties to state that they make their seats available if they deviate from the course of the party. The fact that this does not always happen in practice is due to the fact that dissidents or dissidents often believe that this is not them, but rather the other members of the political groups who differ from the party line. That discussion has always existed and is really not new. When examining the estimate for 2016 in June 2015, a report was presented on behalf of the Bureau on how the Chamber could deal with fractional splits. A majority in the Chamber then asked the then President of the Chamber to come forward with proposals to discourage division. There was a motion from the Chamber before it, but it was stopped because the then President promised to come forward with proposals. In that motion, the Bureau is invited to come forward with proposals for the prevention of division. The Bureau initially asked the Minister for the Interior to come forward with proposals, which seemed to be the most common way forward. The Minister replied that this really is a matter for the Chamber. The Bureau then assumed that responsibility and set up a working group. Mr Bishop has been asked to chair that working party. Almost all groups are represented in the working group and it has been agreed among themselves that the dismembered members or groups could also participate in the working group. That's what they did. At least there's a report now. The Presidium has made an adjustment at one point; I will come back to that later. I would point out that not only the Chamber is concerned about the number of splits, but that this is also the subject of discussion in society. Mr Amhaouch referred to a citizen he spoke to. I have also received many e-mails from citizens who do not understand how they voted for a particular party, but that the Chamber currently consists of 17 political groups or groups. So there are many questions in society as well. We understand how and why these divisions are created, but that is not clear to everyone. So there is not only unrest, irritation and amazement in the Chamber, but also in society. The Chamber must listen to this and therefore the Bureau has set up a working group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u95	I remember Mrs Arib making a promise to protect the rights of the small groups in the run-up to the presidency. Does she think she has succeeded in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u96	I would like to comment on this because Mr Kuzu and Mr Klein are talking about the rights of minorities. The discussion is not about minority rights. The debate is about how we deal with Members of Parliament who have been elected MPs but who have left the group in the meantime. When we talk about minorities, we are talking about the small groups who have been given a mandate directly from the electorate and who have so directly entered the Chamber. Perhaps that also applies to Mr Kuzu after the elections, but that is not the point. One of these minorities is, for example, the Party for Animals. It represents a certain group of voters. It also has a mandate from the electorate. Her members were directly elected. The same applies to the SGP and other groups. However, that is not the issue at the moment. What I said then, I still say: I am guarding the rights of minorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u97	During the election of the presidency, Mrs Arib made no distinction between the Animal Party and our group. At that time, I think, every voice was counted, but now it is all of a sudden about that. I would therefore like to refer to the statement made by Mrs Arib during her contribution to trade union K in the election of the President of the Chamber. Has she succeeded in her intention to safeguard the rights of small groups and we operate in the House of Representatives as a small group or not? As far as I am concerned, she has failed to do so, but I would like to hear the reaction of our President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u98	The President of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u99	I am sure that we have succeeded. I can perhaps go straight to the point made by Mr Kuzu and, above all, by Mr Klein, namely that there is a difference in the constitutional rights of Members of Parliament. The proposal deals with two things: the arrangements contained in the Rules of Procedure and the financial support to political groups. These matters do not affect the constitutional rights of individual Members of Parliament. They remain untouched. Those individual rights are the right to ask questions, the right to request information, to submit amendments and to submit legislative proposals. Support will be provided for this. That has always been the case and will be the case in the future. Mr Kuzu has made use of this so far. That remains untouched. After all, we have a Bureau of Legislation and the official organisation makes no distinction between a one-man group and a group of 30 Members of Parliament. It doesn't matter. Those rights are guaranteed and that is not affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u100	There may have been a misunderstanding, Mr President, but I did not say in my speech that the Bureau's proposal would undermine the formal rights of a Member of Parliament. Constitutional rights remain intact. I am pleased that the President of the Presidium endorses that. Of course, official support also remains the same for everyone. As is well known, there is also official support for a Member of Parliament in, for example, drafting an amendment or an initiative legislative proposal. However, this is only about the technical impact. To give a good interpretation of the content, a Member of Parliament will always work with the staff he has. In a material sense, I say to the President, you are attacking the rights because in the future you cannot do the things you should do, namely make an initiative proposal or draft an amendment or a motion. That sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u101	I understand it's confusing, but we're still talking through the chairman, even though there are now two. I am happy to give the floor to the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u102	I don't share that opinion. The practice is as follows. If a Member of Parliament, whether he is a member of a political group or a Member of Parliament who has separated himself from a political group, wants to table an amendment, that is possible. The Member of Parliament may indicate the subject on which he wishes to table an amendment. The legislative office is at the service of everyone, including Mr Klein. That is the case now, and it will be. So I do not share Mr Klein's view and nothing is going to change that. The practical questions on the content of the report will be addressed by Mr Bishop shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u103	Briefly, it is not about me at all or what I would or would not do. It doesn't affect me at all, because it's about the next period. The main question is how you treat MPs. I want to make that point very clear. You say that good support is given by the officials and the Registry. I appreciate that, too. But if that support is there, why would we give MPs official support at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u104	This is a wish of a majority of the Chamber. I don't want to repeat myself, but this has been going on for a long time. The reason was that we wanted to look at how we deal with division, because it has all kinds of consequences for our functioning as a parliament and because both in the Chamber and in society there is a feeling that it is not clear for ordinary citizens. You can vote for 11 parties and all of a sudden it's 17. I don't want to repeat myself, but that's the reason. You can ask why we want to change it, but that question can be asked about more subjects that we deal with in the Chamber. If there is a problem the Chamber is experiencing or is concerned about, it will do something about it. That is the case here. I understand that this is not good for everyone, but it is important that we find a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u105	The President-in-Office can't keep this up, can he? It indicates that the constitutional rights of a Member of Parliament are not undermined, but we do receive less support, less budget for the administration and less speaking time. That is what the quality of the Chamber work of dismembered Members of Parliament suffers, and that then affects the constitutional tasks of a Member of Parliament. The President-in-Office of the Council can't just ignore that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u106	Anything related to individual rights of Members of Parliament remains in place. Nothing's gonna change that. There is only a change in the Rules of Procedure which Mr Bisschop will explain to you on a number of practical points in the Rules of Procedure, which need to be changed. For the financial support of political groups, it does not have to pay to split up; that is the case now. I understand you're having trouble with that, but it's a problem. That's where we need to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u107	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u108	Mr Kuzu, I had not yet given you the floor. The President of the Chamber was still speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u109	I'd like to say something. Mr Kuzu uses great words. He compares this parliament with parliaments in a dictatorship, I understand. He calls anyone who fights a disagreement in the group and doesn't split up a yes-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. I'm far from it. I certainly don't recognize myself in that. Here you can say anything you want. I know parliaments where parliamentarians are silenced. I know parliaments where parliamentarians are tortured. I would like to hear what Mr Kuzu thinks about that. This kind of accusations, this kind of accusations I'm throwing far from my point of view. I do not think it is right for all those Members of Parliament who stand up for their views within their political groups. They are now being put up as if they accept everything. Mr Kuzu himself was in the PvdA group and he was in the PvdA group in Rotterdam for years. He knows very well what's going on internally. That doesn't just apply to the PvdA. I know from all Members of Parliament that they stand up for their positions within their political groups. Ultimately, you have to come to a common solution or a common position. Not everyone can handle that. We can see that now. The result is today's debate. But I consider Mr Kuzu to be contempt for our parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u110	I was assuming that we were having a debate on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u111	You started it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u112	Mr. Chairman. I assume I have the floor, not the President of the Chamber. She should know like no other that when I have the floor, she should not talk through it. Anyway... We therefore have a debate on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mr Öztürk, would you like to refrain from commenting? Mr Kuzu has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u114	We are having a debate on the Rules of Procedure. I would like to discuss the situation in other parliaments with the President-in-Office of the Council. What is at issue here is that I have asked a question about the fact that the provisions for Members of Parliament are being distorted in such a way that they no longer have the opportunity, as before, to carry out their work properly when they are given less official support and speaking time. The President-in-Office of the Council puts that aside as practical solutions. Does this not undermine the quality of support that a Member of Parliament should receive? That is the specific question I am asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u115	I remain of the opinion that the individual rights of Members of Parliament remain valid. I stand up for that when it is tormented. I also remain of the opinion that we in the Chamber, as well as in society, have the problem that there are too many divisions and that we must respond to them. That is Mr Bishop's report. I would like to return to the first point. I did not bring up other parliaments, but that was Mr Kuzu. He made a comparison with dictatorial parliaments. I'm just gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u116	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u117	While I am dealing with Mr Kuzu, he has also made a comment on the speaking time in connection with Mr Amhaouch's comment on budgets. Mr Amhaouch mentioned the example of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. Of this, Mr Kuzu said in the event of interruption: we only have ten minutes. That is not the case. The speaking time for the budgets is fixed every year. A dismembered MP gets 30 minutes. In proportion, that is a very generous speaking time. For example, a group of 40 Members has 400 minutes for all budget debates. I would like to outline the balance sheet and the perspective that Mr Van der Staaij also mentioned. Mr Kuzu also said that the report had not been submitted to the Council of State. This discussion has already taken place in the course of the review of the forecast for 2017. Mr Öztürk then tabled a motion asking the government to submit the report to the Council of State. That motion has been rejected. However, it is also important to mention that the Council of State has previously indicated that this is an internal matter and that the Council of State does not give an opinion on its own arrangements. That is my response to Mr Kuzu's comments. The gender issue has also been raised. I have experienced Mrs Verdonk as a Member of Parliament in my term of office. The difference is that Mrs Verdonk had 620.550 votes, while the present splitters have not yet reached the electoral threshold. To reach the electoral threshold, we need 65,000 votes. Maybe I didn't figure it out properly, but I don't think any of those who split up got 65,000 votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u118	Perhaps Mr Klein has a different figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u119	It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u120	I'd like to give him the opportunity to make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u121	This is an interesting observation by Mrs Arib. Does this mean that someone who is on a list and has reached the electoral threshold could, in Mrs Arib's view, form an independent group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u122	That question has already been asked, but it will be answered by Mr Bishop. Otherwise, I'll come back to it in second term. The report is not about that, but it is a real question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u123	The President of the Bureau herself cites Mrs Verdonk as an example because she had some 600,000 votes in favour. Mrs Arib says that this would be a reason for her to be here on her own behalf. This means that it can give the following answer in this respect: a person who can have a seat in his own right can be a political group. But then the proposal doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u124	I think it is good that Mr Klein fills out what I would say or what I would say. I didn't say this. I'm talking about why so far almost no women have split up. There are also other sounds here about why men in particular often split off, but I wouldn't like to share them with you right now. But the fact that Mrs Verdonk had more than half a million of the votes is of a different order. I'm not saying that this is a legitimate reason to split you off. It's a small remark in the margin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u125	I would like to mention Mrs Gonny van Oudenallen in the context of the women's split-ups. Let's not forget her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u126	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mr Bishop may go into this later, but doesn't the President-in-Office find it interesting, also in view of what she said about Mrs Verdonk, that the number of votes you have when you are on an existing list doesn't automatically mean that you would get that mandate if you continued on your own? This also turned out to be the case with the list of Prouds on the Netherlands, who eventually did not get enough votes to get in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u128	I couldn't agree more. I can be very brief about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u129	You will continue your speech, Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u130	I think these were the most important comments towards the Presidium. I have one comment to make. Of course, there are different views about split-ups and so on, but the Chamber, the parliamentary work, is more than just taking part in a debate once in a while. As President, I see that large groups often do a lot of work in the preparation of legislative proposals, which we deal with almost weekly here in the Chamber, when split-ups sometimes do not get to do so or are not able to do so. Parliamentary work is more than just taking part in certain debates, which, of course, is a good right for everyone. It is also about participating in legal proceedings. If a citizen would go to a judge because he or she wants to get his or her right, the judge would look not only at the law, but also at the Acts of the Chamber. I would like to say here that this is also very important in our work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u131	I share the view of the President of the Chamber that the work of a Member of Parliament is more difficult than taking part in debates here, but do I agree that this proposal makes the other work much more difficult or almost impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u132	I do not share that view, Mr President. It also has to do with priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u133	I understand from the President of the Chamber that she thinks that with a secretary who can pick up the phone, I can do my job as a Member of Parliament and at the same time participate in the debate. She doesn't really mean that, does she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u134	I don't know how you distribute your work. I don't want to judge that either. I know, however, that it is important to take part in legislation, and that not everyone participates in it. So much for my contribution. I have a procedural comment for the second time. When we are in box K, it almost automatically evokes some kind of contradiction with the Members of Parliament. If motions or amendments are tabled, it is really the intention of the Chamber itself to deal with them. So it is not up to the Bureau to say: we accept this amendment, or we advise against it. It's really a matter of the Chamber. It takes some getting used to, but it really is. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop... sorry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u135	I give the floor to Mr Bishop, because that is what I am discussing today, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u136	It advocates the role of the President of the Chamber. It takes some getting used to being in trade-K; I can imagine anything. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Members for their contributions and contributions. Thank you also for the questions that have been asked in this connection. I'll go into that. Thanks in particular for the very broad support to which we can conclude from these contributions. It is a bit of an ungrateful task to act as a member or as chairman of a working group like this, the group formation working group in the Lower House. I am not saying that this would be because of the composition of the working group. On the contrary, that makes it a bit bearable and attractive to participate. I say that because of the assignment: to advise on the position and possibilities of division within the Chamber. Then why is that a bit of an ungrateful task? Well, you know two things in advance. First of all, you know you're gonna disappoint some of your colleagues, one way or another. That is not something that is dear to most of us and what the goal is. Secondly, you also know that as a working group you will be blamed, whatever the outcome of the working group will be. Even if you do not deliver a result, you can still expect blame, however carefully the process of reaching an opinion is set up. You know that in advance. Nevertheless, I am of the opinion that it is very good that there has been a working group that has thought about the question of division. It is an issue that raises the necessary questions and emotions in society, but also in politics. I would like to thank the members of the working group for their open and constructive dialogue. These are the colleagues Taverne, Fokke, Van Raak, Rog, Martin Bosma, Koşer Kaya, Krol and Klein and I, as chairman. I am very pleased with the way in which the working group was able to work. Even if we had solid discussions, and we did not shy away from them, the attitude remained open and constructive, focused on the argumentation. This has ultimately led to a result, to a report. I would also like to include in this thank you the excellent support of the Registry and the official service. It has once again been confirmed how important these are for the Chamber to reach a good decision. Before I go into the answer, I would like to look at the principles chosen by the working group. It would be a very bad thing if we came to preferences from emotions or irritations. Certainly in this dossier, this could lead to very wrong steps and proposals. That is why the working group has strictly opted for the constitutional starting point. I would like to mention the three points that have been formulated, but which are not directly expressed in the report, although they can be found in them. I hope they will also be recognizable as a common thread. First of all, every Member of Parliament has a free and personal mandate and the rights attached thereto, which are enshrined in the Constitution, is not affected. This means, therefore, that dismembered Members of Parliament have unabated access to debates, consultations and committees. There are also examples of parliamentary democracies where this is really different, sometimes in combination with a threshold for voting. Motions and amendments are not limited. Asking questions is not limited, except in Question Time, but I will come back to that. In terms of number of interruptions, a Member of Parliament who is divided is treated no differently than other Members of Parliament, as we have seen in this debate. That is the first point. A second principle is that it is crucial for the proper functioning of Dutch parliamentary practice that groups be formed on the basis of the election results. That is why we are encouraged to form a group. This is done by facilitating the formation of political groups in an appropriate way in terms of housing, speaking time, finance and so on. This is in addition to the facilities that the parliamentary apparatus as a whole has to offer. The third principle is that the balance of the Dutch parliamentary system between the free, personal mandate on the one hand and the position of political groups on the other should not be fundamentally affected. The Group's proposals should therefore be in line with the existing constitutional frameworks. These have been the three principles which we, as a working party, have always had in mind and which we have discussed. Sometimes these discussions were solid, especially about the impact. Those discussions were finally reflected in the report that we issued in June 2016 and that was offered to the Bureau, under the title Grouping in the House of Representatives. As such, it is part of the file before it. The Bureau adopted the recommendations contained in the report, with one amendment. From his responsibility as a board of the entire House of Representatives, including the dismembered members, the groups, as they will be called, the Bureau proposes to the Chamber, to continue to provide at least a minimum secretarial support for the separated Members of Parliament. If I consider that proposal from the Presidium and consider the discussions in the working group in mind, this decision may, quite frankly, strengthen the balance between the free personal mandate and the importance of a well-functioning group. I think that the Bureau deserves to be congratulated on the fact that, from its own responsibility, it has taken a slightly different decision on this point and has put forward a slightly different proposal compared to the very tight proposal in the working group's report, which has focused on the separation between constitutional law and its facilitational effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u137	At the time, I was outnumbered in the working group. In itself, I found the logic of doing nothing consistent from that reasoning. That's why the report says the same thing. I have taken a minority view on this, but I think it is very consistent: either you do something or you do nothing. Now Mr Bishop says that the best thing about the Presidium was that it had some sort of minimum variant in it, by including the secretarial support in scale 6. My question to Mr Bishop is: if that is the minimum support for Members of Parliament, would it not be better for every Member of Parliament to receive that support? After all, that is the minimum support a Member of Parliament needs in order to function properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u138	If I understand the question correctly, I would reply that this is also used as a key as a unit of account for the granting of allowances for the functioning of political groups. Each group will then be free to implement this in its own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u139	I have to correct the chairman of the working group, because the current basis for the fees is that there is at least one employee on a scale of 9 and one on a scale of 10. So in fact, you should say: instead of the current foundations where employees are on scale 9 and scale 10, I say that out of my head, they should be on scale 6. It's okay to put everyone on scale six, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u140	As a working party, we have not considered the basis for calculating group allowances. We have accepted that it consists of one payment at the level of scale 6 and one payment at the level of scale 10 and that that is the unit of account. That remuneration is indeed granted not to individual Members of Parliament but to a political group, where the number of members of a political group serves as a multiplier. I come to the answer of a number of questions. Mr Klein rightly raises the question of whether such a decision as is taken here in the Chamber will not have a precedent for Provincial States and Municipal Councils. Unfortunately, there are also splits. That question was rightly asked. I think that's gonna happen. That is why it is so important that, as far as the working group is concerned, the constitutional frameworks have been set very carefully. The fundamental constitutional rights of Members of Parliament, as enshrined in the Constitution, are not affected. What can also happen is facilitation. That is exactly what the Bureau is proposing, and that is in line with the proposal of the working group. Mr Klein's proposal on financing a fixed part per Member of Parliament and an additional part if a Member of Parliament is a member of a political group is not the proposal of either the working party or the Bureau. I propose that Mr Klein submit that proposal to the Chamber. In line with what the President-in-Office has just said, it is up to the Chamber to say yes or no to that. I come to the amendment to item No. 6 on the Intelligence and Security Services Commission. Mr Van der Staaij raised this first. Neither the Working Party nor the Bureau took a decision on that amendment. It is before the Chamber and it is up to the Chamber to take a position on it. I would like to thank Mr Veldman for his warm support. Mr Marcouch, speaking on behalf of the Christian Union, asked whether an evaluation of the proposed regime was foreseen. Excuse me, Mr. Amhaouch asked. No, that is not included in the proposal. I would say that there is no major objection to it. But if there is again discontent about the way it works, it is to be expected that the need to look at it again will arise. It'll take a couple of years. Whether that's four or eight years, it's hard to determine. If this arrangement is to work satisfactorily, then an evaluation in advance does not make much sense. That is why it is not included in the proposal. Mr Kuzu congratulated me on chairing a committee on the subject. I understand his disappointed reaction. I hope that I have made it sufficiently clear that it is absolutely not a question of undermining the constitutional position of Members of Parliament. On the contrary, care has been taken to ensure that it is not affected. But indeed, in facilitation, the necessary changes have been made. At least, this is what is being proposed. I am sorry that he describes the working party as a committee on football. I think that is not so much because the working party is not a committee as it is because of the prefix. It is his right to experience it this way, but I am convinced that it does not do justice to the extremely careful way in which it is communicated. Mr Kuzu's contribution through Mr Klein has also been fully welcomed. Let me give you an example. As a working party in the first meeting, we agreed that we should decide by majority vote what the opinion would be. However, we gave everyone who could not agree with the majority position the right to request a note and to take a minority position on a particular point. This has been deliberately chosen to be completely open and transparent about how others sometimes think about it. I think that is a signal that we want to deal with it carefully. I would like to thank Mrs Maij for the warm support she has expressed. I would also like to thank Mr Van Meenen. I had made another note of the remark that only men split off. I am therefore shocked, but fortunately the President has handled this adequately. I don't have to go into that anymore. I would also like to thank Mr Beertema for his warm support. Mr Houwers had asked a number of questions. He argued that there was a violation of the personal mandate. I hope I have made it clear that this is by no means the case. Indeed, the splitters are improving. Mr Houwers asked for this too. His argument is that that is not the case. Following on from what Mr Van der Staaij said in the first instance, I think that the split-ups have a certain advantage over members of Parliament who remain within a group. We have not, moreover, had a preliminary discussion on this. The split-offs will receive a specific part of the budget that is actually linked to the group personally. They can use it to arrange their secretarial support. They'll get the group chairman's allowance, although I'll admit it won't make you rich. However, especially in terms of speaking time and facilitation, these Members of Parliament have a pre-relation to other Members of Parliament. It's being skimmed now. That's what I meant to say. They also asked about the remaining budget that does not go with the dismembered MP. That remains with the group from which the Member of Parliament departs. Is that right? As a working group, we have made no proposals for this. I would say that Mr Houwers is free to submit a motion or amendment to the Chamber so that the Chamber can give its opinion. We wanted to keep it simple and clear. Things like this make things a little more complicated. This has clearly not been a setup. The task of the working group was not at all to achieve another austerity objective. A fascinating question was asked. I appreciate that. As a SGP, I would play a political trick, because something that should be regulated by the Constitution is now regulated by the Rules of Procedure. I hope that I have already made it clear in my earlier speech that this is not a violation of the constitutional rights of Members of Parliament. They shall remain in force without prejudice. Only the development and facilitation are subject to some further restrictions. I therefore think it is absolutely right that this should be taken up in the Rules of Procedure by examining this proposal. I would also like to thank Mr Van Nispen for his warm support. I wrote one question down from him. Does it make any difference whether someone with preferred votes has been chosen? Not in our proposal, because in our approach, voting for preference has an impact on the list order, but not on the connection to that list as such. In the event of interruption, the example has already been given of someone who had been elected in the past with hundreds of thousands of votes in favour, but then, at the time when an independent electoral mandate was requested, there was nothing left of it. It would also be an extremely complicated construction if you wanted to arrange all this in advance. It is therefore more careful to follow this constitutional line. A further question from Mr Houwers has remained. Excuse me. That question was about a dismembered MP moving to another group. The proposal does deal with mergers. In the case of a merger of existing parties, there will be a new group, in the case of two groups. If someone who has split up joins another group, that does not mean that the budget goes with that new group. Then it's still a split-off. However, it is a bit of an unwritten rule that Members of Parliament go on their own or go along with other dismembered members and, in principle, do not join another group during the parliamentary period. A division that merges therefore has no financial consequences and continues to be treated as a division. In my view, these were the questions I was asked. I hope I've been able to serve all of them adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u141	Thank you. Mr Kuzu has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u142	Mr Bishop tried to point out that the constitutional rights of individual dismembered MPs were not affected. In practice, of course, that is the case. It may not be legal and constitutional, but I do not need to explain to Mr Bishop that, by facilitating, there is indeed an undermining of the constitutional rights of individual Members of Parliament. My question to Mr Bishop is whether he is sticking to the letter of the law or whether he is going to say something about the adverse effect on dismembered Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u143	We can talk about it long and wide, but anyone who reads this proposal correctly from the Presidium sees that there is a great deal of concern that the constitutional position of Members of Parliament would be affected. That's the last thing that can happen. That personal mandate stands. But it is very desirable for the workability and the stimulation of fractional formation that groups should be formed and that there should be as few divisions as possible. I'm just saying, like, there's a lot of experience here. Indeed, the facilitation of dismembered MPs is changing something. It doesn't get any easier for those dismembered MPs. But let's face it, I absolutely do not want to talk about first and second-class chamber members, but there is a difference between a MP who has received a direct electoral mandate through the party within the group, and a MP who has entered the Chamber through that party, but does not have a direct electoral mandate, because that still has to be proved whether that can be achieved. The MP is free to do so. This also justifies the way in which the facilitation of Members of Parliament is organised in political groups or outside political groups and the distinction between a group and a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u144	The chairman of the working group states in his own words that there is indeed A-Room members and B-Room members. So, according to him, that insight also exists. In his opinion, that is a justification, but a justification according to whom? A justification according to the members of the working group? A justification according to the people in that working group? In any case, I count three who have experienced the negative consequences of less facilitation and less budget due to split-off. I find it very sad, very sad, that the working party does not consider being able to carry out its work by individual Members of Parliament, that it does not defend the rights of minorities, that it ignores them, that the work of individual Members of Parliament, divided from a group, is made impossible or at least more difficult. This is, let's face it, one big play, isn't it? An investigation is requested and a working group is set up, which then comes up with the outcome. However, this outcome has been known for a year and a half. Isn't that right, Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u145	The answer to that last question is no. There has been a very open discussion in the working group. If I cannot convince Mr Kuzu of that, I am sorry. At least I did my best. The difference in approach is inherent in separation and the way in which you choose position in this Chamber. We simply need to recognise that. This report does justice to that. However you turn your back on it, the Bureau's proposal is extremely carefully guarded against violating the constitutional rights of separate Members of Parliament. If Mr Kuzu wishes to call them'minorities', then that may be so, but these rights also apply to those minorities. In short, I think it is a careful proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u146	This brings us to the end of the answer given by the chairman of the working group. I note that a number of Members of Parliament need a second term. We shall begin with Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u147	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the President of the Chamber and the chairman of the working group for their response. Mr Bishop began by saying that the proposal might be a disappointment for some. A disappointment would mean there would be emotion about what's going on here. Let us be very clear: as far as I am concerned, there is no disappointment. After all, we are not talking about what we currently have in this Chamber, but about the situation after 22 March 2017, in the next period of the Chamber. Then all the groups will be elected again and there will be a political debate over the period. Then it is important that there is clarity in advance and that the individual rights of a Member of Parliament are defended. In the proposal now before us, Members of Parliament remain able to operate independently, even in the following period. Constitutional rights simply stand; everyone is a member of the Lower House and will remain a member of this Chamber unless he himself submits a letter of resignation to the President of the Lower House. Separating will be possible in the future if there is a discussion within political groups that creates an unworkable relationship. Then it is not just about division, but also about division, as was the case when I was chairman of the Group of 50PLUS and that group was split into two parts. That situation is no different today. There is therefore no problem to be solved and no burden to be placed on voting. That is also important, because voting without burden gives the right checks-and-balances in this parliamentary democracy. It is precisely the sanction that is intended to be used so that a Member of Parliament can say that he is going to vote differently and that the consequence might be that he is no longer a member of the group concerned. In response to other reactions, this also encourages the political groups to come out internally with each other. I remember from the previous period the discussions in the CDA group with Mrs Ferrier and Mr Koppejan. All sorts of things were done to ensure that they remained in the group. That is also right and logical, and we should keep it that way, but it was because they eventually had a sanction: if it is completely wrong, you threaten to continue as a Member of Parliament on your own. Next, it's about actually being able to function as a Member of Parliament. This is not about taking part in debates or being able to put oral questions in Question Time. It is about how you can actually give substance to your work by working on motions, amendments and own-initiative proposals. As a Member of Parliament, you don't just do that in an afternoon; you do that in collaboration with society, with your voters, with a lot of support and especially with the employees. In my case, I could not have submitted three legislative proposals and an own-initiative paper without having good official support from my group. You should be able to keep doing that. You should be able to keep having that discussion. We've been asked about the diversity and all that fragmentation. The Chamber is a mirror of society. Society is fragmented and has diversity. That's okay. That's just a fact. That's what you see in municipal elections. There are municipal councils where there are ten or fifteen political groups at the moment. That's okay at all. This will also be the case in the next period. At the start of this journey there were 11 groups. That will be no different in the next period. That's okay. That's just the way society is. So we can think much better about what is going on with society, where there is no connection, but where diversity and differences are going to arise. That is then at some point to be considered as a problem, if that were a problem. In my view, this is certainly not a problem from a liberal perspective. Pluriformity in the Chamber, in society and, for example, in public broadcasting is only positive. We must appreciate this pluralism, because it also allows us to show the diversity of society in the parliament. I have not yet received a response to my amendment. If a fraction starts to share, the Presidium will burn its fingers to the question of what the real fraction is. I'd like that out. That sounds like a good repair to me. Mrs Arib replied that there were MPs who signed a declaration when they were candidates for a political party. For example, this declaration is addressed by the Labour Party in the context of the code of honour. I'll file the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several political parties have for a long time had their candidates for the Lower Parliamentary Elections sign "internal statements" in which these candidates have to give up their seats when they are removed from the relevant political group;]] [[Observed that more and more political parties are using such statements;]] [[noting that such declarations are not legally enforceable;]] [[noting that the Minister for the Interior recently stated in his reply to questions on this subject that such statements are contrary to the Constitution and the Election Act, that "room members cannot be forced to give up their seats" and "that seats will be given to individual candidates and not to candidate political groups";]] [[Considering that such a declaration constitutes a form of blackmail to put pressure on people even before the elections by allowing them to sign a potentially intimidating but, above all, worthless document on penalty of non-candidate;]] [[Whereas it is the duty of the Minister of the Interior to ensure and monitor the purity of our electoral process, so that everyone is always and everywhere clear about how the passive right to vote, a fundamental democratic right, works;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the H9 assent form a specific reference to the candidates' constitutional rights and duties as an independent free representative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34567-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u148	Mr. Chairman. This is gonna work differently. At such a time, the motion will be held and the Minister will be asked for a response. This can be noted here and the Court can then give a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u149	We are having a debate here with the Bureau and a working party of the Chamber. The government is not present. You can file the motion in another place. I think it's up to the Chamber to make a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u150	I would ask you to examine the procedure. In previous cases, we have had a discussion with the Presidium...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u151	The procedures are being examined, but I would like to make this point because the government is not here. He'd be a weird guy. Mr Van Meenen has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u152	I don't need advice to pass judgment. I'm curious, and that curiosity wins now. Mr Klein has already announced that he will participate in the elections with a new party. I wonder how he will come up with a list, also in the light of this kind of statement asking you to make your seat available if you distance yourself from your party. I assume that Mr Klein is coming up with a programme. That's gonna be a whole different program from the one he came into the Chamber with, because that was a story about pathetic old people like me. In the meantime, it has become a liberal party. How would Mr Klein feel if he were to come into the Chamber with a number of seats on a free-minded programme, so I call it now and one of the Members says: I am leaving and I am starting a party for the unbound animals? What effect does Mr Klein expect of this on both his party and the electorate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u153	Thank you for that question. It is perfectly logical that the programme on which I was elected is a broad programme and not a one-issue party programme. This programme has been put forward here over the past few years, but in practice it appears that before profiling it was about the pathetic elderly person Mr Van Meenen is talking about. I could not agree with that and that is why I am still active in this Chamber on the basis of that broad programme. The program released by the Free Party is, of course, a broad programme that pays attention to young and old. We will work very hard on this in the coming period. I would also point out that many parties in this Chamber have no statements. I don't know about D66, but I happen to know about the VVD; she doesn't have any explanations. Because it's a lousy document, you shouldn't. This means that the board of the Free Party has decided that no forms will be submitted to candidates. Every candidate, of course, has that freedom. I have already said in the first term that if we are going to be six Members of Parliament, that would be a good result, and one of them would say that he does not agree, he has that freedom. That is the consequence, and that is the generosity you need to be able to function here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u154	My question is what changes Mr Klein's motion for a resolution to that freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u155	What changes is that the declaration of consent H9.... a declaration that may be signed...... is nonsense and worthless. This means that every candidate takes note of this and takes it into account. He does not need to feel bound by the declaration of consent under the Election Act and a worthless document.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u156	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the President of the Presidium and the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party for their reply. I would also like to thank all the other members of the Bureau and of the working group for the work they have done on achieving this, in my view, balanced arrangement. I found the answer convincing. If it gets a majority of Parliament, which it looks like, the proposal will enter into force in a few months' time. This will be after the elections on 15 March. We look forward to the fact that this necessary regulation on split groups will never have to be applied in practice. That is what we are talking about. We must have a proper arrangement in case it occurs, but we must also hope that there will be no division. There have been parliamentary sessions in which no Member of Parliament has separated. It's still possible. We look forward to this being the case in the coming period as well. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the Zijlstra and others amendment. Whatever my name is under. This amendment concerns the composition of the Commission for the Intelligence and Security Services. The president of the Bureau and the chairman of the working group have already indicated that they were not so much about it as about it. The members of the committee have used this amendment to the Rules of Procedure to table this amendment, so that this point can also be discussed. I will answer a question from Mr Houwers which has not yet been answered. He asked what it would be like if fractions were the same size. The explanatory statement to the amendment states that the number of Members is first and foremost looked at at the highest number of votes cast on a party at the same size. The group with the most votes is considered to be the largest. A provision has therefore been made for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u157	Mr Klein, I would like to ask a brief question, but let me make no mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u158	I have a question about the amendment to which Mr Van der Staaij is co-author. The answer to Mr Houwers' question is clear. That is also stated in the explanatory statement. But what happens if a fraction gets smaller? The PVV group was first the largest opposition group. However, over time, the SP has become the largest opposition group. Can such a group fall from the committee secretly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u159	A provision has not been made for all possible as-dan situations. As it is now formulated, the key moment is the beginning of a period. We're assuming the size that fractions have. The possibility of appointing two other members gives the necessary flexibility to deal with the situation in a responsible manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u160	I would ask the co-author to take a closer look at the amendment. There's no time limit. It has not been indicated that the moment of the election is also the moment of determining the group sizes. It simply says that the first five largest political groups will be members. During the period the group sizes could change and then there could also be changes in the committee secretly. Can Mr Van der Staaij take a look at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u161	If that is the reason to amend the amendment, we shall do so. So far, we have assumed that there is no need to formulate a response to all possible situations as a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u162	The next speaker will be Mr Kuzu. I see no one feels short-handed, so I'm doing just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u163	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a positive one. I would like to congratulate the President of the Chamber and the chairman of the working group on the immaculate performance of this play. The rights of dismembered MPs are simply tormented. It's obvious. A lot of words are used for this, but the facilitation of dismembered MPs will come under pressure which will prevent them from carrying out their work properly, unlike previously. The picture is that dismembered MPs have a lot of rights and can make full use of opportunities, but I would like to challenge the committee to look at how a member of parliament of a small group or of a divided group is trying to carry out his work. That's not cat piss. This is hard work compared to the work of a member of parliament of a fraction of 38 or 40 men. I would like to draw the attention of Members of Parliament and the political parties involved to the fact that every vote in our democracy counts, including in the House of Representatives. Small groups are often approached if a voting ratio is 74-74. I will tell you that we will not forget the proceedings surrounding the Rules of Procedure when we are again asked to support a motion for which the support is tight. My final point concerns the Committee on Intelligence and Security. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. If we want to avoid leaking, we might as well abolish the whole committee. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Bureau to ensure that the Intelligence and Security Services Commission is abolished,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34567-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u164	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief, because the voting relationships are already clear. Despite this, I need to thank the committee, the people who have done the work in this area, the members of the Bureau, for their commitment, even though it does not agree with what has emerged from this. However, it seems appropriate to me to thank people who are doing work for democracy, in their view, for the good work they have done. I have already made a comment on one point. Mr Bishop has made a challenging remark which I would like to respond to. He said I was free to table a motion, and I would like to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fewer Members of Parliament are members of the original political group;]] [[noting that this would lead to a reduction in work for this group;]] [[states that those groups return the exonerated part of the outgoing MP to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34567-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u165	I hope that this will at least add a positive element to this discussion which will benefit the electorate, because I believe that the voter will benefit little from the rest of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u166	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Finally, I would like to give the floor to the President of the Presidium for an answer or a second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u167	Mr. Chairman. I just want to thank everyone for their second term input. Mr Kuzu complimented me on a play. If there's anything I can't do, it's acting. I would therefore like to thank Mr Kuzu for that compliment. I would also like to thank Mr Bishop, in particular, on behalf of the entire Chamber. I am very grateful to him for the work he has done. He is a member of a small group, but it is a group that has constitutional genes and is always willing to stand in front of the Chamber as an institution and to do work for it. I would like to thank him very much for that. It is up to the Chamber itself to decide on the motions submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u168	It makes sense for the Chamber itself to decide how it deals with the motions. It is a proposal from the Bureau to amend the Rules of Procedure. The Bureau also explained why this would be necessary. That is also what it stated in the paper on the report. I have tabled an amendment on Article I, part C, part 2 (34567, no. 8). What does the Bureau think of that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u169	I have made it clear that the Bureau will not judge the motions or amendments that have been tabled. That's really up to the Chamber. If your amendment is adopted, the Bureau will certainly respond to it and try to implement it if possible. I do not now give an opinion on the motions and amendments tabled by the various groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u170	We are talking about legislation here. It is a legislative process. That is why speaking time is different. I am not talking about motions, which are about whether or not you are going to implement them, but about an amendment. My amendment is an amendment to the present proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure proposed by the Bureau. Doesn't it make sense for the Presidium to give its verdict? Does the amendment make sense or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u171	Your question is clear. The President of the Bureau shall address her own reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u172	I am not going to judge the amendment tabled. If the amendment is adopted by the Chamber, the Bureau will respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u173	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u174	No, Mr Klein, I think the answer is very clear in the second term. The president of the Bureau doesn't want to judge it. She thinks that's up to us as MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u175	I have a point of order. It's not about judgment or what we mean. If the Chamber accepts the amendment, the Rules of Procedure shall be amended accordingly. Then it's changed. It is not a question of whether or not the amendment is being assessed and it is not a question of looking at what we are doing with it; it is legislation. This means that the Rules of Procedure are simply amended. If the amendment is adopted, the Rules of Procedure will be amended and it will be ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u176	The President of the Bureau has made it very clear that it is up to the Chamber to judge your amendment. If the Chamber decides to accept your amendment, it will simply be implemented. I think that was her answer. I'm just gonna look at her for confirmation and see that she nods. That's how it's supposed to be in this house. That's a democracy. I suggest we wait for the votes. I almost forgot about him, but I would like to give Mr Bishop, chairman of the working group, the opportunity to make his comments in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u177	Mr. Chairman. Yeah, this is a duo production. Of course, we have to keep it up. I have a few comments to make. I shall start with the last point, the Klein amendment to item No. 8. As the President of the Bureau said, it is indeed up to the Chamber to decide. What I can add from my observation as a member of the working group is that this amendment is contrary to what the Bureau's proposal aims to do. I would like to leave it at that, because we are not advising on this. Another point was Mr Kuzu's repetition of the fact that it is a play and that the rights of the separated Members of Parliament are being undermined and that their constitutional position is therefore at stake. I continue to argue against this strongly to prevent this from becoming a kind of frame in which the Kuzu/Öztürk group lingers. This is not the case. The Constitution does not regulate facilitation at all. The Constitution only regulates the rights of Members of Parliament and they have remained absolutely untouched. This has been carefully monitored, both by the working group in its report and by the Bureau in its proposal. It is therefore pertinently incorrect to state that the rights of the separated Members of Parliament are being undermined. Of course, it is annoying that support is being affected, but that is not a violation of constitutional rights. I think it would be a good thing if this were to be said. It is a pity that Mr Kuzu ends with a threat. He said that we will not forget the course of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure if there is once again a need for support for a motion. Oh, guys, but that's not how we handle responsible decision-making, is it? That doesn't include these kinds of threats, does it? Come on! Surely we have a functioning democratic system, which we all embrace and, hopefully, we all help to carry. I regret that the debate is closed with this dissonant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u178	This brings us to the end of the second term. I see Mr. Klein is at the interrupting microphone. I just closed the debate. Come on, just a little bit longer. But very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u179	I had hoped that the chairman of the working group would comment on my question on the possibility of private funding for MPs who will operate independently in the future without support. Members of parliament can have sponsors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u180	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u181	Can we still do that and should we not put a stop to it? Or does the working group say that something more needs to be done so that MPs do not all have external financiers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u182	I remember this remark from the first term and did not hear a question in it. That's why I didn't respond to that either. That's a room a Member of Parliament has. This proposal will not change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u183	That makes sense. That's not in the proposal. But has the working group also considered proposing to limit the external funding of support for MPs? There must be transparency about the funding of support for MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u184	No, the working party didn't say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u185	I'm closing the debate. I see Mr Öztürk standing by the interrupting microphone. No, Mr Öztürk, you did not take part in the debate. That was Mr Kuzu. I shall conclude this debate. I'd like to go over a few things with the Chamber. We shall vote on this proposal on Tuesday, on the amendments and on the motions for resolutions. We are therefore voting on the Klein motion, which is addressed to the government, unless the motion is held. I propose that the section of the stenogram on the Klein motion be transferred to the government with the request to respond before this motion is put to the vote. However, I do not know whether this will be possible before Tuesday. Perhaps Mr Klein could hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u186	I will be happy to hold the motion pending the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u187	At the request of Mr Klein, I propose his motion (34567, No. 9), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u188	The debate was closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u189	I want to make a personal statement. Mr Bishop spoke of a threat. That is by no means the case. It is true that we will take it into account when looking for support from a small party. I'd like to straighten that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-5.u190	Thank you. It's been noted.
