ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State, the Members and the people who are following the debate in a different way. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Siderius on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. As you have just said, we are talking today about reaching agreement with parents on the part of the development perspective. I think now that everyone's really gone completely. I think the Secretary of State thinks the same thing. The development perspective is a description of the possible outflow profile of a student. That can be practical education, mavo, havo or extra support. Today it is proposed to add to this development perspective a description of the guidance given to the individual pupil in the special education sector if it transcends the school's basic offer. In addition, it is proposed that in regular education the part of action described in the individual support should be determined only if there is agreement with the parents, i.e. consent from the parents. The law looks very sympathetic, because who does not want to give parents more rights when it comes to the education programme of one's own child? Parents must have a say in education, but participation is something other than consent. The SP has a lot of questions about this bill. Depending on the answer given by the Secretary of State, the SP Group will consider the matter. We really need those answers in order to be able to make a good judgement on this. The first point concerns the usefulness and necessity of this bill. The cabinet argues that it is an implementation of an adopted motion and that the legislative proposal is merely a political choice of parliament. There have been no reports at parental inspection of the lack of consent on the part of the development perspective. There hasn't been any research. What is the reason why, in the period between the adoption of the motion and now, the examination of the bill, the Secretary of State did not carry out any additional research to see if this really is a problem that is in practice and that needs to be resolved? I read in this morning's newspaper that colleagues, particularly those in favour of the bill, receive numerous emails from parents about the part of the development perspective. To be honest, I have never received an e-mail from parents about the part of the development perspective. I do get a lot of emails from parents at home. This involves complex problems: cooperation with youth aid and schools that do not tailor the educational programme to the student or do not provide tailor-made work. The part of the development perspective simply does not occur in this. Is it possible that one of my colleagues might share those e-mails with me? I would like to be persuaded to vote in favour of this bill, but I have not received numerous emails from parents on the part of the development perspective. The second point is the detachment. Including education was one of the goals of so-called appropriate education. Departure from education and care was necessary for this. It is therefore surprising that the Secretary of State is now putting a wall back into the development perspective. The content of education, the curriculum, and the outflow profile only require dialogue with parents, but parental consent should be provided for educational support. What is the reason why the Secretary of State makes this distinction? If the position of parents needs to be strengthened, you could also choose to have the entire development perspective drawn up by the parents. So you could get them to agree at all or not at all. In addition, teachers say that in practice the part of action is difficult to distinguish from the development perspective. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? Thirdly, the scope. In the note following the report, the government states that if agreement is not reached with parents, the school is still responsible for providing appropriate education. Further on, it says that the government deliberately does not propose that schools should no longer be able to act without parental consent. Whether or not the parents' consent makes no difference in fact, you would think. How exactly should my group interpret these passages? In addition, where there is no consent from parents, reference is made to arbitration committees and the judge. I do not think that we should want to be able to judge education. Isn't investing in dialogue with parents better than writing down a dead letter in the law? How does the Secretary of State view this? Teaching is a business. Teachers have full-time training before they are allowed to stand in front of the classroom. And if it's okay, they're still qualified. From their knowledge and expertise, they can take educational decisions that benefit the development of individual children. The advocates of the bill say that a parent always knows what is best for one's own child. Of course, a parent knows how one's own child works, but I doubt that any parent can make precise educational or care-related considerations. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at this. Proponents remind us that the right of consent applies to the child's care, but in the note on the report, the Secretary of State writes that the part of the act is based on educational considerations, in addition to pedagogical and social considerations. If the Secretary of State is serious about this, isn't that a violation of the professionalism of our teachers? Can the Secretary of State reflect on this? A common complaint in education is the workload and the administrative burden. In the spring we discussed this with each other. Then Secretary of State Dekker said very tough on TV that the administration of teachers is no longer necessary; if they don't find it necessary, they don't have to do it anymore. To ask the Secretary of State to mention what more specific rules could be deleted, the answer was: that is up to the school authorities. Free compassion, that's what we call it. The SP therefore does not understand that after all this muscle language of the Secretary of State about lowering the regulatory pressure, all sorts of new administrative burdens are suddenly imposed in this bill. That doesn't seem consistent. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? Speaking of bureaucracy, appropriate education would reduce bureaucracy. Schools and teachers complain about the increase in bureaucracy. Take special education, for example. 116 out of 263 special education schools deal with 6 to 10 partnerships with their own forms, procedures and policies. 31 schools have to deal with 21 partnerships or more. This isn't a do. Why does the Secretary of State now opt for even more bureaucracy? Why does he not choose to agree on uniform forms and procedures with the partnerships? The bill costs three million. That's what the schools are gonna have to cough up from the lump sum. There's no compensation from the cabinet. With this, we charge schools with a so-called silent cut; an amount of 3 million euros that is not invested in the classroom, the teacher or education. Is the Secretary of State prepared to compensate the three million in schools? In spring, the Siderius motion (31497, No. 188) on severely limited pupils at cluster 3 schools. These pupils have the right to attend education up to the age of 20 if there is still a development perspective. However, from the age of 18 these pupils, or the parents, have to pay the cost of the care themselves. There is no longer any allowance in child benefit, but they do have to deal with very high care costs. That means parents are taking their kid out of school for financial reasons. The motion asked these students to grant a Wajong benefit for the period after their 18th year of education. This motion was adopted by a large majority in this Chamber. The Secretary of State for Education and Social Affairs is now investigating whether this would be a real problem, while a list can be provided of cluster 3 schools where parents have taken their child away for financial reasons. Today we are talking about a 'problem' which we can ask ourselves whether it is also a problem in practice. There have been no reports to the educational inspection and no research has been carried out. Is the Secretary of State prepared to stop the investigation following the Siderius motion immediately and to immediately submit a bill to the Chamber which provides for these pupils to return to education so that the parents do not enter the ship financially? I hope that the Secretary of State's answers will be well thought out and of good quality, because we are really going to look at what we should do with this bill on the basis of those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Every parent wants the best education for his or her child. Especially if extra support is needed, it is important that parents can participate. For the Christian Union, the position of parents is important. After all, it's about their child. In 2014, the appropriate education system was introduced, introducing "consistent consultation" in the law. In the explanatory memorandum I see no reflection on the functioning of this part of the appropriate education Act. At the start of the bill, the ECPO warned, among other things, about ensuring the position of parents. I ask the Secretary of State: what is the state of play now? Has the Secretary of State, for example, received many signals from educational consultants about failing eye's? I have seen many poignant cases of children sitting at home because the school cannot provide the right care or of parents with hands in their hair because the trading plan is not sufficient to allow the child to develop properly. The parents who approach us with the problems they are experiencing meet schools that are not willing to consult and who have not sought any approximation. They're stuck in the system. Schools, as parents say, are in the broadcasting mode in these cases, where there is no agreement, let alone a consultation. They therefore ignore the legal obligation to conduct an agreement-oriented consultation and pass through the parents. That's actually the problem. Does the Secretary of State know those signals, too? And how big is this problem? That's what the Council of State is asking for. The Council of State rightly points out the importance of a balance between the duty of care of schools on the one hand and the wishes of parents on the other. This is also crucial for the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u4	I'd like to go back to the eye, as it's called in education. This has existed for a long time, but in the relationship between schools and municipalities. The schools are now in the position of the parents: they have a question, for example, on housing, and then the municipality is obliged to hold an agreement-oriented consultation. That's actually a covert term for: you just don't have anything to say when you're in school. That's actually the position of the parents. Is Mr Bruins aware of this practice? And how does he look from that perspective that the PO Council and the VO Council are now pretending to be a panacea that will suddenly solve all the problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr Van Meenen made his point. This is a crucial point for the Christian Union. If ooto works, what do you need permission for? If ooto is a tissue for bleeding or an abbreviation that really doesn't mean anything in practice, then we have to look very carefully at what these schools are doing. It can't be that you agree to hold an eye-to-conference, but that doesn't mean anything in practice. That is what we need to find out in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u6	I can help Mr Bruins along the way. You do have such a consultation in practice, an eye, but it is not obliged to come to a conclusion. We do not make laws here for the 95% or perhaps 98% of the cases where things are just going well in the Netherlands, in this case also with children. We are making laws here to enforce that, if necessary, there is also a position for the parents. At least that is my view. I wonder how Mr Bruins will react to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr Van Meenen actually suggests that schools on a large scale ignore their legal duty and that the term "oogo" actually means nothing. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State what signals he hears and how big this problem is, also because this was a question for the Council of State when he looked at the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u8	To correct this, I am not suggesting that schools in large numbers ignore their legal duty. I am just saying that in 98% of the cases in schools things are just going well. Kids find the right care there. But you make a law for cases where things don't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. Mr Bruins continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u10	One parent rightly pointed out that not only the school but also the parents have a duty of care for their child. Parents want their child to develop as well as possible, at home and at school. It is also not so black and white that the school has the professional knowledge about guidance and care and the parents do not. Parents also seek expert advice and have a vision of their child's development. The question for tonight is: how do we find the balance, how do we shape the joint responsibility? If the current rules are maintained and schools and partnerships are doing what they should be doing, then the situation should be as follows, as I say in response to what Mr Van Meenen said: schools go in consultation with parents, they come up with a solution that is best for the child and which is worn by both parties, the school and the parents bring their own expertise and creativity into the process, and the partnership provides the right means to implement the trading plan. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he shares this view. Does he agree with me that the implementation of the duty of care also means that the solution must be shared by the parents? Is this not already in line with the current legal situation of the agreement-oriented consultation or practice, to go with Mr Van Meenen on this point? Is there not a strong connection here with the settlement of the power of perseverance within cooperation, to which the OCW Committee has pointed several times in AO's and on which we also have the State Secretary's undertaking that this will be properly regulated in the foreseeable future? In the written reply, the Secretary of State acknowledges that the legislative proposal poses a major risk of legalisation. Mrs Siderius mentioned that as well. Can he explain what he means by that? I hear, for example, that the step to the complaints committee is often large, because parents do not want to compromise the relationship of trust with the school. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Prior to the introduction of the appropriate education, parents had the right to consent to the trade plan at the time. This trading plan was strongly interwoven with the then backpack, the student's budget. It was therefore reasonable to give parents a firm influence on the use of that money. At the time, the Christian Union also voted in favour of this proposal, but the position of parents has now weakened and, strangely enough, the position of schools has not become stronger. So there is another balance sheet, but what is the balance sheet is still unclear, because appropriate education has only just begun. Schools now depend on the budget from partnerships. School boards have a duty of care in this system, but not control over the money. That could get tight. When parents make strong demands on the trading plan and demand more hours of guidance, the new system of appropriate education does not automatically mean that the school has more budget for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u11	I dispute that the position of the schools has not been strengthened. In any case, that is the case with the parents. They lost something, and they didn't lose the schools. Does Mr Bruins agree with me that the partnership is not a separate body from the schools, but that it is just the joint schools run by the school boards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u12	This is again a very nice about theory and practice, this question from Mr Van Meenen. We see that the partnerships are working well in some places, especially in places where directors consult each other very directly, but we also hear that things are not working well in some places. From teachers who like to offer a child care and education because they want to help it, I hear that it is extremely difficult for them that this is still a big step, and that it really takes a lot of time and administration before there is certainty about it. In some places it just doesn't work so well yet, and then you see that parents have gotten a weaker position, but that schools haven't gotten the strength that would balance that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u13	Finalizing, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u14	There are undoubtedly partnerships where it does not work well. But whether this power lies with the partnership as a body, or with the schools: it is a force on the part of the school organisation. Well, then these schools made a wrong deal, but it can't stand in the way of parents' rights, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u15	My point is that the school boards or teachers, depending on how well organised they are in the partnerships, can get involved formally between the partnership and the parents. Whether this is the case depends very much on how it is organised. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State what he thinks about this mangel, about this extra layer that forms the partnership in some cases. The legislative proposal will distinguish parents' rights between the development perspective and the trading plan. The educational objective requires agreement-oriented consultation and parental consent in the choice of instruments, the elaboration of the trade plan, is necessary. This can be a problem when school and parents are thinking differently about the development perspective and the part of action. The Council of State calls the distinction artificial and I wonder whether it can be cut with scissors or not. Parents could even indirectly influence the development perspective by imposing high demands on the trading plan, for example because they feel that their child should be discharged at a higher level, using additional guidance. The Secretary of State stated in the written reply that a strengthened trading plan could lead to an update of the outflow profile. Surely that cannot be the intention, since we want to improve the position of the teacher as a professional? Are we just going to get the teacher's outflow advice in the wind? In special education and secondary special education, a part of the act is now included in the law, which brings this into line with regular education. But in that special education there is often a lack of care money to be used from parents, and that which comes from educational money. This dividing line is still unclear for parents, Mrs Siderius. Does the part of the action make this clearer for the parents? Is that an advantage that we can get out of this bill? I am concerned that is my last point about the substantial increase in the administrative burden of EUR 3.1 million. The explanatory memorandum states that 70,000 pupils x 1 hour x €45. That means 70,000 hours of extra administration for teachers in special education. Isn't this at the expense of class hours? Don't teachers have enough paperwork to do? In my first term, I say that, after all the desperate emails from parents about schools that do not want to enter into consultation, I am neutral about this bill, but I still believe that agreement-oriented consultation that does not work as it should, is actually the complaint of parents, rather than that they need consent. So I would very much like to await the continuation of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. Johan came home to sit while he was dying to go to school to play and learn with his peers. It went wrong at his last school, from which he was removed. There were many problems there and his parents had a lot of concerns about Johan's behavior at home and at school, but they didn't feel taken seriously. At his new school, however, the parents are taken seriously. Here, the educational partnership is central and the school deals with parents, each from its own knowledge and experience, to jointly determine what additional support works for a child. This is recorded in the part of the act and therefore there is always agreement. They are also in favour of this bill. Fortunately, Johan goes back to school five days a week, but that didn't happen automatically. At home and at school, he quickly fired into resistance again. He then shouts, "Go away, I don't want that! He's pushing everyone, so the teacher and his parents, off of him. By working at home and at school with the same approach and talking about it and working on it in the same way, there is improvement. The teachers and the parents help Johan to name his feeling and then indicate in a calm tone what behavior they consider desirable. Johan's doing his job because of this. He also gets a reward when things go well instead of just corrective measures, making his behaviour problems worse. The parents practice this intensively at home and Johan is at school again quietly working on his chair. He's getting compliments for sticking to the deal. This example, of which we fortunately have a lot but which is far from standard throughout the Netherlands, teaches us that positive contact between parents and school benefits the child but also the situation at school, in the classroom. This makes the child develop better. It is quieter in the classroom and also more pleasant at home. Thus, every child can make a healthy start in his life and achieve optimal learning. I would like to give it to every child, and that is why I am a great supporter of this bill. Together parents and school work on the optimal development of the child. The child is central; not the position of one who is stronger than the other. There is a continuous dialogue between equal partners, each with their own educational expertise. Johan shines again, and both teachers and his parents are satisfied and confident in the future, even if they may face new challenges again. If you allow people to work together equally on an issue, there is a real chance that they will come to a shared constructive solution. But if you present the same issue to people in an unequal situation, there is a much greater chance that there will be no agreement, even if the intention is the agreement-oriented consultation. The main success factor is when teachers and parents see each other as partners and things aligned. As a result, thresholds will be as low as possible, they will be informed and they will strive for dialogue and cooperation. The common interest of the child will then be paramount. That must be the norm, and that standard must be laid down by law here today. The legal consent right already existed before 2014. Since the introduction of the Appropriate Education Act, that right of consent has expired. Each (in), Balance sheet, Parents & Education, Parents of Value, the Dutch Foundation for the Disabled Child and many others find that parents of children with disabilities have often not felt heard since, with the result that the child no longer works well at school or even gets home. Parental involvement and equal co-operation with school are of great importance for the performance and social emotional well-being of children. Re-introducing the right of consent gives parents an equal position in consultation with the school about their own child. Precisely parents of children and young people with learning and behavioral problems or a disability know what their special child needs and how it can develop well. Parents like to invest in good cooperation with the school in the interests of their child. According to NSGK, for example, the legal right to consent to the part of the development perspective is necessary to do justice to the special knowledge and experience of parents and to give parents the assurance that the concerns and insights about their particular child are being listened to. Sometimes children can build bridges between the classroom, their family, their sports club and their friends, but especially for vulnerable children with, for example, autism, they can't do this themselves. Their parents are essential in this. I'd like parents to be taken seriously and take their role. That is why I am asking, together with all these parent organisations, to support the parents with this bill and to help start the dialogue between parents and teachers! They are both responsible for a good development. Also ensure better outcomes in education for children, especially for children with disabilities or fewer opportunities. Children still spend most of their time at home and also a lot of time at school. That doesn't make raising and teaching separate from each other. The Dutch Youth Institute therefore considers it very important that educators and educational professionals work together. If there is equal cooperation between parents and school, there is a greater chance that children will develop and develop better. Good contacts between school, parents and pupils work through the quality of the school and benefit the learning performance and social development of pupils. I have tabled an amendment to this bill together with Mrs Siderius and Mr Van Meenen. That amendment provides for parents of pupils in mainstream education with a support arrangement of an institution of cluster 1 or 2, i.e. for children with visual, auditory or communicative disabilities, to be given participation in the policy of the institution providing the support. In doing so, the three proposers implement an earlier motion in which the government was asked to ensure this participation in schools under the Law. I'm forgetting something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u17	Then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u18	I think it is my job as legislator to protect vulnerable parties from force majeure for a fair trial, but I would like to add that there is often a lot of unnecessary information in the development perspective. I agree with Mr Bruins, who has just mentioned this. The development perspective is extremely long and takes teachers a lot of time. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to discuss this with the PO Council and the VO Council, for example, in order to ensure that this becomes much shorter and more concrete. Just when parents agree, you can avoid all kinds of problems and bureaucracy. I would like to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. The CDA was one of the co-signators of the motion that led to this bill. We were of the opinion that the position of parents in determining the part of the development perspective should be strengthened with the introduction of appropriate education. This development perspective describes the support and guidance of a student who needs extra care. In the situation for the introduction of appropriate education... when every child in need of extra care was given a so-called backpack... parents' involvement was well regulated. They decided, together with the school, how the additional funds would be spent. With this bill, we ensure that the involvement of these parents is secured in the same way as during the period of the backpack. For the CDA, it is important that the school remains responsible for the content of education and for the guidance of the pupil and for the pursuit of the educational objectives set. We are therefore reassured on this point by the Government's response to the report. Parents and school are partners in the guidance and development of children. It is therefore very important that they agree together on the guidance and support of a child who needs extra care. It is especially important for this group of vulnerable children that parents and schools are not divided. In the event of disagreement, an educational consultant as an independent party can mediate between parents and school. If this does not lead to a solution, the proceedings to the Disputes Committee are open. In the meantime, the school will provide individual guidance to the child about who does agree with the parents. On the issue of professionalism, the CDA does not share the criticism that the Council of State had on this issue. It is very doubtful whether the small number of complaints that would indicate that this bill is not necessary is because there is no problem or whether parents, because of their weaker, not equivalent position, do not dare to complain. The submission of a complaint to the Temporary Disputes Committee is really an extreme step, which parents will not take soon, precisely because of the partnership that they will not want to put under pressure. Many disputes will therefore not be raised, but resolved among themselves. For the CDA, it is important that the position of parents should not be weakened, but should be brought back to the level prior to the introduction of appropriate education. This was also clear from the input of various organisations during the round table organised prior to the plenary discussion of this bill. During that round table I listened with great attention and heard good things. In that conversation, for example, the former director of the Noord-Kennemerland association was cited by one of the speakers. He was explicitly in favour of parental consent. He states that schools must learn to respect that parents who do not agree with the part of the action cannot but give their agreement. These parents are not difficult, he says, but do their job, namely to educate and develop their children according to their own insights and views. This bill respects that important position of parents in finding suitable support for their children. We are already looking forward with interest to the announced review of the law. It is good to evaluate after a number of years whether the law brings what it seeks, namely a more equal position of parents and school on this part of the development perspective. After all, it is the school that indicates the development perspective of a child, the level that a child can achieve, but the way to it, the path that the child is going to walk, they reach together with the parents. That is why we are enthusiastic about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr. Chairman. Working on a suitable educational spot for each student is a huge job. The system change that has been in place for a few years requires a lot of schools. The least you can do as a parliament to help schools do this is to get in their way as little as possible with new changes again. If we are to burden schools with changes, they must be absolutely necessary, otherwise we will slow down a process of change rather than promoting or facilitating it. If the government is moving in a erratic direction, it will encourage a cynical attitude on the part of the citizens. You can already hear it: "they have something again" or "again new." For this reason, the SGP is not in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u21	At the time, Minister Van Bijsterveldt repeatedly stated that the Law on appropriate education is not yet complete and that it is a "law work in progress." The ECPO, the Evaluation and Advisory Committee on appropriate education, warned the State Secretary with an orange traffic light, inter alia because the position of parents is not yet properly regulated. Does that not mean that Mr Bishop should think about what he said earlier about this moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u22	At the moment when this would be noted and there would be signs that parents with their children would get in trouble because no agreement can be reached on a care package that the students need, I fully agree. But those signals aren't there. That is why the SGP is calling for this to be put to rest. This isn't a priority. Let's get it down for a couple of years. Perhaps we should then take the step that parents should have a kind of right of veto on the part of action. But there must be a need for that. Otherwise, you're just gonna have to let go of a trial you turned off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u23	I cannot prescribe how to do your job as a representative of the people and understand very well that Mr Bishop could not be present at the round table, but he has received in writing the contributions of the Dutch Foundation for the Disabled Child, Balance, Each (in), Parents & Education and OLDERS OF VALUE. In their contributions, all these different organisations give countless examples of children who are affected by this. Then how can Mr Bishop indicate here that there are no signals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u24	When it comes to being approached by parents who are stuck, I agree with Mr Bruins. I didn't get any e-mails calling the bell because it went wrong. Through via there are all kinds of stories, but well, those are the stories that come in via.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u25	It is rarely the case that Mr Bishop and I have different experiences from all those years we have spent in education, but he must also have noticed that the position of parents with the introduction of appropriate education has seriously deteriorated. Isn't it just a matter of strengthening that position? That's nothing special, is it? Schools have worked with the same position for countless years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u26	I cannot talk about practical educational experience at the time it was introduced, because then I was in the Chamber. But from before that, from the backpack trail and the like, I have kept up with several schools that the consultation with the parents always came first to a treatment that really helped the child. I do not have any reason at the moment, nor any signs, either from work visits or from contacts with parents, that this would be fundamentally different and schools are now suddenly manifesting themselves as the one who will say it and that parents have to agree to it. I am getting the signal that there is always a search for a balance, an agreement on an approach that is in the best interests of the child. That's what the conversation's always about. So I see no need to impose this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u27	It is exactly as Mr Bishop says: we both worked in the situation where parents had the right to consent through the backpack. That didn't cause any trouble. In any case, we are sure that the parents no longer have the right to consent in the current situation. There really is evidence, from all these parent organisations, that there are problems. Those clues reach the Chamber through them. So I really wonder why Mr Bishop is not prepared to give the parents the right they always had. Then we go back to a situation that we both know is not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u28	I choose not to accept this proposal now, because under the new regime, with the new approach, there are no signs that there are problems and insoluble situations. At least those signals did not reach me directly or through contacts. Of course, we sometimes need to talk about what is most desirable now, but there is always a solution. I don't think you should intervene unnecessarily in an ongoing process. Then it must be really necessary, then things must go wrong. Otherwise, you have to take the time and have the courage to take a step back and let the process be the process. The government is honestly saying that we are dealing with a political choice here, not a pressing problem that needs to be resolved. I would like to underline it once again from the information that everyone has at their disposal. However, the choice of this proposal is not without obligation. The proposal may even be counterproductive. Parents are entitled to consent to a professional assessment of the support required. The pressure that this can create in schools does not have to work in advance in favour of the child. I would ask the Secretary of State to take this up again. The SGP understands that parents are looking for the best for their child. They have been kept to that, and we very much welcome that. My question is how the present proposal relates to the professionalism of the teachers who, in the context of the introduction of the teacher register, were so passionately confessed a week ago. Don't they have that professionalism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u29	I am not doing anything about the commitment to the professional space of teachers, but I am trying to change Mr Bishop's mind by taking another example from care. Suppose in healthcare doctors decide which treatment a child gets, for example a polio injection. I know that there are people in Mr Bishop's circles who oppose this. They still have that right in the Netherlands. How would Mr Bishop feel if the doctor said he was going to do it from his professional point of view? Get the syringe in! That is precisely what is happening in schools today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u30	No, I don't think so. The difference is that this is an obligation. It is a treatment to which the child must submit. In the situation we have in the context of appropriate education, it is an offer that a school can make: this is it, this is what we focus on. Consensual consultation is not an empty cry. This is what we focus on, this is what we can offer. Everyone is free to refuse. The example mentioned by Mr Van Meenen underlines precisely that we should stick to the line as it is currently arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u31	Finalizing, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u32	I am very sorry, but here Mr Bishop is turning away from the example I gave. If we applied the same reasoning, there would be a very good conversation, but ultimately it is the doctor who decides. You can do so for so long about the agreement-oriented consultation and you can also say that someone has to find another doctor who is willing not to. That is what Mr Bishop says. However, for the group of children we are talking about, we cannot just go to another school. This is the offer and you can refuse it, go to another school: that's not how it works. There aren't so many places for these kids. I don't have much of a question, but I'm disappointed. I just really don't understand Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u33	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u34	Perhaps I can still respond somewhat to Mr Van Meenen and take away some of that disappointment. Because there's a construction flaw in the equation. That doctor doesn't force the doctor to offer. That teacher or that school doesn't force that school to offer. In this sense, it is a plea to maintain the policy pursued. In the follow-up to the Ypma motion, the government cuts the gap between the development perspective and the part of the action. There's a problem there, too. It continues to be a bit harsh, as the development perspective is closely linked to the additional support that needs to be deployed. Does the government wish to explain why acceptance of the student's perspective is more profound than approval of the concrete support that should be used for this purpose? Doesn't the interference with the support take much more directly into the professional space? The SGP would like a more detailed explanation of the chosen distinction, especially since the term "part of action" was not yet covered by the appropriate education Act. The law states that there is a development perspective and that a description of the additional support should be included. According to the government, that description of that additional support is the part of action, but that is not the way it is defined in the law itself. However, the law also has an explicit obligation to mention deviations from the education programme in the development perspective. According to the government, does that happen inside or outside the part of the act? I hope I can get a clear answer to this. I would stress that there are more appropriate education in law that we need to think about before we isolate and enlarge one element, and then we will all settle things. Let us take the time to do so a little more broadly. If it happens next year, there's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. Since the introduction of appropriate education in August 2014, only recently, efforts have been made to include pupils who need additional support in mainstream education as much as possible. Measures have been taken to ensure that the necessary support can actually be provided. One of these measures is the development of the development perspective, a document which the competent authority of the school must establish for each pupil who needs additional support. The competent authority shall establish the development perspective after agreement has been reached with the parents. This bill adds that the part of the development perspective on individual guidance, the part of action, must also be agreed with parents. This implies that if the parents eventually, after a lot of trouble, did not agree to the part of the action, the school would no longer be able to provide the child with individual guidance and the child might have to leave the school. Does the Secretary of State see that danger? Prior to the introduction of the appropriate education, the authority of a school was obliged to draw up a trading plan for pupils in need of special care. At that time it was also mentioned the requirement of parental consent. Less than a year ago, the trade plan was replaced by this development perspective. This replaced the requirement of parental consent by an obligation to conduct the eyewitness with the parents. Appropriate education has only just been developed, but this proposal amends the procedure around the part of the act within one year of its introduction. The explanatory memorandum does not show that, in the short time since the introduction of appropriate education, problems have arisen which are so serious and so extensive that this change of law would be justified. The PVV sees no reason to change the law. Nor does the Council of State. It even gives the final judgment that it is better to send the change of law but not to the Chamber. That doesn't happen very often. As far as we are concerned, this change involves more bureaucracy than a solution. According to the PVV, Oogo, this consultation provides sufficient frameworks and prevents schools and teachers from establishing support without consultation with parents. By introducing the right of consent on the part of action, we believe that the consultation between teachers and parents is more frustrated than promoted. It must be about the student and it must not be an endless negotiation between the teacher or the school and the parents. It is an important point for us that it also affects the autonomy of the professional who works in that process. It really hits the teacher's professional space and that is ultimately the expert. That teacher really needs that professional space to be able to make choices in that palette of guidance and the kind of educational programs he has at his disposal. It is the teacher who has to perform it in his own teaching practice, in that class where there are many other children. That was the reason for the PVV to vote against the Ypma motion that led to this legislative amendment. Locking up. There has been no evidence that there have been serious problems with the development perspective following the introduction of appropriate education. Due to the fact that the development perspective is to the professional and ultimately not to the parent, but certainly also to avoid endless discussions with a very limited group of parents that will arise with the introduction of this legislative amendment, the PVV will vote against this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. This evening we are discussing the proposal to introduce the right of assent on the part of the development perspective. A mouthful! It sounds very technical, Mrs Siderius, but it is really very concrete and very important. It's about kids who want to go to school but need extra support from the school to do that. That is also the essence of appropriate education, on which this bill is an amendment. The child's need is central and it is up to a school to offer a child what it needs to be able to participate fully, first at school and therefore later better in society. The introduction of appropriate education has been a major change for education and certainly not everything is going well. Sometimes parents are happy with the support that a school can offer and sometimes not. We already provided this in the development of appropriate education. Schools have therefore been given a duty of care: they must make the child an appropriate offer and, if they cannot provide for it themselves, they must find a solution within their partnership. Often it does, but sometimes it doesn't. I do not close my eyes to that either, because sometimes schools do not take care obligations seriously enough. It is not for nothing that I tabled a motion earlier this year, together with Mrs Ypma, to improve the enforcement of care obligations. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State what's going on with that. In addition to this duty of care, there has also been a dispute settlement committee, where parents can submit their questions in order to find a solution. The question I would like to ask the Secretary of State is how he assesses the functioning of that Disputes Committee. Does he indeed do what she should do? And how does it relate to the bill before us? It is true that parents are sometimes not satisfied with the support that the school can and will offer the child. Those messages, of course, reach me too. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the question before me is not so much whether there are situations where schools and parents together do not come out but what is the best way to solve it. This legislative proposal provides that the plan of action for children who need additional support can only be adopted after parental consent. Now I'm a parent myself and I know that every parent always wants what's best for his or her child. Every parent also wants to be heard and talk about it, especially if a child needs extra support. In today's law, the law that has just been introduced, appropriate education, we have also regulated it. Schools must consult parents on the level of support provided by the school. That consultation is aimed at getting out together with the parents, parents and school together, side by side. As far as I'm concerned, that's the best thing for the child. Nothing that is on the table today shows that we must already assume that this is not working in general and that we should be suspicious of schools and teachers in this respect. There are no figures or studies on the basis of this bill and no other measures have been taken or envisaged. As far as the VVD is concerned, we should therefore first wait for the evaluation of the appropriate education before we add new rules. The Council of State also takes the short time between the introduction of the Appropriate Education Act and the amendment to it which is now being proposed in its opinion not to send this proposal to the Chamber. I ask the Secretary of State why he felt he should. As has already been said, things are not always going well, even though the vast majority of them are. If it does not go well in individual cases, would it not be better to focus on improving the current situation and thus improving the conversation between parents and the school? This is more appealing to us than to think that with the strengthening of parents' legal position you have the magic wand that solves everything. After all, that is what is being done with this bill. We don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u37	I am trying to imagine what improvement Mrs Straus has in mind for this consensual conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u38	I intend to table a motion on this later, but I would like to make a preliminary point. My idea is to bet on mediation. If the conversation between the parents and the school becomes stalemate, I would like to put an independent institute next to it, for example educational consultants. They can make that conversation work again and together they can make sure that a solution is found. After all, it is a question of genuine agreement-oriented consultation. I believe that Mr Van Meenen has just advocated this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u39	Of course, that sounds very kind, but I think mediation always takes place between two parties who have equal rights, for example in the case of divorce. It would be very special if you lived in a country in which, in the event of divorce, there was an agreement between the two partners, while the man ultimately decided. That may be a dream for some in this Chamber, but not for me. You won't get far with mediation. If the power and decision ultimately lies with one party, any agreement-oriented consultation or any form of mediation is based on an unequal position. I really don't understand why the VVD wants to go through with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u40	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u41	Suppose that, when we introduced the appropriate education system, for which several parties have argued, we had the right of assent to that part of the action. What would be the position of Mrs Straus? Would she be in favour of getting that out now? Is the point that it was not immediately in it, the strongest point from Mrs Straus' speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u42	I mean to argue that we have deliberately used the appropriate education Act to ensure that education and parents create much more in common. Mr Van Meenen has a different view on this than we do, but I would at least like to give it the benefit of the doubt. I want to give it a chance. We haven't done that so far. I've also had signals, but they were all about individual situations. In the casuism that was on my desk, it was always about the conversation between the school and the parents being stagnated somehow. In all the situations in which I have made suggestions to help, the educational consultants have made that conversation smooth, so that it has eventually led to agreement. That makes me say, "Bet more on that."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u43	But we already have that possibility, don't we? Those educational consultants are already here, aren't they? Mrs Straus has also received all the reports in which parents' organisations not only indicate what the problems are, but also what the solution is, namely an equal position for parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mrs Ypma's motion was tabled when those educational consultants were not yet in position. That really didn't turn out well until last year. I have the feeling that we could be much more committed to that than we are doing now. The cases that were on my desk, but also the things I heard during the round table conversation, were often about situations that had a long history and in which children have been struggling for a long time to get a good place in education, also for the appropriate education. These educational consultants weren't there at the time. I think there is still a long way to go at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u45	We share the view that it is important that there is good communication, but at the moment there is no obligation to come out together. There's a consensus-oriented consultation, but that actually means we're trying to get out together, but I have a little more to say than you do. That's not fair, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u46	In the cases that I have seen, the educational consultants have been able to play a very valuable role in order to make things easier and ultimately to get out with the schools. This is certainly not the case in all situations. I also know the representative organisations. There are very difficult cases, but there is still a whole world to win before we change the law head-on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mrs Straus attaches great importance to the work of the educational consultants, as does the CDA Group. They can already play a resourceful role. So we don't need a motion for that. My question is in line with what Mr Van Meenen asked. If such a resourceful role is played, is it not very valuable that the starting position of both parties is equivalent? What is Mrs Straus' answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u48	Eventually, the school makes an offer. Mr Bishop has said this very well. The school makes an offer within the possibilities that it has or that it sees within the partnership. In the end, you'll always have to take that with you in finding agreement with parents. A parent will not always get his way in all respects, because he never has it all to himself. You will always have to look for the best possible solution in consultation with the school, depending on the situation. Both sides will have to look into it and weigh in it. Mrs Van Bijsterveldt has not for nothing incorporated the agreement-oriented consultation into the law in this way. We really need to give that a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u49	I agree with Mrs Straus that you need to get out of there. But what is the problem of allowing the position of an institution, the school, and a parent, who is the first to be responsible for raising children, to be equal at the start of the conversation and in the event of any conflict? What's so terrible about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u50	There is nothing terrible about that in itself, but Mr Rog assumes that the intention of the school must be distrusted in advance. In this way, we have not designed the appropriate education. That equality is now also there. It is not legally defined with the right to consent, but that does not mean that agreement-oriented consultation is an empty matter. That too must actually work. As far as I am concerned, we will also see in the evaluation of the appropriate education Act whether it works or not. If we then come to the conclusion together that it is not working properly, we need to re-examine whether additional legal measures are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u51	Isn't Mrs. Straus turning it around now? Isn't this mistrust going the other way at the moment? If you don't speak from an equal position and have more to say from one to the other, then there's that mistrust right now, isn't there? We can still lift that mistrust by talking from an equal position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u52	I don't see it like Mrs. Ypma, but the other way around. The school has an independent responsibility to make an offer. He makes that offer with all the professionalism and consideration. Eventually, the parents and the school in there must come to a solution together. I am absolutely in favour of the school and the parents coming out in all situations, but together. As far as I am concerned, the agreement-oriented consultation is a very good step in this direction. If we can strengthen that a little bit by means of mediation by the educational consultants, there is still a whole world to win.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u53	Does Mrs Straus agree with me that parents have always been lagging behind? They always play an outing game. The school is drawing up the trading plan. This is prepared by the experts, by the teachers. Such a document in itself already exudes authority. Shouldn't you make the conversation fairer by making their position equal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u54	You shouldn't make the conversation more honest. You need to start the conversation very early, and you need to hang out. It's the school's responsibility to partner with parents. I do not see how their legal position is going to change in that without serious cause. I'm rounding up. We fear that this bill will rather have the opposite effect of what is intended and that there will be more and also deeper conflicts between parents and professionals. Then we do not know any winners, but we do know clearly losers, namely the children who are involved. We certainly do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr. Chairman. When parties have equal rights, problems can arise, I would just like to add to Mrs Straus' story. That's difficult, of course. You can solve that by giving one of the parties the decision, but we don't want that anywhere else in our society. I just gave the example of the divorce. Then there are also many conflicts and there is also legalisation. We can also solve this by means of agreement-oriented consultation and, in this case, by means of one of the two partners, let us say that women must take the decision. That saves a lot of trouble, procedures and administration. You must seriously ask yourself whether this will achieve the optimal situation. For many years, for 16 years, I have worked with municipalities in a spirit of consultation. I can write books on what "consensual consultation" means. It is truly appalling that the PO Council and VO Council are now coming up with the argument of agreement-oriented consultation. They have always hated being in that position vis-à-vis the municipalities when it comes to housing. Now it's a miracle cure. I don't understand. D66 voted against the appropriate education Act. This was for several reasons, but one of the main arguments was the extremely weak position of parents. We must acknowledge that this has been a looming error. We should not now pretend that there is a dramatic change in the law, when we have only just been working for two years. No, this is just repair legislation. Something went wrong at the time. This bill strengthens the position of the parents. I have just given the example to Mr Bishop: in other sectors such as health care, this is considered perfectly normal. You shouldn't imagine coming to a doctor and saying: I suggest this, I hope you agree and if not, I will. I don't think that's a position you want as a patient. D66 has been fighting for four years personally to strengthen the participation of teachers. However, teachers are not made of sugar. Parent involvement is essential for the success of child care and therefore parental control is essential. I'm sure that's gonna be sanded once in a while, but without friction, there's no shine. In the end, education is not for the parents and not for the teachers. It's there for the child. There are two parties that have a very heavy obligation to that child, namely on the one hand the school and on the other hand the parents. As far as my group is concerned, they must be able to determine what is happening in an equal position. In that situation, I have already said it to Mr Bishop O'Brien we have been wrong for a long time, until the introduction of appropriate education, and that went well. In some cases it didn't go well and then there was a dispute. Then there's a dispute and then there's a decision. We shouldn't pretend there's no more worry. No, then there's just a decision. If there is a dispute in this country, we have very regular routes for that. I told you, I've never heard anyone in education say anything positive about the agreement-oriented consultation. It's a frame: we talk, we talk, but I decide. Try to imagine that, as a Chamber, we would have that relationship with the Secretary of State. We are in agreement with the Secretary of State. We can talk here whatever we want, but in the end, he's the one who decides. I don't think that's an attractive image. Neither is the other way around, by the way. Well, yeah, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u56	I actually only hear favorable stories about the eye. I also always hear only favourable, positive stories about other forms of conversations in education, for example where intake is concerned. According to some of our colleagues, the friends of equality, I shall say that none of that was right, it was one perfide system to deceive pupils and parents. Now the eye again. I find it so incredibly cynical of an educator to always come up with these kinds of sounds. All these teachers and those teachers who run them, they're extremely honest, and you're putting them away as a bunch of runners from drivers who have to reach a certain goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u57	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u58	My question is: where are all these examples now? The inspection does not have one example and you will be buried among the examples. The SP already asked for it. Let's see them. Name them. I don't know them, Mrs Siderius doesn't know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u59	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u60	Mr Beertema chose not to be at the round table, for example. Yeah, then you don't hear the examples either. That's easy, but of course they're there. That's one. Then two. I do not know in what context Mr Beertema has ever heard anything positive about the eye in education. He worked in the MBO. There's no eye at all. He wasn't a driver. Then I'll have one benefit from the fact that I have been. I have had numerous consultations with municipalities with a view to reaching agreement. Well, don't count on me going back to my school with positive stories about that. I am very curious to see these positive examples of this agreement-oriented consultation. Finally, perhaps the most important thing, namely the professionalism of the teachers. That's what I fight for every day. That's what we do for doctors. I have great faith in doctors. They have a completely independent professionalism. However, they are not ultimately the ones who decide whether a particular treatment is to take place. That depends on the patient's consent to it. If Mr Beertema wants to get rid of that, he should suggest it here in particular. However, I do not want to get rid of that. I have an equal position with the doctor. He has the knowledge and I have my experiences. Okay, I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u61	That's clear. I used to work in the MBO, yeah. However, I look around, I have a network in education and I speak to people from all forms of education. That's what I wanted to say. In the round table you are talking about, the examples are provided by all these parent domes and so on. You listen to these parent domes too much. How do you explain now that my last question is that the parent domes would have so many examples and the inspection would not have one? That's the way to go, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u62	It's up to parents to choose that path. The fact that there are so few complaints of this kind known to the inspection, for example, can very well have to do with precisely that unequal position and the dependent position that parents currently have in relation to schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr Van Meenen returns to his doctor's frame twice, who believes that there should be a treatment and then, injects into it, enforces that treatment. I've already indicated in my term that the frame is incorrect. It's not the doctor who forces treatment. It is the patient who wants a particular medicine or medical treatment, where the doctor must be in a position to say: you do not need it, the care costs do not have to rise and what you need is this. For example, a patient wants his foot amputated. The doctor says there's no need. Then the doctor must have the space...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u64	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u65	My question to Mr Van Meenen is whether he agrees with me that the relationship should actually be seen as such. I already know his answer, but I'm still asking the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you. You asked the question. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u67	That's not how I see it. I've never heard of a patient who went to a doctor wishing to have his foot amputated. If Mr Bishop knows one, I'd like to speak to him. I do know a lot of people who go to a doctor because they have a problem, because they have complaints or because they know they need care. They talk to the doctor about that and then the doctor makes a proposal. It is then legally regulated that the patient has to agree to this, including, for example, a child of that patient. In this situation, the doctor's professionalism is not affected at all and the patient's independent position is maintained at the same time. I explicitly asked Mr Bishop about the polio issue. There is also a risk of proposals being made in this Chamber that undermine the patient's position. Then these patients are exactly in the position where Mr Bishop wants to have parents in appropriate education now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you. Finalizing, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u69	Here remains that point that the frame doesn't add up. It's another example of forced treatment. That is not the issue in education. If the comparison is to be functional, the frame must be that the patient makes a certain requirement. He wants a certain treatment. Of course, the amputation of a foot is a strange example, but the use of a particular medicine is not. It happens. The doctor must then be in a position to say: no, we have agreement-oriented consultations and we are looking for the best treatment method; I know from my professional experience what the possibilities are and you will have to make a choice from there. I would like Mr Van Meenen to use that comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u70	Your point is clear. Mr Van Meenen, concluding on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u71	I can only say that we are simply not in agreement. I would like to use the example above to show that this bill does not in any way undermine the professionalism of the teachers, as some have suggested here. I would like their appreciation to be at the same level as that of the professionalism of doctors in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u72	I would like to move away from the hypothetical comparison between care and education and present an example to Mr Van Meenen that actually came into my inbox. The director of a practice school tells me about one of his students, who has an IQ of 75. This boy's father wants that boy to be a doctor. The director of the practice school has talked and talked and talked. The eye does not lead to agreement. The part of the act therefore does not lead to agreement. It's not always the case that parents are vulnerable and pathetic. There are also parents who make demands that are not possible. How is the school supposed to handle this under the new bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u73	I have ever referred from this place to the beautiful series Rita, a Danish series about an experienced teacher, in which she is asked: why did you ever become a teacher? Then she thinks about it for three episodes and says: to protect the children from their parents. Of course, that's not why most people become teachers, but of course you're going through that. I have also experienced that parents had completely wrong ideas about what their child needed or could do or whatever. It happens. In the situation we would have if this bill were to be adopted, there would be simply a dispute. An external body will then have to take a decision on this. That's a very good way. Moreover, in extreme situations, which we do not need to work out here, parents can be deprived of control over the child. That's what happens. We must, above all, avoid this, but it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u74	What this real example shows is that the development perspective and the part of action cannot be cut with scissors, because this father is actually talking about the development perspective, which the school is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u75	Once again, but let us be for a while: this is an exceptional situation, fortunately. In most cases this goes well in the Netherlands. That applies to a lot of rules. Most people stick to the speed limit. Most people don't run red. You name it all. What do we make laws for? For the situations where things aren't going well. There are situations like that. We are aware of that. In the situation where a school is unwilling or a child appears to be in tribulation, it is important for that child that his parents have a strong position vis-à-vis the school, only in those situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u76	You have completed your speech. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input. On the basis of three themes, I will answer the questions. The first issue is the usefulness and necessity of the legislative proposal; what prompted it? The second is the relationship between the position of parents on the one hand and the position of school and teachers on the other. The third theme brings together the answers to the questions about what this bill means in terms of workload and administrative burden on the workplace. In some sort of fourth block, I'll answer questions that look a little wider. Good cooperation between parents and school is, in my view, a very important condition for the success of appropriate education. The position of parents is therefore also an important aspect in the appropriate education Act. It has already been agreed that the school should involve parents in the establishment, evaluation and adjustment of the development perspective. The bill we are discussing today aims to further strengthen the position of parents. That is why the legislative proposal regulates that agreement should be reached with parents on the part of the development perspective. I am also aware of the criticism of the bill. I myself had some hesitation when the motion that led to this bill was tabled. This hesitation had to do with the risk of hardening of the relationship between school and parents, possibly even legalisation, and any additional administrative burden. However, when drafting the legislative proposal, we opted for a model that does justice to the request in the motion to strengthen the position of parents. That is an understandable wish. On the other hand, the legislative proposal responds as much as possible to the criticism, which we have tried to overcome. Of course, at a time like this, the question arises as to why this bill is actually needed. Both first speakers, Mrs Siderius of the SP and Mr Bruins of the Christian Union, discussed this in detail. What specific signals are there, what complaints come in to the inspection, and what exactly is going to go wrong? Did more parents report to the educational consultants? We're getting so few e-mails about this, what exactly is it? These are all very legitimate questions, but I would also like to ask both Members of the European Parliament these questions. If they have so many doubts about this, why did they agree two years ago to a motion calling for a legal settlement? Two years ago, when I myself raised some of these questions, it obviously didn't have that much effect. I am going to answer these questions nicely now, but I think it is a bit of a strange thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u78	You are raising a question with Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u79	I indicated in my speech that I am going to go into this debate blankly and not yet for or against it. Here's what I'm wondering. If the Secretary of State was so opposed to this motion a few years ago and now says to us "you voted in favour at the time, so I am just standing here with this bill," what does the Secretary of State really think of this bill? Is he defending this only because he has been ordered to do so by the Labour Party? Or does he really think that the right of consent bill for parents with children in the appropriate education system is going to ensure that all these children will not be home in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u80	No, this bill isn't gonna do that. This bill is not going to solve all the problems surrounding appropriate education. This bill is not going to make all homeowners disappear like snow before the sun. It's gonna take a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u81	Finalizing, Mrs. Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u82	My question is what will solve this bill. The Secretary of State rightly refers to the fact that I said that I did not receive very many e-mails on the part of the development perspective. That's right. I get a lot of emails about other problems in appropriate education, but not about this part. I am therefore curious to see what exactly this bill will solve in the eyes of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u83	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u84	I'd like to explain. Almost all the questions were about that. It's my eyes a little improvement, you might say, to strengthen the position of parents. I should also like to comment on the occasion. They asked: what concrete signals were there in 2013? In 2013, appropriate education had not yet been introduced. So there were no concrete signals at the time, because then there was the old law. The signals haven't been there until the new law. At the same time, I have to say that a number of Members of Parliament have referred to the round table that has been held, for example, that I am also getting signals that the consultation between parents and school is not always smooth and that there are complaints from parents that they are being involved late in the conversation at school, or that they are not being taken seriously. I find it difficult to state precisely whether this is always a right of consent on the part of the act. I do not have very specific indications from the inspection that this is what it is about, but in cases where things are not going well, it is quite different from the fact that things are going well in many places; let us not forget that it is often in the communication between parents and schools. With this bill, we underline once again that parents have an important position in the implementation of their children's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u85	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is shameful that the PO Council and the VO Council state that they have not received any signals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u86	I would use other words, but that is often the case. So I don't think that's "ashamed." I do not have the letter here in front of me, but if they say that it never goes wrong at all in the discussions between the school and the parents, then I find that difficult to imagine. But in my opinion, the meaning of their letter is that they ask: is it the fact that there is no right of consent? I, too, must remain guilty of this question. We can't exactly pinpoint that it is. The bill represents a slight improvement in the position of parents in relation to the school, as Mr Van Meenen just pointed out. It's gonna be a slightly more similar position. I think that might help, but we shouldn't expect miracles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u87	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that all these parent organisations and all these parents are constantly calling for this point to be taken into consideration by all the consultative tables and saying that they would like to have an equal position? That's why you need this bill. The PO-Council and the VO-Council may disagree with this proposal. Fortunately, the Secretary of State agrees with this bill, but you cannot deny that attention is always being paid to it. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u88	Yeah, I noticed that, too. That's the reason for this bill in a nutshell. There was and is a very strong wish of the Chamber to supplement this on the original bill. That is actually the starting point for discussing this right now. So there is not a whole investigation or anything like that at the root of it. It's just an explicit wish from back then. Ms. Straus asked why did you send the bill to the Chamber despite the negative opinion of the Council of State? The Council of State has pinned a number of points. He asked: what exactly is this going to change and is it really strictly necessary? These are actually the same questions about usefulness and necessity that Mrs Siderius and Mr Bruins have asked. I have made the assessment that, given the wishes of the Chamber and the slight improvement in the position of parents as a result of the legislative proposal, it will in any case be no harm to do so, as long as we remain focused on any undesirable effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u89	I'd like to continue with the Secretary of State. The appropriate education Act agreed that there would be an evaluation. To what extent is this review actually assessing whether all these opportunities for parents to be right, not only the consultation aimed at agreement, but also the Disputes Committee and the further steps that parents can take?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u90	The law review concerns the whole law. This will certainly be taken into account. This is an essential point of the law. It follows from the obligation of care that schools have the responsibility to find a suitable place for the children, but they always do so in consultation with the parents. If they do not agree on this, then parents do not have the schools, but the parents have the opportunity to call on the dispute committee to do so. The number of cases, the types of cases and the judgments in those cases certainly also say something about the functioning of the system. These data will certainly come back in an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u91	Wouldn't it have been much better to get this information straight before introducing other measures to strengthen the position of parents into the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u92	That is a question of political weighting. You could have. I only note that a majority in the Chamber would prefer it to be amended as soon as possible. That too is a fact of life that we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u93	You're continuing your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u94	I'm going to the position of the parents in relation to schools and teachers. I told you, the purpose of the bill is to strengthen the role of parents. For me, it was important in the drafting of this bill that the starting point should always be that it should be workable in practice and that the interests of pupils should always be at the forefront, not of parents and teachers, but of pupils. I realize that this bill could lead to more time being spent between school and parents. Therefore, in the explanatory memorandum, the government has explicitly stated that it is always the school's professional responsibility that in the meantime the student does not notice in the classroom if no agreement has yet been reached. The school remains responsible for the quality of education and the school remains responsible for the quality of care, even if no agreement has been reached with the parents. That is, I think, also an answer to Mr Beertema's question: what if there is no agreement? I don't want kids to fall between shore and ship or get home. Therefore, the failure to reach agreement does not have suspensive effect either. The care for the child must continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u95	Before you proceed, I give Mrs Siderius the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u96	I understand from the Secretary of State that, even if there is no agreement on the part of the development perspective, the school will continue to carry out appropriate education. It may be that such a school has a conflict with the parent and is convinced that it must be done in this way. In that case, therefore, this school has no interest whatsoever in finding agreement with that parent, because as long as that agreement is not there, the school can simply continue with the proposed course. I also asked a question about this in my speech. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether this observation is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u97	It does not, in fact, make sense, but it also shows a very cynical view of the course of events. Why shouldn't it be in the school's interest to reach an agreement with a parent? That's the goal, isn't it? You want to agree with parents about taking good care of a child, don't you? You want parents to be happy, don't you? I know a lot of people who work in education who want nothing more than agreement with parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u98	I hope so, because that also seems to me to be the idea of agreement-oriented consultation. But later, of course, there may be situations that are already there where one does not come out and there is no agreement. I have been told that this bill would be a solution for this, and that is also what the explanatory statement says. After the introduction of this legislative proposal, the parent has the right to consent and there is still a need for further consultation. But if the school can just continue on the old path, what is strengthened about the position of the parent? That is actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u99	That is a valid point from Mrs Siderius: on what part does this improve the position of parents? With a right of consent, the pressure for the school is slightly greater to reach a compromise with the parents. It can be beneficial because the starting position is slightly more similar. A number of spokesmen have also pointed this out. Moreover, as long as the parents do not agree, the law of consent always obliges schools to continue to work on it and to continue talking to these parents until it has been with the Disputes Committee, and then the school must justify to the Disputes Committee why certain choices have been made. I think that this legislative proposal will make this obligation of motivation a little heavier than in the old situation. These are all small links that are just a little bit more in the direction of parental participation and involvement. Mr Bruins wondered whether the eye was not working properly and whether the crux was not sitting there. I think the eye goes well in a lot of places. Where there are signs that this consultation between parents and school is not good, it often means that parents are involved too late, that people are listening badly or that parents do not feel taken seriously. In these situations it is often not just about the formality of formal agreement, but there is often something not good in the process of communication. This bill is therefore not due to the lack of an eye, but to the firm desire of this Chamber to strengthen the position of parents. In the judgment of the Disputes Commission on the cases where it escalated and parents and schools really didn't come out, the problem was often that the school should have invested a little more in that consultation with parents. The Disputes Committee therefore often ruled in favour of the parents. So that shows once again how important this consultation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mrs Siderius asked: isn't investing in dialogue better than this bill? That's almost a question of conscience. A school that really invests in good consultation achieves more good care for children and agreement on it, even without consent, i.e. on the old ground, than a school that does it badly with this right of consent for parents. I just think that this legislative proposal with the right of assent could provide an additional incentive for schools and school boards to do a little better to take parents seriously at least where things are not going well. Mr Bruins asked for an additional explanation of the risk of legalisation. With a stronger and more formal position of parents, with the right of consent, you run the risk of parties digging in if the conversation doesn't go well. The school can do that, and of course parents can do that. And then parents who withdraw from their position will also rely on the formalities in this law. That is a real risk that we have to face. It is also one of the reasons why we have indicated on the administrative burden that this might lead to a little more cases for the Disputes Committee. However, in a number of other matters it may be possible to facilitate the discussion because there is more clarity about the position of both parties. Mrs Siderius asked: if there is no agreement, are schools allowed to carry out the care? I just answered that question with yes. Consultations shall never have suspensive effect. A number of spokesmen, including Mrs Siderius, asked why there was no right of assent on the whole development perspective. I believe that is what Mr Bruins asked for. More fundamentally, Mr Bishop made that point. The faint answer is: we are only doing so on the part of the House because it asked us to do so in the motion for a resolution that it voted for. The substantive answer is as follows. For the record, the part of action is part of the development perspective. So it's not two different things. One is part of the other. For example, the outflow profile, which is also part of the development perspective, is very much about a teacher's professional assessment of what a child can eventually achieve, possibly with extra help. I make the comparison with the school advice, for example. What is real to expect a child to be able to handle? Is a child capable of graduating or not? Are we working more towards labour market leadership? That kind of question. However, the part of the action is about something extra that you do for a child, which is closer to such a child and which is also more obvious at such a moment that the parents agree to it. There is also a greater need for agreement with and consent from parents. You can make good appointments: what are we doing here at school and what do we expect from the parents? That is why we have chosen to do so. I suspect that was also the reason for the petitioners of the motion. You could see it as a mutual arrangement, a contract, if both the school and the parents agree. That would be the ideal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u101	The Secretary of State stated in the written reply that a strengthened trading plan could lead to an update of the outflow profile. That is a point I am concerned about. What exactly is that supposed to mean? That's not really desirable, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u102	The development of children, of course, never stands still. It may very well be that a child's discharge profile changes. It may be that you come to the conclusion that some children with a little more care are able, for example, to obtain a diploma or to land at a higher or other level. That is the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u103	Finally, a question from Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u104	If I understand correctly, the development perspective is determined via ooto. Then there will be a trade plan with consent. That's what we're gonna do. Then the child will develop. That can actually be much more positive than expected. That is when the development perspective could be adjusted and a new trading plan could be put in place with the right of assent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u105	I believe that the law even requires the school to discuss and evaluate the development perspective with parents every year. If the discharge profile or part of the operation is adjusted, this also means that parental consent is required. So that can change. It's not necessarily a static thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u106	Interrupts actually go in half. So very briefly, Mr Bruins!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u107	I'm very grateful to you, Mr. Chairman. In other words, does the Secretary of State not mean that a trade plan that is in fact more negotiated by parents would lead to a higher development perspective before that trading plan is implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u108	I think that is very rare in practice. I do not think we should want that either, or at least be very vigilant about it. I do not rule out the possibility that this happens occasionally. That would be almost a kind of encouragement for parents to use incredibly high numbers in the part of action, because your child might end up at a different level. Mr Bruins just quoted a very good example of a case. I also know one such example from the time that I had a lot to do with practice schools in The Hague. Parents sometimes have against the best interests of their child in too high an expectation and say: if my child does not make it, there must be a lot of extra care. But it doesn't make a child like that happier. So there should be absolutely no incentive. I think I can reassure Mr Bruins, because that is not meant by that remark. Mr Bishop asked whether this bill would put more pressure on the institutions. Maybe so, but that's also kind of the point of this bill. Especially if schools do not yet fully and properly implement the consultation with parents, they need to invest a little extra in it. If then the resultant is that more often and better agreement is reached with parents, I think this can work enlighteningly at the same time. If parents are satisfied with caring for their child and are at the same level as the school and therefore agree that it is a good approach, I suspect that this is also very pleasant for the people in practice, the professionals, the teachers who have to work with it and those who care in schools. That makes the work much easier. Then I come to the administrative burden block. We must not ignore the fact that this legislative proposal also entails additional administrative burdens. Of course, such a thing is always annoying, but it is also a political choice. In particular, these costs arise from the fact that a part of the special education system becomes compulsory. That takes some extra work from schools. The calculations are behind the law. The time that is linked to that, I myself find something on the high side. We must always have such an external test. But the administrative burden will not be reduced. I think we should be realistic about that. Can we compensate the schools for that? No, I don't see that space. I often see that legislative proposals lead to a slightly higher administrative burden. Well, that's what we're all gonna choose. Moreover, I think that the overall budgets that schools have to deal with are very clear, but it is not a reduction in administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u109	I think 3 million euros is quite a lot of money. That's just money being taken from the lumpsum with this bill. So it's a quiet cut. And yes, that is indeed often done. If we add all that together, it'll tick. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of getting that 3 million from somewhere else instead of the schools? I believe that schools often have to deal with acute budgets and that it is sometimes very complicated to be able to offer appropriate education with current budgets. Yeah, and when some money goes off, that doesn't help, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u110	I don't see that space. I don't have a money machine in the Department of Education. The vast majority of the money on our budget is lump sum. I don't know where else to get it from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u111	Finalizing, Mrs. Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u112	Okay, then I'm going to table a motion on that later, hoping that my colleagues will be prepared not to take that 3 million away from the schools, from education and from the classroom. This will also have a strong impact on the considerations which will be discussed within my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u113	The development perspective is often too long and too extensive, was the remark made by Mrs Ypma. It is typical of the introduction of appropriate education that partnerships and schools are still very much looking for a way of working that runs smoothly. As little bureaucracy as possible in a smart way. How we can reduce bureaucracy is one of the things that we are working very hard on together with the PO Council and the VO Council. Then I come to questions that I would like to put under the category of 'other'. Mr Bruins asked a question about the dividing line between education and care. He asked if this bill would improve that. Honesty commands that this is not the case. We know the problems at the crossroads between the responsibility of educational institutions and that of care, youth care and nursing for matters such as personal care and guidance. There's often a grey area there. Then you see that some of the conversations are about that. You can expect things from a school. If a child has wet pants once, the school has to solve it, but if a child is still bullshit at the age of 8, you can't expect the school to solve that. That's right on one of those intersections where you need to see if you can arrange it with care from the outside. However, we are trying to prevent the hot potato from being pushed back and forth, especially in areas where we look at the responsibilities of appropriate education on the one hand and the responsibilities of municipalities and health professionals on the other. There are educational care consultants; a route that we follow together with the Ministry of VWS, who is responsible for that other leg. This way we can at least make sure that buttons are cut through. In concrete cases, we also see that it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u114	I seem to recall that the Secretary of State would organise or have deployed a task force precisely for the intersection where these two fields touch each other. I'd like to suggest that he include this point in that task force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u115	I think that is a very good suggestion and will report to the Chamber on the task force at the next progress report on appropriate education; it is an important point. A number of questions have been asked about the duty of care, most emphatically by Mrs Straus, who has tabled a motion on enforcement and said: if there is one thing clear in the law, it is that schools have a duty of care; they cannot run away from it. I totally agree with her. In the case of a notification, the inspection shall immediately contact to intervene and correct. In addition, the inspection will explore the possibilities for faster sanctioning in the event of circumvention of the duty of care. In the same progress report on appropriate education, I will inform the Chamber in more detail about the situation. Mrs Siderius asked about the implementation of her motion on the Wajong. The implementation of this is with my colleague from Social Affairs. I will ask if she can inform Mrs Siderius of the situation. Finally. Mrs Straus asked how we look at the functioning of the Disputes Committee. I am actually satisfied with the way in which the Committee on Disputes operates. Until this summer, the committee has ruled in about 80 cases. In my view, these were always qualitatively good and well-balanced judgements, with sometimes the school but more often the parents being put in the right place. A limited proportion, some 17 out of 80 cases, concerned disputes over the development perspective. Most of the cases concerned conflicts concerning admission and removal. I have come to the end of my answer, but see that there is another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u116	I thank the Secretary of State for giving some insight into the state of affairs surrounding the Disputes Committee. He has just given a generous undertaking that he will return to the sanctioning of the duty of care in the next progress report. Would he also like the Disputes Committee to come back a little more emphatically, in particular how satisfied parents are in the end about the complaints that have been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u117	I can say a little more about the kind of things in the progress report. To the specific satisfaction of parents, I really should do more research. For this, the progress report comes too early. However, it will be a very important subject of the legislative review, but you not only want to know who wins, but also want to be able to say something about the follow-up: does it then lead to a quick adjustment and its parents are happy with it? But December is too fast for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u118	Could the Secretary of State indicate in the progress report how he intends to do it later? In any case, we have ensured that this issue is explicitly taken into account in the legislative review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u119	That seems to me to be a very good thing; no point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u120	Maybe I totally missed it, but I can't imagine that. I asked for my motion on the severely limited students aged 18 to 20. That is something that has been under investigation for a very long time now, and I think we have been working on it for months, while the motion adopted calls for a legislative amendment. What is the difference with the motion we are now discussing, which also calls for a legislative amendment and which has not been investigated? I don't understand why my motion is being trained a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u121	I think the Secretary of State has taken that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u122	Yeah, I went into that. My colleague from Social Affairs is carrying out that motion. I'll see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u123	The Secretary of State doesn't have to ask what's going on, because I do. Because she's investigating it. The question is why it should be investigated when there is actually a list of names of children who have been removed from school because their parents could no longer afford it. The proposal before us does not seem to require any investigations, figures or reports at all. I think that's a difference. I'd like to know why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mrs Siderius has a point that there is a difference, but there are a lot of differences. Sometimes there are motions that can be carried out quickly. This happens to be one of them. Other motions call for more study. I am not in a position to say more about the reasons behind this and how long the investigation will take. I'm just not ready because it's not on my desk, it's on my colleague's. I hope, of course, that Mrs Siderius will receive an answer soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u125	It is quite complicated to ask the Secretary of State for answers on another file, but he has promised to ask the Secretary of State to inform you. I understood that the Secretary of State at the end of his reply was in the first term. Isn't that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u126	Well, there is another amendment tabled by Mrs Ypma. This concerns a slightly different subject, the participation in clusters 1 and 2 of appropriate education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u127	That is the amendment to item No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u128	Exactly. This is actually the follow-up to the commitment I made earlier. Maybe it's also a very quick way to get it into the law. I'll pass judgment on it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u129	This brings us to the end of the first term. I give the floor to Mrs Siderius for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr. Chairman. The SP has three motions on this bill. The first is about compensating for the administrative burden of 3 million. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide structural compensation to schools for the additional administrative burden of EUR 3 million resulting from the legislative proposal to establish the part of the development perspective after agreement with parents, so that schools do not have to cope with these additional costs within the lump sum payment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas so-called appropriate education would reduce bureaucracy in education;]] [[noting that schools and teachers have experienced an increase in bureaucracy since the introduction of appropriate education;]] [[noting that 116 special education schools are involved in six to ten partnerships, each using their own forms and procedures;]] [[calls on the Government to design uniform forms, declarations of admissibility and procedures for all partnerships and to implement them by 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34446-8]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-344446-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u131	My third motion concerns the motion I have just mentioned about the severely limited pupils. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the House of Representatives calls for legal arrangements to be made for multi-year cluster 3 students to be entitled to a Wajong benefit;]] [[calls on the Government not to initiate an investigation but to make provision whereby adult pupils registered in a cluster 3 educational institution can claim a Wajong benefit and carry out the motion already adopted in full,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-344446-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u132	We are not yet fully convinced of the bill. This is partly due to the answers of the Secretary of State. He says the school can just go on if the parents don't agree, but they have to keep talking. In my view, that is the current situation for appropriate education. It seems to me that the school and the parents should always be in dialogue. For us, the bureaucracy and administrative burdens associated with this legislative proposal are a huge burden. I am going to discuss the proposal and everything that has been exchanged here in the group, but I can say that it will weigh heavily whether or not the motions tabled are adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr. Chairman. It is still a little strange that we are introducing something because the way we have described it in the law is not working. It's still a little weird. Nevertheless, I have gained a little more understanding tonight for the thought behind this bill. At the same time, it is not a very big change. What reassured me in any case is that the Secretary of State said that negotiating out a demanding part of the action within the development perspective could not lead to pressure on the school to adopt a higher development perspective. That's not what this bill is for. That can't be the intention. It is included in the Acts and it is a very important part of what this bill should and should not mean. Well, at least that's not in there. In order to avoid legalisation, I think it is important to consider, for example, whether we can put the educational consultants into their power as an additional buffer. We must not allow consultation to lead to more judicialisation. Mrs Straus will be tabling a motion with my name on it. I think it is very important that the administrative burden should not increase. I understand the Secretary of State who says he doesn't have a banknote printing press in his basement. I'm just looking for it with the next motion in another corner. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the introduction of a mandatory part of action within the development perspective in special education (advanced) leads to an increase in the administrative burden on teachers;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that more administrative burdens lead to fewer contact hours in the classroom for teachers;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the (continue) special education, to reduce the administrative burden on teachers in a broad sense, even after the introduction of the compulsory part of the action, and to clarify the results towards the educational field and the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-344446-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u134	I'm taking everything I've heard tonight to my group. We had a preliminary discussion and then the pointer was really on the negative side. I take all the information from the debate fairly with me and I say to Mrs Ypma, who is also at the heart of this bill, that the pointer is now somewhere in the middle. So we have achieved something tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u135	Mr. Chairman. That is a good end to Mr Bruins' speech. In fact, it is bizarre that in 2016 we still have to make a plea for taking parents seriously, who should be seen as an equal partner. The situation in schools is right now: we come out together; the intentions are good, but I have more to say than you. I therefore very much agree with the Secretary of State, who gave four good arguments. Firstly, the starting position of parents and schools with this bill becomes more similar. Secondly, the bill promotes the achievement of the compromise. Thirdly, the obligation to state reasons for schools will be strengthened. Fourthly, the bill is an additional incentive to take parents seriously. That's why I'm happy to support the bill. The Labour Party is a strong supporter of dialogue. It's very annoying for parents when things don't go well with their child they love so much. Of course you have an opinion on that. After all, you know the child best and want to be taken seriously. Solutions that have parents' consent are the most successful, according to all the different studies. Children of parents involved perform significantly better. The inspection also indicates that it is very important to cooperate. Parents and school can achieve more for the child with cooperation. So position parents in that role. Ensure that parents are consulted and seen as equal partners. There was already a better position of parents under apprenticeship funding. Parents and children are vulnerable. It is our role as legislator to offer legal protection to those who are vulnerable. If there is a difference of opinion, parents and school should resolve this from an equal position as much as possible. I am also a spokesperson for youth care and in the care sector this has been around for a long time. There, before asking permission, a doctor must give the patient good information about the intended examination or treatment. The doctor's obligation to provide information and the consent requirement are a two-unit. This is also called "informed consent." Good communication with the patient is good for mutual trust and promotes the effect of therapy. It indicates what purpose it has and what risks and alternatives there are. We can learn from that in education! Let us also create an informed consent in education. We can promote this today with the legislative proposal on the right of assent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u136	Mr Rog waives his second term. That would mean that Mr Bishop would have the floor, but he would have the right to refrain from his second term. I call Mr Bertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answer. Instead of setting up an unnecessary law, I propose that Mr Bishop's words should be borne in mind, for the time being, that appropriate education be left alone. But oh, oh, oh, what do the go-getters of the PvdA, D66 and now also the CDA think of that incredibly difficult and what do these so-called friends of education always see as a plot of perfide schools acting against the student's interest in the intake or, like now, the eye. I think it's only a cynical way of looking. These champions of the parents, let's just call them a law that doesn't address a significant problem. Let us let the inspection do its job quietly if problems arise in conflicts around the eye. If necessary, we will do so with a new, clear inspection framework that will enable the inspection to be carried out. This will lead to much less bureaucracy than this change of law. In a few cases, the inspection calls the school to order. If structural problems do occur, this is reported to us. Let's see if it comes to this. Mr Van Meenen said that we make laws for those cases where things go wrong. I think that we in this overregulated country are very quick to think that all kinds of things will go wrong. If I drive those few kilometers from my house to the Lower House, I'll come across every 100 meters of traffic lights and dozens of brake thresholds. That is often totally unnecessary and this change of law is just as unnecessary; it comes from the mind of law fetishists. I just wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u138	Mr. Chairman. We of the VVD also think it is important that parents and school come together when children need extra support, but each from their own responsibility. Sometimes it doesn't go well. As far as we are concerned, we are particularly committed to strengthening the dialogue. I've prepared a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the failure to comply with the duty of care by schools in the context of appropriate education has the continued attention of the Chamber;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for disagreement between parents and the school on the implementation of the part of the action to lead to deadlocks;]] [[noting that there are independent educational consultants who can be involved when no agreement is reached between parents and school;]] [[Considers that there should be strict action by the education inspection where a school is structurally ignoring a consultation based on consensus;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the educational consultants to report regularly to the inspection when schools are structuralally failing to consult on the basis of consensus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Straus, Mr Bruins and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-344446-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u139	Then, in making the law appropriate education, our predecessors and even some of us were consciously chosen at that time to enter into the agreement-oriented consultation for parents, and therefore not the right of consent. From what we have shared today, there is a lot of individual casuism. But as far as I am concerned, there is no common thread to discover why a change is needed specifically on this point. That is why I have tabled my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ypma motion (31467, No. 95) called on the government to prepare a legislative proposal to ensure that the part of the development perspective is adopted after agreement with parents;]] [[Whereas the appropriate education Act entered into force in the school year 2014-2015, the Ypma motion has already been submitted before the adoption of the law and the review of the law will be completed by 2020;]] [[noting that the Ypma motion is currently premature because no in-depth evaluation has been carried out;]] [[calls on the Government to keep the legislative proposal and to include it in the evaluation of appropriate education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Straus and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-344446-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State. We know his feelings about this law. In any event, he did not put it under any circumstances during the tabling of the motion. Nevertheless, he has defended this bill in an adequate way today, and I would almost say that he has defended it in a sporty way. Thank you again for that. The main reason why I am standing here is because of that. If we disagree, I say so too, but in this case it may also be said. I'm going to go into what Mrs Straus said. She proposes to wait until 2020 to see if it is really necessary to give parents rights. Even if only one child in the Netherlands were caught up in misdemeanour, we would still be doing the right thing to give this right to the parents. In any case, that child cannot wait until 2020 to receive better education than it is currently receiving. I do not think it is so strong if you are merely defending the argument that the legislator at the time intended to set up only the eye and not the right of assent. I think we need to stay here all the time to make things better. I also hear the VVD constantly saying: from good to better. That also applies to this law, although I do not think it is very good, but there may be more improvements. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Beertema that I do not feel directly addressed by his qualification as a 'law fetishist'. I just came to The Hague to have less laws. Fortunately, we've been able to tear down a lot of junk from Rutte I's time. But sometimes it can't be any different, and then it has to be. However, that is not fetishism, but action in the interests of children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u141	We have come to the end of the second term of the Chamber. The Secretary of State states that he will need a moment before he can respond in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u142	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the second time and an opinion on the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u143	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I think I can confine myself to the latter. I'll start with the motion in part No. 8 by Mrs Siderius, in which she asks for compensation for the 3 million additional administrative burdens. This is an uncovered check. I'd be happy to look at compensation, but then this house should cover it. This has to be financed, for example, from the VVE (pre-school and early school education), from the municipal education deficit policy, from the public service broadcasting or from science. That's how we usually do it. I would like to say that when the Education budget is being discussed, please submit an amendment. I therefore advise against this motion. I would like to say straight away that I will not carry it out if it is adopted either. In the motion in part No. 9 Mrs Siderius asks me to come up with uniform forms to be implemented by 1 January for all the partnerships. You can't do that last one. That requires a legal basis. That needs to be regulated by law, and that therefore requires a legislative proposal. I also think that this is not appropriate to the system of appropriate education, in which we have invested a number of these responsibilities in the partnerships. Perhaps I can respond somewhat to Mrs Siderius. We are going to look at how we can work together with the PO Council and partnerships towards voluntary standardisation. Compare that with what the VNG does, which makes formats for many regulations. It is always the autonomy of the municipality to make its own regulation. It may also differ from a format or add some specific things to it, but in a gentle way some control is given with tools like this kind of formats. I therefore advise against the motion, but perhaps Mrs Siderius can withdraw it with this commitment. The motion in part No. 10 doesn't come under my wallet. This is with my colleague from Social Affairs. I can't see the consequences of this at all. For that reason alone, I advise against the motion. Mr Bruins' motion and Mrs Ypma's motion for a resolution In relation to administrative burdens, 11 calls on us to try to reduce administrative burdens elsewhere in special education. As if we didn't already! If there is any possibility of reducing administrative burdens, we will do so. In fact, we set up a whole project. The adoption of this motion will not lead us to do anything else. This motion is really very unnecessary. I'd almost say it looks like a cleanse of conscience. If you are really in favour of this law, you accept the consequence that the administrative burden becomes a little more. That's a fact of life. It happens all the time. We also sometimes abolish laws, which reduces the administrative burden. But this motion really doesn't add anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u144	Actually, I hear "support policy" and "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u145	We have also recently agreed with the Committee on Education on advice on motions for resolutions. In doing so, the committee has challenged me and the Minister to be keen on the advice. This motion really adds nothing; hence my judgment. The Strauss c.s. motion in piece No. 12 is about the use of educational consultants. I understand very well what Mrs Straus wants. That is noble, but I think it would be dangerous for us to give effect to the motion. This puts educational consultants in a very annoying position: they become both mediators and police officers. That shouldn't happen. They must always act in the interests of the student. This should sometimes be possible in confidence or from an independent position. If a school does things that are not acceptable, they will, of course, ring the bell at the inspection. However, I do not think it is their role to report structurally to the inspection. That really leads to rolling mix. For that reason, I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u146	The Secretary of State says that they may become less independent, but they do have tremendously valuable information about how schools deal with this agreement-oriented consultation and how you can strengthen that consultation. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State a question back: how can we ensure that this information does come out while the educational consultants remain as neutral as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u147	That is a valid point, but there are also other forms. Maybe I can make a suggestion. We have been working with appropriate education for two years now. In the meantime, educational consultants have seen a lot of cases and can often contribute to them. There's no harm in having a conference and asking these experts: what have you come across, you see bottlenecks, you see bumps, do you have good lessons that schools can take in the conversation with parents to make it smoother? That is a slightly less repressive and reporting role than Mrs Straus proposes, but perhaps we will achieve the same goal and result. If I make this commitment in this debate, it might be enough for her to withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u148	I will enter into consultation with the other applicants whether we change the operative part or, if necessary, proceed to detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u149	Then you'll come back to that. Mr Bruins will return to the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u150	I'm pulling my motion to part No. 11 in. I expect us to have an excellent report on how administrative burdens are reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u151	Since the Bruins/Ypma motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u152	I'm sure I can agree to that last one. Mr Bruins will be served before the end of the year. The Strauss c.s. motion in piece No. 13 is about political weighting. There was a political weighting to avoid waiting for the evaluation and, even more importantly, not to wait for the law to come into force. This motion says: do so and take it with you in the evaluation. I don't think it's fair to say that I'm leaving the judgment to the Chamber. The Chamber has given me an order and I am standing here with a bill. In addition to that, I would advise against this motion. However, if the Chamber comes to a different view and supports this motion, then you must be quick and hold the vote on the bill. If this motion is adopted, it will be very difficult for me to implement it because it will probably be put to the vote five minutes later. I'm dissuading the motion. Should they succeed, you should intervene in the votes yourself. Otherwise, I'm gonna have a problem with you because I didn't do what you asked me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u153	That is indeed very interesting, if we vote on the legislative proposal first and then on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-7.u154	I thank the Secretary of State for his input, I thank Members for their presence and input and I thank the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed the debate in a different way. The votes on the amendment, the bill and the motions will take place after the autumn recess.
