ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Good to see all colleagues again and to look back on the last summer, in which a lot has happened. In the week of the failed army coup, I visited Turkey as part of the EU/Turkey deal. I wasn't back two days ago, or that coup took place. In Turkey, too, the army should not draw power. The Netherlands, together with other European countries, has rightly strongly condemned the coup. However, the same strong and unanimous condemnation was lacking with regard to the subsequent purifications. With thousands of judges, policemen, teachers and other critics at the same time, they have been dismissed or arrested without pardon. The foundations of Turkish democracy and the rule of law have already been undermined under Erdogan and now we see them disappear. In the Netherlands, too, Turkey is trying to undermine our rule of law by launching click lines, putting pressure on Dutch mayors and blackmailing organisations and individuals through the terrorist list. This without any evidence. Ankara's long arm creates threats in this way, splits in the Turkish-Dutch community, avoiding schools, threatening lawyers and boycotting shops and businesses. That is simply unacceptable. That is why I come to the cabinet to ask the following questions. Is the cabinet still prepared to condemn the cleansing here in the Chamber? Can the Minister confirm that the efforts made by the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and other members of the cabinet to reduce Turkey's interference in the Netherlands have unfortunately had little effect so far? Is the cabinet prepared to denounce Turkish interference in Ankara with other EU Member States? What means does the Prime Minister have left to counter Turkish interference in the Netherlands? How will the Prime Minister protect the safety of children, businessmen and believers of Turkish origin in the Netherlands from hateful Erdogan supporters in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has indeed condemned the coup attempt. Minister Koenders was even the first to be heard. At the same time, however, we have also said in the talks between the Foreign Minister and the Foreign Minister of Turkey and myself and my colleague for Economic Affairs that we believe that in the aftermath of the coup, the rule of law should stand proudly and that measures should be taken within that rule of law. Mr Koenders has done more: he has called for the Council of Europe to visit Turkey, whatever has happened. We would like this to result in concrete cooperation between Turkey and the Council of Europe, in order to ensure that the measures taken by Turkey fit within the framework of the ECHR. We therefore consider it important that the Anti-Torture Committee should pay a visit. As Mr Voordewind said, the coup attempt and its aftermath have led to tensions in the Netherlands, particularly within the Turkish-Dutch community. The cabinet of course rejects direct influence of Turkey in Dutch domestic affairs. Dutch citizens make the choices they want to make. We have sent this message to Ankara on several occasions; this was done last weekend to the Minister for European Affairs. We find it unacceptable that groups of Dutch should be set up against each other, because freedom and tolerance are fundamental European values that we hold high. Are there differences in insight? It's possible. Then we enter into a respectful dialogue with each other. If criminal offences are committed and they are reported, we will of course also carry out criminal investigations and, if necessary, prosecute them. This fits within the rule of law that is the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	I have heard a clear condemnation of the coup, but I have not heard a clear condemnation of the subsequent purges, which have led to the real wavering of the rule of law. I would like to hear from this cabinet that everything that is happening in Turkey is affecting the rule of law there. I'd like to hear that the cabinet is taking a break from that. The cabinet quite rightly renounces the interference in the Netherlands. The question is, however, whether this interference continues. So far, the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister have called Erdogan and told him to stop. I believe that a day after the Prime Minister's return, the so-called terrorist list was announced in the Netherlands. Is the cabinet therefore prepared to take further steps with the aim of letting the Turkish government know that this interference in Dutch society must stop, for example by sending a signal in the form of a recall to the Netherlands of the Dutch ambassador for consultation? Perhaps this could lead to the recall of the Turkish ambassador from the Netherlands to Ankara. After all, more needs to be done to stop this interference. My second question is what the cabinet does with the reports about an American lawyer who wants to investigate the Gülen movement in the Netherlands on behalf of the Turkish government. Is the cabinet aware of that? If so, what will the cabinet do about it? And what's it gonna do to those click lines on social media that threaten the alleged Gülen followers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	As Mr Voordewind says, we have consistently opposed interference, stigmatisation and intimidation in the Netherlands in every form. We do not want to export the problems in Turkey to the Netherlands. The Dutch ambassador can make himself more useful by conveying the messages of the Dutch government in Ankara. It is more useful that he is there instead of in the Netherlands, so he will be. The cabinet also remains actively in dialogue with the Turkish Government if it considers this to be appropriate. Sometime next week there will be a Cabinet letter on this issue in which Mr Voordewind's last question could be answered. This can be addressed in all precision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	Of course it is useful to keep the contacts going. There will be an entire embassy city in Ankara. However, the Minister also knows that if you recall an ambassador from a country, this really is a diplomatic and political signal that we are not served by this kind of interference in Dutch society and that this interference really leads to great tensions here. I urge this cabinet to take more measures than making a phone call or making a visit. When we saw both Foreign Ministers in that press conference, the images spoke for themselves. I look forward to the letter and hope that several measures will be announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am pleased that the Dutch cabinet and all parties from left to right after years are trying to shake off Ankara's long arm. Words alone are no longer enough. There's no action here. How is it possible that our ministers are flying to Turkey, that the Prime Minister is calling Erdogan and that at the same time a kind of diplomatic middle finger is being raised to the Netherlands? The next question from the Christian Union is therefore very justified: what will be the next step of our government to make it clear that this must stop? Because it goes on: lists are published. The consul interferes in internal affairs, people are threatened and there are always new organisations in the Netherlands that carry out Ankara's missions. When will the Dutch government stop working with and alliances of organisations such as Diyanet, which are nothing but an extension of Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is clear that the cabinet strongly dislikes the circulation of lists in any form whatsoever and regardless of who is on them. That causes unrest and tension in a lot of people. We do not want that here in the Netherlands. At the moment, we have no indication that the article by the state press office Anadolu on the Gülenschoolen is the list that Mrs Karabulut is probably referring to at the instruction of the Turkish State. Does that make the cabinet less upset about the list? No, of course we're against that kind of stigmatization, although that journalist reports that he has all the information from public sources. For the answer to the second question, I refer Mrs Karabulut to the letter of the Chamber for the sake of completeness. The question is clear. The cabinet will come back and the letter will be here. I think it would be wise to address this issue in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	I thought it was very sensible that the Foreign Minister should be the first to let the Turkish Government know that we were appalled about the coup. The government has been to Istanbul to strengthen our dismay. Political courage has been shown. Less courage has been shown by the government in a motion by Mrs Karabulut and the VVD member Potters. It called on the cabinet to investigate precisely this long arm of Ankara a year ago. We have often had to call for this, even at the beginning of this summer. Through this minister I ask Minister Asscher, who I believe is about, whether this investigation has finally begun. Can we at least see a result of that before Christmas? I think that the evidence is piling up, and the researchers should have it easy in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	I suggest that the cabinet responds to the motion in the aforementioned letter. We know the motion. I think it would be a good idea if that letter, including Mr Asscher, could deal with the way in which we understood this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	In response to the coup, human rights in Turkey have been put under further pressure. I ask the Minister to give an opinion on this. I would also like to know whether the Dutch Government is maintaining the requirement that anti-terrorism laws, under which journalists, writers, opinion-makers and others are detained and imprisoned, should change before visa-free travel from Turkey to Europe can occur. That demand must be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	It is clear that, given the situation, it was up to the cabinet to condemn the coup. In Turkey, everyone, from left to right, was very shocked by that coup and therefore very upset. At the same time, in all the talks, we have constantly stressed to the Prime Minister, Minister Koenders and myself that human rights must be respected and operated within the framework of the rule of law in the aftermath of that coup. With regard to Mr Van Bommel's second question, it is good to specify in the letter how the talks are going and what is the commitment of the Netherlands and the other EU Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	It is clear that a military coup must be totally rejected. That is what my group is doing, but what happened after that coup is out of bounds. The restriction of freedom of the press and freedom of opinion and the violation of human rights have reached such a level that it should be a turning point in foreign policy relations with Turkey. Does the Minister agree with me? Does she agree with me that from now on a different attitude of the Dutch Government would be clearly appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	We have often debated developments in Turkey here, including the coup. I think I remember saying in an earlier debate with Mr Grashoff that the relationship between Turkey and the Netherlands is open and direct. That means we're also critical. Unfortunately, in recent months, in the aftermath of the coup, reasons have been added to continue this critical dialogue. It is not for nothing that Mr Koenders has asked the Council of Europe to visit Turkey and to work with Turkey to ensure that the rule of law stands proudly. So it is true that the conversation I had a few weeks ago with my colleague, the Minister of Economic Affairs, had a different key to the conversation I had with him in the weeks before. We have indeed condemned the coup, but we have also expressed our concerns about the current situation in Turkey. We will continue to engage in this dialogue. This is not only true for the Netherlands, because this is of course shared more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	A second supplementary question, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	The Minister continues to express himself in terms of dialogue. Let me be honest: my group has been in complete agreement for a long time. We have often said that there was a certain amount of the benefit of the doubt. That's out of the question. There is no longer the benefit of the doubt. It's crystal clear what's happening here. We are talking about the introduction of a dictatorship. That's another situation. In my opinion, this calls for a different attitude, which calls for clear positions and possible measures and sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	Experience shows that very little usually changes when the conversation stops and stops. We believe it is important to be and remain in dialogue with the Turkish Government. This dialogue is, of course, more critical than it was a few months ago in view of the events there and here. I understand that it is somewhat unsatisfactory, but it might be good to refer to the letter that the cabinet will send to the Chamber on this point too. We will certainly explain that position further in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	We've just commemorated some horrible attacks here. A bomb also went off at the Turkish parliament. I think it is very good that we all make it clear that it is good that this military coup has been averted. We should not want a military dictatorship in Turkey, but we should not want a democratic dictatorship. We can see it's really going the wrong way right now. The opposition calls for talks on Turkey's position within the Council of Europe, on ensuring the rule of law and on Turkey's position vis-à-vis Europe as a candidate country of the European Union. Does the Minister agree with me that it is important to enter into these talks? Part of this is the starting point that you do not address citizens in other countries in the way they are now addressed by the Turkish government. That is not how you address your own citizens, and that is certainly not how you address citizens in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	My answer to that is yes. We have always stated in the conversation that, in our opinion, it is not acceptable that what is happening in Turkey should be exported to the Netherlands. Dutch citizens are Dutch citizens. There are tensions in the Turkish community, but I fully agree with Mrs Maij that this naturally remains the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u19	Last week, Prime Minister Rutte said at the weekly press conference that he had no evidence of Turkish interference in the Netherlands with regard to this issue. That is, of course, a completely unlikely story. No one takes Rutte's story seriously, no one really takes it seriously. Think of the letter from the Turkish consul to Mayor Aboutaleb. Think of the terrorist list published by the Turkish state press office. There's plenty of clues. My group is tired of it. Something really needs to be done; we need to move on. Are this minister and this cabinet prepared to bang the Turkish ambassador out of the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u20	As I said before, we are committed to a very critical conversation with the Turks. This is partly due to the diplomatic representation of Turkey in the Netherlands. It's wise to keep having that conversation. I clearly heard the harsh condemnation that Mr Bontes expressed. The Dutch cabinet shares it. We shall go into this in more detail in the letter "One more apology for the referral'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr Bontes, your second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u22	There is no strong condemnation of the Dutch Government at all. Last week, our Prime Minister said that he has no evidence of Turkish interference. That's a completely ridiculous story. Does the Minister realize that with this lame story and these weak knees, she's only making things worse and that Erdogan only listens to hard language and only understands it? Will the Minister once again consider expelling the Turkish ambassador and realizing that a much harder approach by dictator and sultan Erdogan is needed instead of this lame story?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u23	There's nothing wrong with my knees. The Prime Minister, Minister Koenders and myself have had sharp and critical talks with our Turkish colleagues. Frankly, that is exactly what Mr Bontes says. In that we have passed all the events and made it clear that we do not want and will not accept any export of the Turkish conflict to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u24	Unfortunately, it is the practice that elements have been transferred to the Netherlands, as people feel threatened in the Netherlands. 175 people have reported or reported. I would also like to hear from the cabinet today that these people can go to the police, that it will go beyond the only arrest we have now and that the police will really pay attention and care to it, so that people can go there with their story and get the protection they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u25	I believe that in my first answer to Mr Voordewind's question I did not refer to the number of declarations. Mrs Van Toorenburg, me and the cabinet are on the same page. The Netherlands is a rule of law. One can always report it here. There is a serious follow-up to this. One person has now been arrested. We have the separation of powers here. I cannot promise that more people will be arrested, as Mrs Van Toorenburg will understand, but it is clear that Mr Van der Steur and the police are extremely alert. Everyone must feel free and safe.That's also the case in the Netherlands to report if one somehow feels threatened by anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u26	I was in Amsterdam last Wednesday to talk to people who feel threatened. Those were entrepreneurs and people from schools, such as teachers and parents who felt pressured to take their child out of school. There were stories of 8-year-old children who were called terrorists. Meanwhile, what the cabinet does is make a phone call, write a letter to the Chamber and pay a visit, with our foreign minister standing next to his colleague, who simply tells him not to interfere. I am trying to see that in the light of what the Minister says, namely 'this is unacceptable'. That's not how it looks. I have two questions. First of all... How is the cabinet going to ensure that all these people, even if they do not report, can count on protection? Second. What is the government's plan to ensure that all those organisations with Turkish backgrounds active here in the Netherlands are involved in the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u27	The letter I just announced isn't just any letter. It will address the concerns about people's safety. Of course it is terrible when children are addressed in that way. That's not how we do it. You have to treat each other with respect. I would also like to say the following. Each may reflect in his own way what the cabinet has done. That's how it's supposed to be in a democracy. At the same time, I do not think that the efforts, including those of Mr Dekker, but also of other colleagues, are being fully justified in order to prevent the export of the conflict from Turkey to the Netherlands and, where it does, to ensure that we can assist people. We are taking action, but we are also thinking beyond the measures we have now taken. They will undoubtedly be reflected in the letter of Parliament which will be sent to the Chamber in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u28	At the solemn commemoration we have just had in this Chamber of the terrible terrorist attack in Nice, the elephant in the Chamber, namely the leading role of Islam, could not be appointed. It doesn't fit in with a memorial; I understand that. Now that this Question Time is about what has happened in Turkey and how it is going to work in the Netherlands, it is, of course, possible and necessary to appoint the leading role of Islam. I will. Whether it is Mr Gülen or Mr Erdogan, they are both seeking to increase the grip of Islam on their land and on the world. As it happens, Mr Erdogan has now turned out to be the upper party. He's on the buttons in Ankara now. He's also about a ministry that's about religion Islam. That ministry is called Diyanet and also has an office in our country, not to mention the Peace Palace. Diyanet interferes with everything that happens in mosques in the Netherlands and tries to influence that as much as possible; Diyanet has a grip on that. That's gotta stop now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u29	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u30	I ask the Minister if the government is willing to just kick that Diyanet out of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u31	Again, it is clear that the cabinet is concerned about how people in the Dutch-Turkish community are making life difficult for each other. Let me put it this way, because that is how we experience it in everyday practice. It is also clear that we do not want that. I have also said that the cabinet will shortly be presenting a letter of office on specific measures which the cabinet considers appropriate. I have heard the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u32	The letter of inquiry to which I believe the Minister referred six times in this Question Time should, of course, have been there a long time ago. The coup d'état in Turkey took place not yesterday or last week, but a long time ago. Everything that happened after that, we were able to see and hear. So I don't understand why that letter isn't there. I ask the Minister to just tell us that that letter will be sent to the Chamber within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u33	The cabinet attaches importance to ensuring that the information provision to the Lower House is as up-to-date and accurate as possible. In this letter, which will shortly be published, we will not only describe the current situation and any measures we propose, but will also explain what has happened in recent months. The room is now back from recess. I hear here and there that there is a need for a debate with the government on this. We are, of course, very willing to do so. That letter can then be commented on and discussed in detail, as is customary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u34	Can the Minister also indicate the deadline for that letter to be sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u35	In the short term, I can therefore imagine that will happen this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u36	On 15 July, something terrible happened in Ankara, in Istanbul, in Turkey. By the tone of this debate you would almost forget that there has been an attack on democracy, that fighter planes have flown low above a city and that a bomb has been thrown on parliament. It is an illusion to think that this has no effect on people who live here in the Netherlands. That's point one. I would call on the cabinet to act de-escalatingly in the current tensions. I now feel and taste in the Chamber a form of escalation that is not good for the Netherlands. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to take de-escalating action. I would like to make it quite clear once again about these tensions that intimidation, violence and threats are not acceptable, but I would also like to ask the Minister whether she has any signals or whether she is aware that people involved in the military coup attempt in Turkey are currently on Dutch territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u37	In response to the events in Turkey and their repercussions here, especially in the Dutch-Turkish community, the cabinet has, of course, been talking to people. At the same time, it is clear that people here in the Netherlands are free to report within the framework of the rule of law. So we would like the Turkish-Dutch community to speak with respect about the differences that seem to exist. Furthermore, I assume that we will continue to be consulted in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u38	This de-escalating attitude is not only necessary in view of the tensions in the Turkish-Dutch community. It is also necessary in the current relations between our country, the Netherlands, and Turkey. I would ask the Minister to continue with a de-escalating attitude on this point as well. My second question was: do you have any signals that there are currently people on Dutch territory who have been involved in the coup attempt in Turkey or who are complicit in it? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u39	In view of the events in Turkey, the discussion with the Turkish authorities, with the Turkish colleagues of course, was initially about the condemnation of the coup, but I have just said that we are also having a critical, open and constructive discussion with the Turks about this. What kind of qualification you want to give to that, I'll leave it to everyone. We're having critical conversations. It is important that it discusses what needs to be discussed in the light of the Dutch Government.
