ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group believes that action must be taken against black savers who mislead the tax authorities. The penalties may go up, the fines may go up and better information should be exchanged with tax havens to make sure you can't park your money anywhere and the Dutch tax authorities won't find out. In order to find out, the IRS can also use a tipster. That's very wise. Yesterday, however, it appeared in the reportage of Nieuwsuur that this tipper had received a contract. I've got that contract right here. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if this is the original contract. I'll add the contract to the Acts. In this original contract, the tipper undertakes to testify before the court when called upon to do so. The Tax Administration undertakes not to disclose the name just like that, but cannot guarantee confidentiality. There have been trials. In it it became clear that the judge, the court in Arnhem, felt that the tipster should testify in court. He didn't testify because the state said he didn't. One of the witnesses, a tax officer, testified under oath that anonymity was one of the conditions for the conclusion of the agreement. However, the agreement shows a completely different picture. At the Hoge Raad, the highest judicial authority in the Netherlands, there is therefore the rule that it can be assumed that the Tax Administration has promised secrecy. However, the IRS hadn't promised it. This agreement was signed by the national attorney and the Director-General of the Tax Administration, who also followed these procedures. I have some questions. Is this fixing agreement correct? Has this been reported to the judge? Has the State misled the judges, as Professor Bovend'Eert says? Will the Secretary of State respond to the letter from the President of the Court in Arnhem, who writes that this is shocking? I will add this letter to the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u3	I assume there is no objection to both documents being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u4	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. For the Tax Administration, it is important to say that Mr Omtzigt said that even though tipsters are not made public. This is also a firm policy of the Tax Administration and is also enshrined in the agreement as such. That is also because the threat to tippers is often very real. It even happens that people who are not a tipster at all and have not contributed to it at all ask the Tax Administration to tell them, for heaven's sake, that they are not the tipster because they are threatened. That is a very serious matter. The tipster should be able to remain anonymous. In making such agreements, I believe that the former Secretary of State De Jager has already spoken publicly about these agreements. After all, things can leak out or procedural errors can be made. In this particular case, there wasn't much clarity about the judge's position on whether the Supreme Court or you could ever get a case done without public access. So the second point is that that agreement had to make it clear that the ultimate guarantee did not exist. Thirdly, the choice has been made not to completely close the door to a testimony for the time being. Again, even then, it was unknown whether a case could ever be won without testimony. Therefore, in consultation with the tipster, it was chosen not to completely close that door. That's the situation. I should also like to say this once again this morning, since I have not heard any statements from me, my predecessors, officials or the national attorney who contradicts this. I don't know any statements about an absolute guarantee from the Tax Administration. However, it is stressed that confidentiality is taken very seriously. That also makes sense, because that is within the reasonable promise, just as yesterday was also heard in the words of Secretary of State De Jager. He has reported that very nuanced and approximately in accordance with the agreement. Did that mislead the judge? It is ultimate for the Tax Administration itself to determine what information it adds publicly to the file. This is not, of course, a question of openness, but of making it public in the procedure. It is also up to the judge to decide how to deal with any deleted passages. This is what was chosen, as demonstrated by yesterday's broadcast of two passages, namely those relating to callability and those relating to the guarantee. The confidentiality room that looked at it after that got these passages unpainted. I should also like to add this point before Mr Omtzigt in an interim judgment to the conclusion that the passages should actually be made public. It is then up to the Tax Administration itself to decide whether to disclose that information in that procedure. That didn't happen back then. The Tax Administration may choose to do so, but it risks, of course, reducing the chances of success of that case. However, that risk has been taken. Next, the court of Arnhem took note of the road-painted passages, of the fact that passages had been wiped out and of the interim judgment of the confidentiality chamber. Nevertheless, it concluded that the attacks could continue. We all know that the court of Arnhem-Leeuwarden gave a different view through all sorts of channels, but the Supreme Court once again agreed and finally referred it back to the court of Den Bosch in cassation. In doing so, he did not make the ruling depend on the fact that passages had been painted away and there was an interim judgment of the confidentiality chamber. It is, of course, ultimate for the judge himself to decide whether he or she can have peace with painted passages and whether he or she has sufficient information to make a judgment. The judge held that there was sufficient ground to accept this and to refer it back to the court of Den Bosch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State needs a lot of words, but I was struck by one of his sentences. That is the sentence: it is ultimate in the Tax Administration which information it adds to the file. No, when the Tax Administration brings a file with a taxable person to court, it adds the whole file. Then there can be talk of secrecy, but then she is not going to keep that information away. I would like an opinion from the Secretary of State on a judge who says he has been misled and a professor who says the State has misled the judges. Can we now have a reaction to that, or else in writing this week? The Supreme Court states in its judgment in the assessment of the pleas in law: in the context of the agreement concluded with the Tipper, the Tax Administration has an obligation not to disclose the identity of the Tipper. That is therefore factually incorrect, because that was not mandatory. The Supreme Court had an obligation to do so, but could have disclosed the identity if necessary. The Tax Administration has been given these words and has deliberately chosen not to correct them, knowing that it was wrong. The state's attorney and the Director General of the Tax Administration conducted this case. They also concluded the fixing agreement, so they knew very well what was in it. Why hasn't it been corrected? Does the Secretary of State find that reprehensible or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u7	In this procedure, it is ultimately up to the Tax Administration to complete the file and remove all paint, or to withdraw the case, or to continue the case with paint. In the latter case, the chances of success are of course lower. I am not just giving this answer to Mr Omtzig, but at the same time I admit that I am putting it on paper. The dossier is so complex that it takes me a little too far to deal with it in Question Time within a few minutes. I propose that I follow Mr Omtzigt's suggestion and write that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u8	I thank the Secretary of State for the letter we're about to receive from him. I would also like to comment on the letter from the President of the Court of Arnhem-Leeuwarden, particularly on point 2.1.1 of the judgment and on the words of the professor; preferably this week. We will ask a number of additional questions in this committee, because the Tax Administration, and any other public authority, must be complete and correct in court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u9	If I sum up correctly, Mr Omtzig asks me to give two reactions to judgments of others. With the first wording, it seemed as if he was asking for a judgment from the court, but I assume he is asking me for a response to those two judgments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u10	Yes, I mean your judgment on the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u11	That's fine, because that's a logical part of the promised letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u12	I understand very well that the IRS is trying to protect the anonymity of tippers. But this country is a rule of law, and even if you sue against the government, you must be able to assume that all relevant information lies with a judge. I am shocked by the State Secretary's reply: it is up to the Tax Office. I think that the Secretary of State is very lightly going over the facts: a judge says he is shocked; a professor says that the Supreme Court has been misled; the Supreme Court itself considers in the judgment that anonymity has been promised and the passages that relate it have been removed. Does the Secretary of State agree with D66 that this was unfortunate and that the painting away was not necessary, so that the judge, as it should be in this country, can just judge on the basis of all relevant information?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u13	With that, we come to the question: why did it actually go away? This issue was briefly addressed in the parliamentary questions that my colleague predecessor, Mr Weekers, answered in 2012 and is about scaring off new tipsters. The Tax Administration has chosen to remove the passage, which states that no guarantee can be given: not because it should not be visible to the court, but because otherwise it could possibly come out in the open and thereby deter new tipsters. There is indeed a State interest, even a financial interest. It is therefore important to make agreements with tippers about this. If this is going to lead a life of its own and every tipster thinks that his identity will come out in the open without any interference, it will scare off new tipsters. The same applies to callability. There are cases where you could choose to exclude the callability in advance. That's possible, but then you'll have to withdraw the case at some point. Here too, if this fact, that someone can be summoned, is going to live their own life, that can scare off new tipsters. Those two road paint decisions were made by the inspector at the time. Those decisions have nothing to do with providing information to the courts. Here is the balance that, without a coating, the chances of success of such a case might be greater, but that at the same time new tipsters can be deterred. That's the way the balance is made. No matter how you make the trade-off, these are valid arguments. Because we don't want to scare off tippers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u14	That you have to weigh your interests, that this can work differently and that you can judge politically differently, is okay. However, we all agree that what is said in law must be true. That's raised some questions. According to reports, one of the FIOD officials under oath said that anonymity was based on the civil law agreement and anonymity was one of the conditions for the conclusion of the agreement. However, this does not seem to be consistent with what has been announced from the contracts. Can the Secretary of State reflect on that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u15	Oh, yeah. In fact, the anonymity in the civil contract was agreed, although no absolute guarantee could be given. However, anonymity is one of the important passages of that agreement. In view of the fact that this was a tipster who was actually anxious and had reasons for it, it is very important. This extreme commitment to a government agency such as the Tax Administration to a tipster who has something to fear is very serious. At the same time, the Supreme Court has finally ruled on what the FIOD employees have declared under oath. We are not going to repeat the course of justice, and I am happy to abide by the judgments of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has ruled that the Tax Administration staff are not obliged to disclose anything in court, in this case about the identity of the tipper, which the inspector did not wish to release. So there's something else going on here. The employees do not say in absolute terms what the Tax Administration is or is not obliged to do. They said that they should not disclose information on this because the inspector did not want to give this information in writing either. The Supreme Court ruled that this was a valid argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u16	I absolutely see the reasonableness of the argument of not trying to deter other potential tippers. I support the Secretary of State in that. It would be unreasonable for a tipster to be treated differently in class justice than other black savers in case the tipper himself is a black saver. Can the Secretary of State confirm that in the Netherlands we are not a tax haven, after all, is not the issue that a tipster who is himself a black horseman is being treated differently from other black horsemen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u17	No, I can't say anything about that right now. For that, the legal practice is too multi-coloured. Maybe this is typically something I could take with me in that letter. Answers must also be a little thoughtful after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u18	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u19	This case has been going on since 2009. Then a tipster shared information about black savers with the IRS. Since then, the lawyers of the black savers who have been ratted out have been chasing the tipster. This is now also happening through the media and parliamentary debates. Will the Secretary of State do everything in his power to ensure that the tipster's identity remains secret? Is he willing to explain where tippers are supposed to report if they have any information on black savers now? How do you get rid of your tips?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u20	As I have just said, but many of my predecessors have done so, the Tax Administration will make every effort to keep the name of the tipster secret, so as not to deter new tipsters. The IRS is open to new tippers. There is no active recruitment, but there should be absolutely no deterrent. I trust that everyone will know where to find the IRS, and then we will proceed with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-tweedekamer-5.u21	This brings us to the end of Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
