ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u1	I understand that Mr Engels as chairman of the Committee on Home Affairs and the High Colleges of State/General Affairs and House of the King has a point of order where the presence of the Minister for Home Affairs and National Service is desirable. The Minister is present. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I apologize that I did not preach enough with my clothes to the fact that I would be speaking here today. I know how you feel about it, so an apology seems appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u3	For this time, that's a deal. In French, it's called "décontracter." That sounds better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u4	Madam President. In the Committee on Home Affairs and the High Colleges of State/General Affairs and House of the King this morning, we discussed today's letter from the Minister for Home Affairs and the National Service asking the Chamber to consider the possibilities of a rapid procedure for examining legislative proposals 34373 and 34374. The Minister asked the Chamber to vote as soon as possible, i.e. today, on the latter bill, which deals with the provision of data by the Tax Administration. He writes that the income-dependent rent increases will then be possible for landlords as of 1 July 2016. The question is whether the Minister can indicate the consequences, both in terms of implementation and financial, and whether the First Chamber would not put this bill to the vote today. Exactly how urgent are the reasons for a settlement today? To what extent will the rent increase actually be put at risk as of 1 July 2016 in the event of a later settlement? Over the past few weeks, the First Chamber has received a variety of reports on this subject, which are open to several interpretations. That is why this Chamber appreciates the fact that the Minister has given us complete clarity on this matter today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr Engels. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of your Chamber for the opportunity to explain the urgency of this law. The Repair Data Provision Act makes it possible to return income data to landlords of social housing that cannot currently be provided due to a judgment of the Court of Justice of the Council of State. This means that at the moment landlords of social housing are allowed to apply a rent increase of inflation plus 1.5%. It is my expectation that they will do the same; this is also evident from the letter Aedes sent to this Chamber earlier. On the basis of this rent increase in inflation plus 1.5%, my colleague from Finance and myself have calculated the impact on the rent payment. Compared to the situation in which the lease market would be in place, with a maximum increase in inflation plus 1% on average for social landlords, this would be a setback in the rent surcharge of 19 million for this year and structural, because it continues in the percentages, a setback of 38 million per year. These are the consequences for the state finances. It also affects the tenants of social housing, because they will receive a rent increase of inflation plus 1.5%, i.e. without the amendment of the law, regardless of their income, plus 1.5%. If the law is passed, people with lower incomes will get a rent increase of inflation plus 1%, at least with housing corporations. For lower incomes, the adoption of the law therefore leads to a lower rent increase. As long as the law has not been passed, higher incomes will have an advantage, because they will not receive a rent increase of inflation plus 4% as long as the ruling of the Council of State has not been legally repaired. The non-acceptance of the law is therefore unfavourable for tenants with lower incomes and favorable for tenants with higher incomes. Both in the interest of state finances and in view of the income position of lower-income tenants, I would appreciate it very much if at least the reparation law on income distribution could be put to the vote in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u7	To be really clear and sharp, I ask the following question. I understand the Minister's argument that the lease market law is linked to the financial consequences he has outlined. But we are only talking about the specific repair bill that allows the Tax Administration to provide the data. I cannot quite follow to what extent the adoption of that repair law this week or next week will have the same financial consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u8	That repair bill is also part of the Wet flow rent market. Because I could not properly assess which of the two laws would be dealt with first, we certainly submitted a purely repair law and a more complete law at the time. It is the repair bill, to call it disrespectful, that gives landlords the assurance that they will be able to generate sufficient income at higher incomes if they calculate the low rent increase for lower incomes. Therefore, they will not have to calculate inflation plus 1,5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u9	Does the repair law depend on the choices the corporations make about whether or not to implement 1.5% or 1%? Is that what the Minister says? I'm really trying to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u10	According to the existing legislation, so if no law is passed, landlords of social housing can calculate inflation plus 1.5%. They will, because they ultimately need that revenue for their business operations. Once the repair law has been passed, they can be satisfied with a lower rent increase for lower incomes, because they know that they can calculate additional rent increases at higher incomes. This means that these lower incomes can be saved, and this has the consequences for the rent payment that I have outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u11	One last interruption. Thus, the corporations or other landlords anticipate that the adoption of the repair law also implies the adoption of the Rental Market Act. Otherwise, the Minister's reasoning will not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u12	They do not have to anticipate that, because the adoption of the repair law means that the current legislation on income-dependent rent is in force uninhibited. This means that a higher rent increase can be requested for higher incomes. The corporations have concluded a social housing agreement with the Housing Union whereby they want to apply for lower income inflation plus 1%. So they will also be eager to honour that agreement as long as they know that they can provide sufficient income along that other route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u13	The Minister's arguments go to my knowledge and as far as I understand them all about the combination of the two laws we are talking about. Only when and the repair law has been passed and the Wet flow rent market will landlords start to behave differently than now. This may have financial consequences, also indirectly for the state treasury through the rent allowance. However, the whole reasoning does not change the time when this Tax Service Repair Act is to be adopted. The landlords will do exactly the same after 12 April, whether this bill is adopted today or on 5 April. Can the Minister explain again why this law must be adopted today? What is the material difference in the rent increase as of 1 July, assuming that the Minister hopes that the Act will be adopted in this Chamber on 12 April? That is the essential part of his reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u14	The time pressure is that it is necessary for rent increase on 1 July for the landlords to have proper consultation with the tenants. As outlined in the letter from Aedes to the Chamber, this requires a period of time. A second aspect that takes time is making the data available by the Tax Administration and being able to process that data by the landlords. That combination was a reason for Aedes to draw your Chamber's attention to this aspect of time, and for me as the Minister responsible, who is also responsible for the implementation of this legislation, is reason to insist on that timely treatment in your Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u15	To summarize it very briefly and very clearly: you have the combination. That piece of data provided by the Tax Administration is in both the Wet doordeel verhuurmarkt and in this separate law. This is due to the Council of State's statement that it has not been properly regulated in the law. That's the repair law. Without that piece, the rest simply cannot enter into force, because you can no longer retrieve data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u16	Mrs De Vries sums it up perfectly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u17	I can see that connection, but I am concerned about today's time. In his whole reasoning, particularly with regard to the savings on the rent allowance for the richkas to which he refers in his letter of this morning, the Minister assumes a different rent increase on 1 July than that which we are now considering. That presupposes that the law on the flow of rentals is adopted. The Minister says: then I have the basis to prescribe other rent increases. That will not happen today. The mere fact that if we passed that law today the tax information may be provided to the landlords does not change that. The Minister is right, however, that it is easier for the landlords: the sooner they get that information, the sooner they can prepare their rent increase. That cannot be an argument, however, after so many months in which he has asked us to deal with it before 20 April, to suddenly adopt this repair bill, apart from that other law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u18	At the time of the adoption of the repair law, the landlords know that they can compensate for the lower rents of low incomes again with higher rents of higher incomes. Until the repair law is passed, they can't; they can't charge higher rents from higher incomes. For the sake of caution, they will then ask for the maximum rent of all incomes, including lower incomes: inflation plus 1.5%. This can only be avoided by providing the landlords with legal clarity: you can ask less of the low income, because you can generate additional income again from tenants with higher incomes. As a result, this is still separate from the lease market law, which I also consider to be of great importance, but which is not yet essential for the landlords to take decisions on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. It has already been said by previous speakers that the Minister has come up with this request rather prematurely and also with a proper knife to the chest: boys, it costs 30 million if you do not say yes today. I have just heard the Minister say that it does not cost 30 million, but 19 million; at least now 19 million and in the longer term 30 million structuralally. Of course, "in the longer term" is not about saying yes or not saying yes today. Can the Minister confirm that if we do not agree to that law today, it will indeed not cost 30 million and that it will be different from what we thought this morning on the basis of the Minister's information?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u20	The amounts are 19 million for the rest of this year and 38 million for full calendar years in the following years. With regard to untimelyness, I regret that we are under time pressure here. It is not for nothing that I have expressed my appreciation for having been given the opportunity to explain this. I have tried, however, in the documents relating to the law itself and also in the supplementary letters I have sent about it, to always point out that the time aspect plays a major role. With all due respect for the time that your Chamber intends to take, I would attack reality if I did not point out the time aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u21	I'll come back to my question anyway. The Minister was invited to this debate to show that no agreement today would cost 30 million. I hear the Minister say that it does not cost 30 million but 19 million and that it has other consequences in the longer term. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u22	These are the same amounts that were also mentioned in the letter I sent this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. Do I understand correctly that it is not a question of saving money or failing to do so, but primarily of the rent increases that the tenants are about to receive? I myself believe that the latter is the case, but I do not exclude that I have misunderstood it. I believe that when the time expires the landlords will no longer be able to request income data from the Tax Office. Perhaps the Minister can confirm that. Then there are no income data and you can no longer ask for income-dependent rent. I checked that again with Aedes this morning: what happens if? That will force the corporations to look at the lower income groups in the absence of the income-dependent rent increase. This indeed creates the odd paradox that the lower income groups get a higher rent increase and the higher income groups get a lower rent increase. I think we all do not want that paradox. A very short factual question is whether a date has been mentioned as a deadline by this or that instance. Or is the time needed to carry out all this work going to be hundreds of thousands and perhaps more than 2 million homes simply missing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u24	Mr Schouwenaar is right that not adopting the law means that lower incomes will suffer a higher rent increase. As a result, the rent payment and hence the state's cash will be affected. The time aspect follows from the calculation of the date of 1 July and the fact that landlords should have proper consultation with their tenants about planned rent increases. They themselves have indicated that if they do not have the legal space in time, they will report that they will opt for the 1.5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u25	I think that's getting us closer to the truth. It is for the benefit of the landlords, from their commitments to rent increases, that the Minister arrives at the eleventh hour with this request for urgency. Can the corporations not determine the level of the rent increase only after the possible adoption of the Act on the lease market in this Chamber on 12 April? Doesn't that mean that before then they won't be able to broadcast those letters or send them on the basis of the old law? Then it doesn't have any consequences at all for the amount of the rent and all that. What does it matter, then, whether it matters 19 million or whether it matters in terms of feasibility? If, prior to 12 April, the corporations receive a security on 5 April or on 29 March? Can the Minister deny again or confirm that the difference between 5 April and 29 March, in anticipation of the Rental Market Act, on which the landlords immediately base their rent notice, is a decisive difference for anything: for the amount of the notice, for the period of time that there is still time for consultation with the tenants or for whatever period of time? He hasn't been able to prove that to me so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u26	Yes, that's a decisive difference because time is already so tight. Mr Köhler asked if we would not then anticipate the passing of the law. No, the law allows, among other things, a different method of income-dependent rent increase. At the moment, the ruling of the Council of State does not allow any income-dependent rent increase at all. This means that for the sake of caution, landlords will choose the maximum space that they have legally been given: inflation plus 1.5%. This means a larger rent increase for lower incomes than the landlords can opt for at the time when they can earn again from an income-dependent rent increase that is higher for higher incomes. Yeah, that time pressure is really crucial. No, no decisions are being made now in anticipation of the law on the income-dependent rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u27	The Minister says that if nothing happens now or if it takes too long, it costs 19 million for this year and then 38 million structurally for the years after that. This applies to the government, but the Minister also said something about low-income tenants. If nothing happens now, then those people would get a higher rent. Is that to be compensated in later years, or does this mean for those people that the higher rent increase in the coming years is going to go through? We shall then be talking about an increase, particularly for lower incomes, over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u28	This increase will normally be triggered, as the landlord should eventually also be able to finance his business. As long as there is no extra income through the rent increase for higher incomes, the landlord will not reduce something by himself for lower incomes. We certainly can't force that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u29	For this year it is clear; then it would be 1.5% for everyone. Suppose, however, that the law will be passed in the course of this year, or both laws. It could be, because it's only April. In that case, the lower incomes for next year could be offset in relation to higher incomes. Can that which they now receive from increase still be compensated in the following year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u30	That is not obvious, because a landlord will say: for this year I have missed the income I could have had from the income-dependent rent increase for the higher rents. A rent increase is a percentage percentage, so the missed annual tranche remains a missed annual tranche.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u31	This is a procedural debate on a technical repair law. Unclear remains the question about the time that the corporations need to conduct what we appreciate, the consultation with the tenants, in a careful manner. In the correspondence we received, no hard dates are mentioned, except the date of 1 May. In fact, we have four weeks left. We appreciate treatment today, but can the Minister give us any more information on the timetable that the corporations are due to end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u32	Normally they want to finish the discussion two months in advance. In order to make the income-dependent rent increase part of the discussions, they must have the income data. If there is still a vote today, there is still a four-week period available. That's very tight, but I think it's just feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u33	I'm trying to keep it simple. This is an order debate on whether we are dealing with the repair law today or next week. We will then see whether it will be adopted or agreed today or next week. It is irrelevant whether it is 19 or 38 million, because the 38 million is not at all involved. It's gonna happen next week or this week or not. In fact, it's only about the amount of 19 million in my interpretation. Perhaps the Minister can confirm that. It is therefore a difference of three or four weeks and no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u34	I cannot confirm this, because the reasoning ignores what economists call the interest rate-over-interest effect. If you are not allowed to apply a percentage increase this year, then it is not in every year on which you will apply a percentage increase. That is why we will see the effect of 38 million on the rent payment in structural terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u35	I'm gonna try it again from a different angle. Does the Minister, with his urgent request, propose that the announcement of the rent increase on 1 July should only take place in good time, as well as the consultation with the tenants who are given that the consultation is only after 1 May, if we adopt this repair law today, and if we adopt that bill on 5 April, it will not be possible for this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u36	Mr Köhler put it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u37	I don't think so, but I have to take the Minister's word for it as a great matter expert. The accelerated procedure was not known for months, but today it has become known that this law can only be adopted today. Otherwise it will not be possible to implement it for this year at least. The Minister is now putting this in our midst. We'll write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u38	I am challenging Mr Köhler's statement that this is the first time that this issue has been raised today. For my part, there has been correspondence in which I have asked for an early debate. This has been underlined by the dome of housing corporations. It has also indicated that there are implementation problems. I appreciate that I have the opportunity to point out the urgency again, but I'm not doing that for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u39	When the Minister presented this law to the Chamber, he asked us to adopt it soon, before 20 April this year. That was literally what it said. After that, the Minister sent a letter in the interim, between that time and today, requesting that this be done quickly. That's what the Chamber's been working on. First this morning, but by oral announcement yesterday or the day before yesterday, the Chamber has received the message that it must be today and that otherwise it can no longer be done, at least that it can no longer have any consequences this year. If this is the logic of the law, and of the legal procedures, then the Minister could have known this months earlier, because no new information has emerged when it comes to planning the rent increases 2016. But of which act: the Minister says today that the rent increase procedures on 1 July of this year can only be correct if we adopt the law today and otherwise not. That's why it has to be today. That's what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u40	Mr Schouwenaar and Mr De Graaf will have the floor. Then I'll finish the order debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u41	Mr Köhler summarizes it correctly once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u42	It is perhaps appropriate to add a modest complement to what Mr Köhler says. We're not just talking about something new today. We've been talking about it for two months from the beginning of February. So what the Minister is saying can't be a surprise. He's always argued that. He also indicated this in a list of urgent legislative proposals. All these legislative proposals always had a standard date, namely 20 April. There is also an accompanying text. Later on, the Minister stated in letters once again that there was a need for more urgency and that the date of 20 April had to be corrected in an earlier date. This is an addition to Mr Köhler's happy news.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u43	This little order debate was meant to ask the Minister if it really should be today. He gave the answer once and again. Yeah, I have to. Let us ask whether or not we are grateful to the Minister, in the sense that he could have said this earlier, and reserve the further content of the debate for the debate which is apparently still being requested for this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-eerstekamer-8.u44	Thank you, Minister, and those who have committed an interruption. I propose to the Minister that bill 34374 be added to today's plenary agenda. I suggest we deal with this bill at 4:00 p.m. this afternoon.
