ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Privacy in care is a great asset and trust in the proper handling of patient data is an important condition for a good relationship between doctor and patient. Since January, these data are shared between five parties in the care, each with their own interests in that data. Those parties are health insurance companies, Vektis, the Dutch Healthcare Authority, the Dutch Health Insurance Institute and the Netherlands, as we learned from the Volkskrant this morning. GroenLinks is in favour of open data in healthcare, provided that privacy is not compromised and information can never be traced back to a person or used for wrong purposes. We have therefore committed ourselves to sharing that data. But we are concerned about this, because it is not transparent and the interests of the parties concerned are not clear. Care data is not a commodity. We therefore ask when and on what basis it has been decided that medical data can be more intensively linked and analysed. Why was the Chamber not explicitly informed of this decision and the agreement? How has this decision been assessed against the risks to people's privacy? Has the Personal Data Authority been approached for advice? What is the reaction of the Secretary of State to experts' concerns about the risk of risk profiling and the legality of the exchange? Who's the information broker? What is the legal basis for this? Who supervises the exchange of information? What information has been exchanged through this information broker? How is it guaranteed that the data cannot be used for wrong purposes, for example for risk selection? Why can this information be exchanged between these organisations but does the Dutch Healthcare Authority refuse to disclose data on diagnostic treatment combinations? What's the status of the lawsuit on that? Is the Secretary of State prepared to provide an overview of organisations and companies that have access to the data on diagnostic treatment combinations of the Dutch Healthcare Authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. It might be a good idea, as Mrs Voortman points out, first to outline the context. I agree with her statement that care dates are not a commodity. Since 2013, there has also been a debate in the Chamber on how to organise the exchange of information between insurers on the one hand and providers to the legal organisations IGZ, Zorginstituut Nederland, NZa and VWS on the other. This information is now requested at different times with different definitions and at different aggregation levels. That's very inefficient. The Chamber has also insisted on this. I believe the term "information house" fell back then. We've been asked if we can't settle this better. We have been asked to understand the quality and costs, with the good definitions and at the right moments. We need to meet efficiently and not get the same information ten times. One of the measures is the question of whether each government organisation should separately request data from the health insurance companies or use Vektis, the data collector of the health insurance companies. Soon we may have a discussion about whether everyone should request information separately from the information system of the DB's. Agreements have been made to ensure that the data can be clearly retrieved. For the time being this is limited to the Vektis data, the declaration data, which will of course not be used per person. When I look at the appointment with a carpenter's eye, it fits in with the appointments made with the Chamber. If the Chamber appreciates that, I am certainly prepared to ask the Minister to send the letter to the Chamber, including the precise course of events, the arrangements and the extent to which this fits in. That seems to me to be a good thing. Again, it's appointments that fit the movement. The exchange of information does not go to commercial parties, but to legal bodies for legal tasks. They can now request that information, albeit separately. It's gonna be more coordinated. That seems to me to be a good thing. It is clear that they too must comply with all the privacy requirements that have to do with this. This means, for example, that what can and cannot be done must be reported to the data officers. That also means that it needs to be tested. We will watch it very closely. If these coordinated agreements are made, they must, of course, comply with all the rules of art. If they do not comply, comments will be made. The data can also not be used for other purposes, e.g. risk profiling by health insurers. Moreover, it is the data of the health insurers themselves that are requested by public authorities. So I'm not so afraid of that wrong use either. I can't give you the latest state of play on the trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u3	I find it really incomprehensible that the Chamber should not be informed when we have so many debates here about privacy, especially those in the care sector, when a decision is taken. It is nice that the Secretary of State states that he can send that letter, but I want the Cabinet to inform us explicitly and not only when we ask for it because there is a piece in the Volkskrant. I have not yet received an answer to a large number of questions. For example, I asked if the Dutch Data Protection Authority was approached for advice and, if so, what its reaction was. I asked about the information broker. What is the legal basis for this? Who supervises the exchange of that information? How is it guaranteed that these data cannot be used for wrong purposes, for example for risk selection? In addition, I would very much like to have an overview of organisations and companies that have access to the data on diagnostic treatment combinations of the Dutch Healthcare Authority. It's not just about what, it's about data in healthcare. That's extra sensitive. I think it is logical for the cabinet to inform us explicitly so that we can have a good debate on this. I would like to answer the questions that I have just asked and which I had already asked in the first term, but which I have not yet received an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u4	Quite precisely: it is not a matter of providing data to third parties, it is about data that the NZa, the Zorginstituut Nederland or the IGZ can already request from the health insurance companies or from the providers in view of the legal tasks. The only appointment that has been made now is a response to the question of whether this could not be more convenient, i.e. not each individual with the different health insurance companies, but with Vektis, the data file of the claims. There's nothing new about that. It is simply the same information that the institutions consider necessary to carry out their legal task and which can already be requested and which can later be requested more conveniently. That's one. Two: the Dutch Data Protection Authority is not involved as such, because it is about the design of an existing agreement. However, when requested, the information must comply with the requirements to be laid down. The data officers at the legal organisations such as the Zorginstituut Nederland and the Dutch Healthcare Authority should be involved in this. If they are not sufficiently involved, they must be called upon to do so. The information broker isn't here yet. The issue is what should happen if the legal organisations not only want to retrieve Vektis' data, but also the data from DIS, the DBC Information System. Well, then you'd better take a good look at how that goes. Then maybe you should put something like a trusted third party in there. It's not that far. The agreements currently in force only concern a more efficient demand from health insurers, namely through Vektis. As I have just said, if information is collected, it can only be done for the purposes that have been agreed and which are part of the legal tasks. No data on DBs are provided to third parties, to my knowledge, without being part of the statutory tasks of Zorginstituut Nederland, the NZa or the IGZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u5	I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if he is prepared to approach the Personal Data Authority for advice on this matter. This seems to me to be the least, given the fact that several experts are also concerned about risks for risk profiling and about the legality of the exchange. That seems to me to be the least thing that should happen here. In addition, I keep the feeling that the Secretary of State is playing down a bit by saying: yes, but these are all the legal tasks, because at the same time it is already being announced that an information broker should be set up if one still needs to go a step further. It is precisely for this reason that I think it is very important for the Chamber to be informed about every step, so that we can also say: okay, this can be done, and ho, this goes too far. Healthcare data is something very sensitive and needs to be handled much more carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u6	Of course, there is a willingness to see if the Dutch Data Protection Authority has any further comments on the system. There's that willingness. I have tried to point out that since 2013 there has been a discussion with this Chamber, partly encouraged by the Chamber itself, in order to achieve a more efficient exchange of data and perhaps even to work with open data. This is the elaboration of the agreements that were made with the Chamber at the time. I am prepared, given the questions that exist, to help ensure that the agreements made in response to the questions from the Chamber are sent to the Chamber once more. Then the Chamber can also assess whether this complies with all the rules of art.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. I'm glad you're giving me a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u8	Well, to stand by the cathedral, because the Secretary of State hadn't spoken out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u9	I can see that I have a few seconds left to speak. Open data in healthcare is indeed important, but precisely the Dutch Healthcare Authority refuses to share information about diagnosis-treatment combinations. That's information that can't be traced back to people. So this is just a weird grip. Sharing between these five parties, but not with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u10	Of course, this is a bit dependent on the question of which privacy requirements the data supply to other parties should meet. I see that as another reason why it is good to involve the Personal Data Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u11	We have here a memorandum of understanding on information provision in healthcare, and it says that there will be an information broker who will be an independent body, that other sources and customers will be connected in the future, possibly also private parties, whose funding will be settled for a while. In other words, it is not a public body. The Secretary of State pretends to be talking about something here, but this is just an agreement, and it dates back to 23 September 2015. Why wasn't it shared with the room? It has never been mentioned that this became so concrete. Is the Secretary of State prepared to stop the elaboration of this agreement until the Personal Data Authority has looked into it and until the Court has discussed it? Until then, these plans cannot be further developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u12	There's no information broker at all yet. In the document it can be read that this is about the question: now, say that the data request should not only take place with Vektis, but also with other sources, are you going to arrange it separately or do you want it to be coordinated, so that it can be checked whether that data demand meets all the requirements that you can make of it? So if you are going to ask for information from several sources, it is good to look not only at the individual sources, but also at the total. For example, it is important to make sure that data is not combined that should not be combined. That seems to me to be very sensible. So it still has to be worked out. I have just promised that there will be a separate letter from the cabinet to explain what the ins and outs of this agreement are and what the further plans are. Then we can talk extensively with the Chamber about whether this is a good thing or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u13	I would like to point out that that agreement was simply concluded on 23 September 2015 and agreed to become an information broker. Then it is not fair that the Secretary of State does not even inform us a) and b) denies that these plans are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mrs Leijten, if you have a document, you must share it with others. Otherwise, no one knows what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u15	On the website of de Volkskrant, everyone can read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u16	Well, that's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u17	The Secretary of State is talking about the fact that the information broker isn't here yet. He felt that it was necessary to ensure that the exchange of information was carried out in such a way as to ensure anonymity, which would not be traceable from where the data came from. However, information sharing has been possible since 1 January. I very much wonder what guarantees people have that they will remain anonymous. Data is now shared by a number of parties. The more you can tie together, the closer you can get to the person. What guarantees do patients who are not aware of what happens to their data, that their data cannot be traced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u18	That happens in two ways. It is now possible to obtain the data from the individual insurers, taking into account the statutory tasks of the Healthcare Institute, the IGZ or the NZa. The question was whether that's convenient. Everyone does that at different times and works with different definitions. The Court has called for this to be done more efficiently and clearly. Can this be done by using Vektis, the collected database of claims rather than working with the individual health insurance companies? That is not an addition to the legal tasks. There are no other requirements. All requirements of privacy that are already being made must be met. We will monitor this very closely. Then the follow-up question is whether you want to do this with data from other sources. Then, theoretically, there would be the possibility of combining data; something you do not want. Then you have to make an extra provision to ensure that this happens according to the rules of art. Then perhaps you should have someone as an information broker who will make sure that the legal requirements are met in that case too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u19	Your second supplementary question, Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u20	Well, then, here's what I'm wondering. The Chamber has not already been informed of this. Everyone knows how sensitive the exchange of data is. The Secretary of State is right that the Chamber has insisted. We believe that data can be used efficiently and that hospitals can be compared. The quality of care and the results can therefore be compared. How are we supposed to rely on that? Now it seems that there is much more information about patients being shared, while no one has a clear view of how that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u21	That's a fair question. It is not intended to make combinations other than those currently available on the basis of the legal possibilities. Nevertheless, if you come to a different, more efficient way of exchanging information, there is reason enough to look at it separately for once. That's the information broker's idea. I'll say again that there isn't one yet. I am very willing to share not only the agreement, but also the further agreement and its further elaboration with the Chamber so that it can watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u22	Data exchange in care must be properly arranged in the front so that there is no subsequent discussion about it. That's gotta be clear. On 23 May 2013, a motion by Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Voortman was unanimously adopted by the Chamber. The government was called upon to make more data on care available to the public. Doesn't it make sense that, when you start doing what the Chamber very much wants, parties have to work together on that point in order to achieve this exchange of information? How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u23	The short answer to that question is yes. This means that we are ensuring that the data is exchanged efficiently, provided, of course, with the necessary privacy guarantees, so that not everyone will do so with different definitions. This is an effect of the agreements we have made with the Chamber. If the House also wants to see this effect, we are prepared to provide it. The short answer to Mr De Lange's question is: that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u24	Second supplementary question by Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u25	That's clear. Isn't it a little strange that this is coming out today as a very big, newsworthy point, when the Chamber has been working on it for years? What is the State Secretary's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u26	Sorry, Mr De Lange, you were not actually entitled to a supplementary question. You'd already been here. I therefore consider this to be unsolicited and give the floor to Mrs Wolbert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u27	I'd like to make a personal statement, Mr. Chairman. Mr De Lange addressed me here, but he did not comment on what I said when I was sitting in the chair, namely that it should be information that is not traceable to the person and that it would be logical for the Chamber to be informed. Maybe the VVD doesn't attach to that, but GroenLinks does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u28	The PvdA is pleased with the letter that is coming, because there has been a lot of confusion. I have one additional point. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to include, in the letter on the current situation, the position of the clients, in particular the question of what the client actually consents to in the exchange of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u29	That seems to me to be a good thing, although we should bear in mind that, given the performance of the legal tasks, it will not be about individualised personal data, but rather about questions such as the development of costs in care, what about the amount of treatment that takes place, what are the nature and extent of these treatments and how should the risk be dealt with? In short, it concerns all kinds of data that are already being requested, albeit from individual health insurance companies, and on which the agreement has been made to deal more efficiently with them. But we will certainly take Mrs Wolbert's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you. Then let's get back to the last question.
