ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Economic Affairs to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. You asked me to tell you which blocks my contribution is made. I'll start with an introduction, that's the first block. In the second block of "space for innovation," I focus on innovation policy, top sectors policy, the digital economy and cooperation with the region. In the third block, I focus on entrepreneurship: funding, support for SMEs and the regulatory environment for entrepreneurship. The fourth block deals with future-proof energy supply. In this block I go into the energy agreement, SDE+, renewable energy, energy saving and energy innovation. Over the past four years, I have taken the opportunity to point out the economic position of the Netherlands in the world on a number of occasions. I did that because I was convinced that we had to work out of the crisis on the basis of confidence in our own strength and skills. We had to do that together. Businesses, governments, knowledge institutions and civil society organisations had to strengthen each other. You remember: the Netherlands at the top of the world in terms of exports of goods and services, investment, competitiveness, innovation, business environment, the Netherlands as exporter of the most advanced high-tech machines and the Netherlands as leading agro-exporting country. At the end of this cabinet period, which is in sight, we can see that it has also worked. The Netherlands has been working out of the crisis. Our economy is bigger than before the crisis and growth is higher than in the euro area. Public finances are in order and structural reforms have been implemented. The Netherlands has the most competitive economy in the whole of the European Union and is fourth in the world. As Mr Ziegs said, this has been achieved thanks to the quality, resilience, creativity and commitment of entrepreneurs, but also thanks to the performance of workers in industry, the knowledge sector, public authorities and services in the broad sense. It is the result of joint, coordinated efforts. What matters, of course, is what the inhabitants of our country individually notice. In this respect, too, the improvement has been clearly deployed. The number of bankruptcies has fallen and is at the lowest level since 2008. Purchasing power is improving this year by more than 2.5% in a year. Over the last 12 months, 145 000 more people came to work and the number of unemployed fell by almost 100 000. There is still much to be done and much to be achieved, especially for us in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But the course we've set is good, and we're progressing. I am very aware that the Cabinet has been able to do its job thanks to the Chamber: the indispensable political support we have received throughout the cabinet period in various forms, the financial resources, the laws, especially the constant critical assessment, the impatient incentive to do good and also occasionally overlooking shortcomings. Allow me to express my gratitude once in my 22nd and final budget debate: ten as MPs and twelve as ministers. I'm going back to the economy. During the crisis, our economy continued to spin thanks to exports. Exports account for 30% of our gross domestic product. Exports are still growing, but also domestic spending, investment is growing at 5% in a year's period of time, as well as consumption. The risks to the Dutch economy, which are internationally the most interconnected economy in the world, come mainly from abroad. These risks are therefore important for the Netherlands. In particular, it is a question of delaying world trade. The best way to counter this is to keep our affairs in order internally and to continue to play a constructive role in the world, in the international contexts. We can do this, for example, by striving for international trade agreements. More trade leads directly to more prosperity and more work. The potential of CETA with Canada, for example, is 20% more trade. The EU treaty with Korea led to more than 50% more trade in five years. And the potential of the TTIP treaty with the United States is even doubling. But it's also about quality, of course. I very much missed Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Ouwehand.............................................................................................................................................. The cabinet strives for growth through technological and social innovations, growth by working more efficiently and productively in a sustainable way. Fortunately, there is continuity of policy in the Netherlands. Between 2000 and 2014, the Dutch economy grew by 15% while environmental pressure decreased. There was a halving of the emissions of heavy metals and a halving of the nitrogen surplus. Based on the hard facts, I expect CO emissions in the Netherlands to be 25% lower by 2020 than those emissions in 1990. And we all know we have to go much further back. We need to work towards a sustainable, biobased, CO-poor circular economy with a 50% reduction in the use of primary raw materials by 2030. The transition under way in the Netherlands has already led to 2 billion euros of investment in some 1,200 biobased projects, representing 44,000 jobs. I regret that Mr Smaling is not present in the Chamber, but I am of course pleased with the presence of Mrs Gesthuizen, who asked how I think the Netherlands will stand in 2050. He is known as my friend and I am also very grateful to him for that wonderful question, because it gives me the opportunity, exceptionally, to look over my own portfolio briefly and in general terms, with the legitimacy of at least Mr Smaling. And he also offers me the opportunity to look beyond national borders, because what is happening in the world is increasingly determining what is happening in Europe and what is happening in the Netherlands. My answer to Mr Smaling's question is how, in my opinion, the Netherlands stands in 2050: that depends on it. That's a political answer, because I'm a politician. It depends on whether we can find a global balance with nature, and this is certainly not just about reducing CO emissions. It depends on whether we can limit large-scale corruption in the world and whether we can reduce the unjustified, extreme income disparities in the world. It depends on whether we can act more effectively internationally against large-scale violations of human rights, abuse of power and other abuses, and whether we can stop the uncontrolled migration of disadvantaged people to Europe. It depends on whether we are able to integrate the disadvantaged who have already reached Europe. It depends in particular on the extent to which we dare to take freedom and responsibility as a starting point in the world, in Europe and in the Netherlands, together with an effective government response when freedom is abused or responsibility is not fulfilled. Mr President, I shall now return to my own portfolio. It was only Mr Smaling who asked me to do this, so I cannot afford too much freedom in this either. Let me start with the second block, on room for innovation, and on innovation policy. Mrs Mulder and Mr Verhoeven addressed the purpose of the cabinet for research and development. By 2020, 2.5% of our gross domestic product should be used for this purpose. That's 2% by now. The percentage has risen slowly in recent years. But to grow to that extra 0.5% over the next four years, we need to do the necessary. In total, we spend around 13.6 billion in innovation, on research and development, in the Netherlands, i.e. government and companies together. Of these, 7.4 billion come from business. Business is now doing this for 1 billion in the form of public-private partnerships, thanks to everything that is organised. This means that public authorities and businesses spend 1 billion on public-private partnerships, of which almost half, 48%, is financed by industry. That is how we got things moving. We have paid a great deal of attention to SMEs. There are many schemes with substantial support and large amounts, focusing in particular on SMEs. I think the strongest example is the Wbso (Law promoting research and development). That is the biggest financial item we have to support innovation. Of the Wbso, 65% of the approximately 1.2 billion available goes to SMEs, while SMEs account for 40% of innovation. We are simply deliberately promoting SMEs. Mrs Mulder asked me to draw up an action plan to achieve the 2.5% by 2020. I believe that with the resources available in this cabinet period for generic and specific policies, we have done everything possible and have achieved excellent results. If you get into the position of being the most competitive economy in the whole of Europe at some point, you have achieved something. The approach in the next cabinet period depends on the availability of resources: more money allows policy to intensify. Whether there will be will have to be evidence in the cabinet formation. The generic policy that is now in place, with the Wbso, the innovation box, the innovation credit and the accessible intellectual property system, and also the specific policy, with the top sectors policy and targeted attracting companies to strengthen the Dutch economy, have been fully exploited. We took out what was to be taken out of this cabinet period. Plans will have to be made for the next cabinet period on the basis of the then available resources. That will have to be done by my successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u3	I thought the Minister was done with this subject, so I thought I could ask my question now. Or would you rather we ask questions at the end of a block?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u4	The blocks are pretty big, so I'd like to ask the question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u5	I understand very well that we have achieved the goals within the existing resources and that we have not done so very badly. However, I am concerned that, in the run-up to next year, some recommendations could perhaps be made so that the new cabinet can get off to a good start. I would like to see that action plan before then, so that we can go straight ahead and not lose six months or a year first. To this end, I call on the Minister to come up with an action plan. I wonder if he's up for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u6	No, I'm not into that. What we can do with the current resources, we have done. That is what we have done with generic and specific policies. We took out what's inside. That's it now. If you want an intensification of policies, it depends on the resources available. Additional actions may be set up on the basis of any additional funds available. However, I cannot do that, because I do not have that extra money. It is not in my budget and has also not been made available in the General Reviews and Financial Reviews. From the money I had, I took out what was in it. I think we can see that this has achieved the achievable results. For example, we had the plan to stimulate public-private cooperation, i.e. cooperation between government and companies, by half a billion dollars, and let business pay 40% of that. It has become a billion and business has paid 48%. I really took what's in there for my gut. I'm not gonna make any more action plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u7	Can the Minister then consider whether recommendations can be made, except intensifying things that we are already doing? For example, we can see how we can achieve climate goals better in the near future. Of course, a lot is going to happen there. So we can make a first start for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u8	I find it hard to rule over my grave. I believe that it is now time for the various parties to come up with their electoral programmes. They've thought about it a long time. The programs are there now. Mr Verhoeven said that, as far as he and D66 are concerned, one billion will be added for innovation. We'll see what the others think of that. We will then see if it leads to anything in the cabinet formation. On that basis, you can start doing new things. However, I do not think it is appropriate for me to come forward now with recommendations for the next cabinet period. It was really my job to do what could be done. I have done so for my own good, and I want to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u10	I come to the fiscal innovation toolbox. I have indicated that the Wbso is the most important arrangement. The cabinet increased that arrangement by 33 million for 2017. Since 2018 we have made structuralally available 85 million. This will enable us to maintain this important scheme in the years to come, and to maintain the high level of benefit for SMEs within that scheme, and thus within innovation policy. I hope that this will meet Mr Monasch, who has clearly highlighted the importance of this. Mrs Vos said that she attaches great importance to the provision available at SURF. We have talked about this a number of times. In addition to the funding available from the Ministry of Education, which is primarily responsible for SURF, some 16 million have been made available from the EZ budget in recent years. A further ruling was made by the Chamber during the 2016 budget debate. That statement meant that something had to be done about this from the Future Fund and that an amount of 8 million from the Future Fund should be made available to SURF. By the way, I just said that 16 million was occasionally made available from the EZ budget, but it is 19 million. In the course of the budgetary procedure, therefore, an additional 8 million has been requested from the Future Fund. We have considered whether we could actually make a sum available from that Future Fund for this purpose. This ultimately amounted to EUR 11.1 million. But it's the Future Fund. The Future Fund has been set up very explicitly by the Chamber as a fund that must be revolver. The amendment adopted by the Court last year also states that expenditure from the Future Fund will have to return to the fund. That's what it was like. There's no other way, because the Future Fund is revolver. The amount available, which is 11 million, will be available over a period of three years, in accordance with the request that SURF has submitted to us. Thereafter, it may be repaid in accordance with the application over a period of five years. That gives SURF the opportunity to improve her earning model. We believe that it is possible for that organisation to take more out of the market. If it gets more out of the market, it also offers the opportunity to repay the money that it now gets interest-free and which only has to be repaid over a long period of time. I think it is very good for the continuity of the organisation that it improves its earning model on this point. Both from EZ and from OCW we are willing to think about it with SURF. The scheme we set up in the Future Fund also allows the repayment to be spread over an even longer period. Investments from the Future Fund can be made up to a maximum of five years. The interest-free loan can then be repaid in the 15 years thereafter. I don't know if SURF is interested in talking to us about that in any other way than her application. If that is the case, we are happy to be prepared to do so. However, I think that the contributions that we have made are the occasional additions of 19 million from the EZ budget in recent years and the interest-free loan of 11 million from the 2016 budget were the contributions that SURF needed. So this can also do what needs to be done there. I say all this in response to what Mrs Vos has said on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mrs Vos has another question on this. For those who understand: SURF does not stand for a shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u12	It represents a very important part of the top sectors policy to ensure that scientists and highly innovative businesses can make use of the facilities offered by SURF, including computers and networks. That is what we are good at, and we are encouraging it from top sector policies. I am not satisfied with the Minister's answer. The question was not about the amount of the amounts, but about the nature of the amounts. Back in the day, when we were wise and wise and had a lot of gas, that money that we saw as investment in the future came from the FES (Funds Economic Structure Strengthening). The FES has been abolished by Rutte I, but the need for rapid computing remains. In fact, it's getting bigger and bigger. The top sectors policy is based on this, as is a whole range of other policies. EZ and OCW have always done this together and the contribution for this came from the FES. The discussion we have been having for years now is about whether EZ wants to do what EZ is about: to take care of this infrastructure. My question was whether we could not do that again in a new income model. After all, it is top sector policy. PhD students who make things with a number of companies cannot pay back with a new earning model of EZ money. There is also a non-revolver part in the Future Fund and paying back every five years is quite difficult. Paying back every 15 years is weird, because the equipment only lasts five years. My question was: can the Minister explain the amendment differently? It's not about revolver, but this could come back in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u13	With all due respect to my associates, it's not about what officials want, it's about what I want. The FES has been abolished, that money is no longer available and is not on the EZ budget. So EZ can't bet it either. SURF is financed from the OCW budget. From the EZ budget, occasional money has been released in a number of years, but that space is not in EZ now; we all know that. Science policy is the primary responsibility of OCW, hence the funding of OCW SURF. Last year there was an amendment focusing on the Future Fund. The Future Fund is a revolver fund, which is included in the scheme. The amendment also stated that the money had to be repaid. The period of repayment and the period of investment are in line with what SURF has requested. If that still needs to be discussed, I am prepared to do so. I think it's really useful, but that goes for all the institutions that are comparable to SURF and funded by the government, that they are doing their best for their own model of earning and that, in addition to government money, the money also comes in in a different way. There's still room for improvement. SURF must do so first of all and we are prepared to help. We are also prepared to discuss the deadlines, but I cannot deviate from the rules of the FES and from what is set out in the amendment. This is what I can reasonably do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u14	We differ on what kind of investment it is. I think it is part of industrial policy and top-level policies to invest, expecting it to come back in a variety of ways. That's exactly what they do to those supercomputers. I have an amendment to cover it from the TKI allowance, and we will be done with this discussion. Is the Minister saying that we are still going to see what we can do about the costs if SURF is unable to repay the unexpected because the nature of the work does not lend itself to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u15	It is not the case that if Mrs Vos puts forward an amendment, which is the end of the discussion. What the hell? This is a consultation in the Chamber with several spokesmen and with more groups than just Mrs Vos, and in that consultation we exchange arguments. Last year I received an amendment from which I quoted. I quoted the Future Fund and the rules laid down by the Court. Scientific research results are also important for industry. OCW finances SURF and the FES is no longer available for EZ. In recent years, we have occasionally extracted 19 million from the EZ budget. 8 million was requested in the amendment and we were able to release 11 million from the Future Fund. We would like to discuss this with SURF. I would also like to discuss with SURF the development of the earning model. I think that we have given reasonable guidance and that we could be satisfied, but I would like to discuss this with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u16	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the specific business policy or top sector policy, as Mr Verhoeven calls it. I always colour it a bit wider myself by saying that we have a generic and specific business policy in the Netherlands. The top sectors have been in focus since 2010. This whole cabinet period is the specific business policy focused on global societal challenges. In 2013 I sent a note with an analysis to the Chamber, in which I deal with the question of how the earning capacity of Dutch business should be closely linked to global societal challenges in the future. In that piece, entitled Global challenges Dutch solutions, we indicated for this cabinet period that the specific business policy or top sectors policy is about how to create prosperity and jobs in the Netherlands by working on global societal challenges. The distribution of Dutch companies competing on the world market in nine top sectors is not in any way in the way of these societal challenges. Dutch exports account for almost a third of our gross domestic product. Within these nine top sectors, the vast majority of them are covered. 90% of what is happening in the Netherlands is happening within these nine top sectors. Despite being a relatively small country, it is impossible, where we have so much business activity, to link all this business activity to the various governments and to the knowledge institutions, such as universities, TNO and similar organisations. That's not good to do. Together with industry, we have looked at where logical partnerships exist within the business community, and we have chosen them as a starting point. The differences between these sectors are not really relevant. These top sectors are a tool for working on these societal challenges. You can see that more than half of the activities, around 60%, are spread across these top sectors, with cross-cutting themes, cross-sectoral approaches and joint projects. Those nine top sectors are a tool, but then it's about what you do together and what you can do about innovation by looking beyond the boundaries of those top sectors. It's impossible to put all that together. You have to do that differently organizationally, and that's what we've done. Within each sector, the last six years have worked very hard on this cooperation, with a good result. These top sectors are the collaborative model to work as the Netherlands on those global societal challenges. Within this whole top sector policy, we aim to involve SMEs from a variety of different angles. We have involved 2,600 SMEs in the TKIs (Top consortia for Knowledge and Innovation). For the MKB innovation stimulation Region and Top Sectors (MIT) scheme, some 55 million were available last year, the year before and perhaps also the coming year. 660 SMEs are involved. I come from the world of the small middle class. That's where my parents and my in-laws worked, and that's where I started myself. I have a great deal of appreciation for small shopkeepers and, for example, for owners of a pizza restaurant or for market buyers, but they do not win the battle for us on the world market. We do not owe it primarily to them that the Netherlands is the fifth exporter of goods and the sixth exporter of services in the world or that the Netherlands of all EU countries has the most competitive economy. The competitiveness of the Dutch economy is greater, to name but a few, than that of the economy in Germany, the United Kingdom or Sweden. This position is due to the strength of the Dutch companies which are able to compete on the world market and to link small and medium-sized enterprises. This position is due to the cooperation between these companies and knowledge institutions and to public authorities. This is due to the good functioning of the Dutch authorities and to the generic and specific business policies. In the work we do in the top sectors policy and in the specific business policy aimed at our position to address societal challenges in the world, I would certainly not want to miss companies such as Shell, ASML, AkzoNobel, Philips, BASF and DSM. I really need them in those clusters to get things done together with the small and medium-sized companies. Our specific business policy means that we allow companies in the top sectors to invest money in innovation. The government then rewards this with a 25% surcharge. This supplement is used to conduct separate research in a top sector and its research results are made available to everyone. So what is being done in these top sectors, the added value that comes from it, becomes available to all companies in the Netherlands. So we use the top sectors as a crowbar to work on societal global challenges, and we also use them as a means of involving as many SMEs as possible. If the companies in the top sector and SMEs around them are successful, they will attract the rest of the economy to the companies I talked about: the small shopkeepers, the market merchants, the owners of a pizza restaurant. I think that it has now become clear that cooperation between companies, knowledge institutions and governments in the Netherlands is very successful and has contributed substantially to the results achieved by Dutch companies in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u18	Minister, Mr Verhoeven has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u19	I'm almost done with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u21	In addition to societal challenges, attention needs to be paid to technological innovation in top sectors policy. You can't direct everything to a social challenge. Mr Verhoeven knows that like no other, because he mentioned blockchain. He said that should be invested in blockchain, but that is a development of the future. Right now, I can't link blockchain to a societal global challenge, but I do know that he's right and that it's a technology that needs to be developed. We are working on chemical building blocks, and I know that we are doing important fundamental research where the societal global challenges will certainly come true, but they cannot yet be directly linked. We're working on nanothography and nanosensor techniques. There's no direct linking them either. When Mr Verhoeven called for an extra billion euros to be spent on innovation, he himself said that you need to ensure that a significant part of it is spent on basic research. That's the way it is. We now have a balance between working towards the societal challenges, taking technological innovation with us and involving as many large and small Dutch companies as possible in order to achieve the optimal result for the entire economy. I would therefore like to continue with that. I am very willing to look at how we can develop a separate agenda for each particular societal challenge, in line with Mr Verhoeven's wish, in order to further strengthen the focus on societal challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u22	That last one sounded good. I have talked to the Minister on this subject many times and many times. In my view, my group has been saying for some time that the social challenges must be put at the centre. The Minister just said a number of things: that the top sectors are a tool, that we are already very cross-sectorally engaged, that we already think very much about the boundaries of those sectors, that they are a crowbar to tackle these societal challenges. Fortunately, therefore, the Minister recognises that these societal challenges are ultimately a very important focus for our country's innovation. But in my view, the Minister does not yet want to take the step to phase out these nine sectors and ensure that these four social issues become the central points of leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u23	No, because if I'm gonna dismantle those top sectors, I'm gonna dismantle the partnership. I am very willing to look at the resources, but in the end I only care about the goal: those societal challenges. How can we in the Netherlands ensure that we do the good things for the world? And how can we increase our prosperity and employment by doing so? That is what I want to achieve, and I see top-level policy as a means of achieving it. At that time, this division was negotiated. A great deal of cooperation has now been organised in this area, and this has very good effects. I'm not prepared to dismantle that. However, I am prepared to consider how the ultimate objective is to be achieved, because the distribution of the top sectors is only a means of achieving this by developing separate agendas for each social challenge. Of course, I am also prepared to see whether the distribution of the top sectors we have created is in keeping with this and to discuss it. But if I am asked if I am prepared to dismantle the top sectors policy, my answer is no. If I am asked if I am prepared, in line with Mr Verhoeven's proposal, to focus even more on these societal challenges, then my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u24	I admit that in recent years I have been very critical of the top sectors, particularly because I have seen the nine traditional sectors, which are nine old-fashioned industries, as a straitjacket, as too tight a costume. I want a much more innovative way of looking for solutions to major global and societal challenges. I have also always said that I felt that SMEs were under-served, because these nine sectors are mainly led by top teams with leaders from the large established business community. The Minister says that the latter is not true. I won't talk about that right now. I am looking for a way of getting these societal challenges out of these top sectors. I really do consider it that way. The Minister says that the top sectors are not a straitjacket, but a crowbar and a tool. Excuse this long interruption, Mr. President. I ask the Minister the following question: what does it look like in concrete terms if the Minister wants to put social challenges more at the centre of attention and to draw up agendas for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u25	In the end, I'm not interested in those top sectors. I am concerned that prosperity and employment in the Netherlands are earned in a sustainable way. I want to achieve that by doing things that are good for the world. The Dutch companies can do the same. That needs to be organized. How can Dutch business mean as much as possible in the world and how can it create as much employment and prosperity as possible in the Netherlands? We set up these top sectors back then. We have been working very hard in these top sectors for six years. It's a shame to break down what's built up and effective. However, it is very wise not to regard it as a goal. It is also important that this is not perceived as a straitjacket. This means that we have sent it very strongly. This means that more than 60% of the activities now involve cross-sectoral and thematic cross-cutting joint projects. That will have to go on and on. It must not be the case that things are protected within a sector; that is certainly not the case. A sector is meant for cooperation and for doing new things. Cooperation is mainly carried out with other sectors, precisely in the way in which Mr Verhoeven is constantly approaching this. In my opinion, therefore, I have no opponent at all in Mr Verhoeven. He wants us to focus even more on these societal challenges. I have now made it clear that that is why I am here. I have expressed my willingness to further this during this cabinet period, including by working on agendas per social challenge. I believe that I can make a good move for the next cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u26	I'm gonna keep going on this theme. The companies to which the Minister refers are billions of companies, such as Shell, DSM and ASML. We've been working with these companies for six years. They are supported, including by means, by the Cabinet. Is it not time, after all these years of support, for them to stand on their own feet and face these challenges independently? This will enable resources and administrative attention to be paid to innovation within SMEs. Hasn't the time come?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u27	No, absolutely not. I have to defend why I discriminate against SMEs. Why do I give 65% of the Wbso to SMEs, when it accounts for only 40% of the innovation? I have to defend that. I can also defend that, because SMEs include the skills and start-ups. That is where the innovation takes place. With a view to the future, we need to talk about innovation, so we need to pay particular attention to start-up policy and skill-up policy. I will say the necessary about the financing later. We must involve SMEs as much as possible in the top sectors policy. The MIT scheme, from the VVD Group, has been provided with additional money through amendments for several years in order to involve SMEs. We are already consistently in the process of promoting SMEs. We do that for very good reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u28	My question is whether these billions of companies still need state aid after six years of support and good cooperation. Can't they do without us? In that case, we can put our energy, which in our opinion the billions of companies no longer need, into the smaller ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u29	I am very happy with the billions of companies we have in the Netherlands. I am very happy with the billion-dollar company VDL, which is constantly growing and taking over a factory that was about to fire the last 1,500 employees, but where 4,000 people are now working. ASML has bound a range of SMEs. Every Monday I go to business. Most innovative companies in the country are all somehow connected to ASML. This company operates on the high-tech tip of the world market. ASML works with the highest standards, which it also imposes on its suppliers. ASML helps the suppliers with innovation, which means that the suppliers are fully involved. The same applies to AkzoNobel, BASF, Philips and Shell. I am very glad that we have these big companies, that we have them and that the link with SMEs in the Netherlands is so strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u30	That's not an answer. I too am pleased with all these billions of companies, but the question was whether they could not stand on their own feet. I'm asking that for the third time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u31	I have already answered twice; I will not answer for a third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u32	What stings is this. However, Mr Verhoeven rightly said that the money we spend on top sector policy should be used in the long term to promote a sustainable economy in a sustainable society. That is also what I was talking about. We have to let things go, because then we will find new ways to the truly sustainable economy. I would like to draw your attention to the projects which are currently partly financed by taxpayers' money, for example in the agri-top sector. One of the projects financed in this sector is aimed at preventing bone and wing fractures in chickens for fattening, because it would cause serious economic damage if many chicks with broken wings were rejected at slaughter. Of course, it is fine that we encounter 1% fewer animals with broken wings, but if the whole sector is in all ways contrary to a sustainable future, should we spend our money on this kind of quasi-innovative and quasi-R&D projects? That's what my question was about. Perhaps the Minister could comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u33	I think the Dutch agro sector is an important Dutch solution for a global challenge. A global challenge is that there will be 7 billion people in the world and the middle class is also growing. There is an increasing demand for food with a higher quality. The Netherlands can offer this high quality food, which has been produced in a very efficient way with little water and little pesticides, on the world market. We can also share the knowledge we have in the Netherlands with companies in other countries, so that they can also benefit from it. That is also part of our agro-exports. This whole sector makes an important contribution to solving global problems. That does not mean that things are happening within that sector that Mrs Ouwehand was critical of is and will remain. It is perhaps also due to her and her group that animal welfare requirements are high in the Netherlands, that we have the lead in Europe and perhaps also in the world in this area. I think that is important for several reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u34	There are, of course, positive developments, including in this cabinet. Yesterday there was the climate summit organised by the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. There we saw direction indicators towards a more sustainable society, including the call for plant food to contribute to feeding the world and reducing environmental pressure. We seem to be at a crossroads. On the one hand the direction indicators are clear, but on the other we continue to invest in those old paths. My plea is: let go of that! Let go of those old vested interests, because the future lies in those new avenues that the cabinet has already explored. Can the Minister promise that this vision of the future will also be reflected in the top sectors policy, that the old paths will be abandoned and that sustainability will really be at the heart of the matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u35	I have indicated where, according to the cabinet, growth in the world should come from, where growth in the Netherlands should come from. I have indicated what is responsible growth and what is not responsible growth. If we want to work on societal challenges in the world, we must do so in such a way that it is all in order from the point of view of sustainability, the conditions for keeping animals in the agro-industry. Our vision of how the economy should develop in the future in the Netherlands and in the world and our ambition to help solve the challenges in the world, of course, get their translation into all parts of Dutch business, and thus also into the top sectors in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u36	I have another question on the same subject. Perhaps the Minister will reply later in his speech. Then I'll stop right now. I have already raised a question on the EZ budget framework during a number of budgetary discussions. All expenditure within it should promote an aspect of sustainability. The Minister gave me figures on this last time. I recall that these figures showed that 40% of the funds were already in line with them. The question was: where are we this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mrs. Van Tongeren is going through a bit. There's no other way to do that in an interruption. She talks about sustainability ambitions. However, there are different sustainability ambitions. In the Framework Decision EZ grants, we have identified three dimensions in terms of sustainability: economic sustainability, environmental sustainability and social sustainability. That's the famous model of People, Planet and Profit. The 2015 Van Tongeren motion describes sustainability more closely. This was ultimately translated by us in the drafting of the motion in line with the societal challenges set out in Horizon 2020. That is the European programme. These included health, food security, renewable energy, climate and efficient soil and processing aids. This is therefore a more limited definition than the definition contained in the Framework Decision EZ grants. Mrs Van Tongeren asks what the outcome is. It had in mind that 40% of EZ's money benefits sustainability, according to the definition it uses for that purpose. In the meantime, that percentage is at 72, I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u38	I think that's a very nice improvement. Can MPs find that anywhere? Did I miss an attachment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u39	I have put this on the website www.bedrijfsmeidinbeeld.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u40	Thank you, Minister. On to the 100%, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u41	Minister, continue your response. Where are you on the "space for renewal" block? Can you almost start with the block "entrepreneurship"? That's what I'm asking in view of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u42	I'm gonna be working on this for a while. If I am not interrupted, which of course is the wish of every ruler, I must be able to do this block in half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u43	I know rulers who love to discuss things very much. The same applies to Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u44	I like them to listen to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u45	You'd better get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mr Ziegs, Mrs Mulder and Mr Bruins asked me to increase the budget for the MIT scheme (Mkb Innovation Incentive Scheme Top sectors) so as not to let it go down. The MIT scheme is the one to ensure that we involve as many SMEs as possible in the top sectors policy. There has been no phasing-out of this MIT scheme. We have maintained the government's budget for this. We have made available a total of 35 million national money this year. The provinces added 20 million. However, part of that 35 million was added to the budget by way of EZ's budget on the initiative of the VVD Group. I don't have any more money to add. All the EZ budget items have been wrung out; I can assure the Chamber that. If I have to find half a million dollars for something to happen in Drenthe, I don't know where to get it. I cannot just take millions out of a budget to add them to a system in a structural way. In recent years, this money has occasionally become available. What I can do this year is make a change in the rate of payment. The money comes for part of the Empire and part of the provinces. The money flow that comes from the Empire is partly through the Province Fund. The MIT projects have a certain spending pattern. If I allow the government to make money available in line with the spending pattern of the MIT projects, it is possible to keep the contributions of the government within the budget for 2017 at the same level as in the current year 2016. I hope that I will do what Mr Ziengs, Mrs Mulder and Mr Bruins have intended. Mrs Ouwehand, who has the right to speak most of everyone in our country in this regard, asked for an investment fund to be set up to promote exports...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u47	I would just like to make one comment. I am very pleased with this, because it is what these companies are about to do, and it is what concrete jobs are about. I think it is very classy that the Minister was able to find the money on his budget in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you. It's a total of 55 million. 20 million comes from the provinces. They are very closely involved in this. With the approach of the Chamber, which I have technically translated into the year 2017, I have been able to keep the amount that the government contributes at 35 million. From the year 2017 onwards, there is no coverage for the multiple in the EZ budget. So we fall back to a level of 29 million for the government, instead of the 35 million we will contribute in 2017. Mrs Ouwehand has asked to invest in an investment fund to promote the export of successful Dutch pop music. At her request, I think she does; perhaps not, then I was lucky, but I'm sure she will know.For the period 2017-2020, Minister Bussemaker has made available a maximum of €500,000 each year from the Fonds Podiumkunsten for the promotion and marketing of Dutch pop music abroad. So in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, four years in a row, there is €500,000 available for the promotion and marketing of Dutch pop music. I know that this is largely from an initiative taken by Mrs Ouwehand. In addition, Ms Bussemaker, the Minister of OCW, is also making €190,000 available this year to launch this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u49	Brief question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u50	I am indeed aware of this and the Party for Animals is very pleased with it. Traditionally, Economic Affairs also contributes to the promotion of Dutch pop music abroad. There is a plan by the Pop Coalition, which was embraced by Minister Bussemaker. It will be a public-private partnership. The Pop Coalition is putting money into it and asking the government for money. Minister Bussemaker said: I find that interesting, work it out, because I want something with that. Would the Minister for Economic Affairs be prepared to contribute to this from his ministry, as was the case in the past? Can he make that promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u51	No, because I don't have any money on the budget for that. The government makes €500,000 available for the promotion and marketing of Dutch pop music abroad for four years. I think that is a substantial contribution. We have a top creative industry. Within the top creative industry, I will see whether the connections have been optimally established and whether the possibilities available have been used to the full.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u53	Fine. I would like to thank the Minister for informing us about this, at least that is how I understand it. It's actually a bit of a point of principle. The cultural budget is, of course, always under pressure. Because it really is a promotion of Dutch bands and dance-acts that can contribute to the Dutch national product, I ask the Minister if he agrees with me that there is a role for EZ in this area. That the biggest bite for support lies with OCW, I agree with him. But also EZ should always be a partner in this policy. Does the Minister share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u54	I would not go beyond what I have just said. The Verhoeven asked me to respond to what he said about blockchain. Blockchain is the encrypted information spread over many computers, which is going to offer very interesting opportunities for the future. I am not saying that for Mr Ziengs, because he knows that. It is an interesting technology, which offers many opportunities, but also has many challenges, because many problems still have to be overcome. Of course, that's always the case when you're doing something completely new. There's a lot in here. We have established a top-level ICT team, led by Mr Penning de Vries, in collaboration with the FinTech Envoy Willem Supposedly. They're working to form a blockchain coalition. The purpose of this blockchain coalition is to develop basic and applied knowledge in this area through public-private cooperation. I therefore welcome this development and also Mr Verhoeven's initiative to boost this new technology through SBIR. I will go into this in more detail when we consider the amendments. Mr Ziengs asked what my digital agenda looks like for the long term. As with Mr Smaling's question, I would be able to give a full account of this, but at least let me try to make it shorter. I found it very right that Mr Ziengs started his contribution on the digital agenda, because the digital world is, of course, the great growth of the future. There must be a great deal of employment in the future. If you make the most of the possibilities of the combination of ICT and the Internet and are at the forefront of it, you create many opportunities for yourself. The application of digital technologies can also make an important contribution to what Mr Verhoeven spoke about, namely global societal issues, i.e. the issues of care and mobility: in the world, but certainly also in the Netherlands. We have a good starting position to take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation. We have a lot of highly educated people on high incomes close together. They make more use of the Internet than in almost any country in the world. There are only a few countries where that happens even more. Their connection to the Internet is also unique, because in the Netherlands everyone has access to high-speed internet and often they have two or three possibilities to use high-speed internet on a landline or mobile. We have the largest internet hub in the world in Amsterdam, we are the country through which America is connected to Europe. We therefore have great opportunities in this area. I sent a new digital agenda to the Chamber for the summer, in which I worked on all this further. I think it's a good thing that the team I just mentioned is now at work. The ICT team is working on this. We have made a total of 40 million available for the years 2016 and 2017. That team is working with the Team Smart Industry and I am truly convinced that we have great opportunities in this area for the future. There are also a number of problems to be solved. The cyber threats are large and we have not yet found the right answers on the whole line. There is a great deal of abuse of the Internet, and we who stand for good use suffer from it. We must try to keep that abuse going. We have a huge shortage of skilled people. That is the case throughout Europe and certainly also in the Netherlands. I can already see that progress is lagging behind what is possible. There is stagnation due to the fact that there are not enough people available. In the smart application of ICT in areas such as healthcare, we still have a lot of catching up to do. If there were more good people available for that, we would go a long way further. Mr Graus has advocated a cybersecurity centre for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u55	In the first instance, you noticed that I wanted to limit my contribution to the transmission of signals which I have encountered and which we have all come across, but which are about to stand out at some point. One of the reactions I received from the report I offered to the minister was from a lecturer of a rock. He said: you have to make sure that there are plenty of boys and girls who have been in the Netherlands for a few years now and can do that job, because that's what they're trained for at my school. Only they don't get their diploma because they're not yet powerful. They can get to work in a professional capacity, but they are not accepted because they do not pass their diploma. What happens next? Entrepreneurs are going to hire Greeks or Poles, who are certainly not powerful in the language, but can do the job. Can the minister think along with these people, with this teacher, to tackle this problem? We have the professionals, but they don't get their degrees here because they don't meet the language requirements, and then we bring professionals into the country that aren't powerful in the language either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u56	I fear that only a small proportion of people who come to the Netherlands through immigration do not have knowledge migration, so immigrants who come to the Netherlands through family reunification, through asylum applications and such routes are really useful here. That is not the solution to the problem. Of course, we must focus on helping the individual people who have something to offer and who have those opportunities as quickly as possible. This is primarily in their own interests, but it is ultimately in the interests of the community for which they can then work again. I think it is important that that happens. I also know that my colleagues Asscher and Bussemaker are well aware of this and that they are also keen on it. I would like to contribute to this myself where I can, but I say with all due respect what Mr Monasch has to say about this: it is not the solution to the problem. It's mostly doing justice to those people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u57	We all know that the solution to the problem does not exist. The solution to the problem consists of several solutions. Fortunately, we have a country in which we must give people who remain here as recognised refugees and their children a place. I mentioned the example of people who have had a very good vocational training here for a few years, who can also do that, but cannot get to work afterwards, because they have some language disadvantage. Couldn't you ease the demands for them or give them a little longer time to meet them? Put it off for a while so they can get to work. I say this mainly because it's a group of professionals for the MBO. That's what I'm talking about right now. There is a great need for this in small and medium-sized enterprises. Let's give them a place within that SME fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u58	I don't know if you can start working as an ICT specialist in Dutch SMEs when you come from Afghanistan, Iran or Syria. I can imagine that such a person has certain knowledge that can be further focused and developed in the Netherlands. However, he will have to do so himself. He will also have to learn the language himself. He must be helped and there are opportunities for that. It is important to take advantage of these opportunities. I think that we should always be aware of this. I think Mr Monasch's suggestion is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u59	I am not interested in a specific country, but the entire ICT at ABN AMRO is done by Indians. Hundreds of people are working on that on the Zuidas. I'm interested in the plumber, the hunting painter and the street maker. Those are skilled workers that need a lot of work. Take a look at the shipyards and you will see that now Greeks or Poland are being flown in for this work. They are no more powerful than someone who is just here for a few years, but there is a need for these people. I'm not looking for a contradiction, but I'm seeing a structural problem in the economy, which means we can't give specialist workers a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u60	Now that Mr Monasch is on a broader scale than I initially thought, I agree with him. All those who have a residence permit for the Netherlands must help to build the Netherlands. This is important for them and for the Netherlands. We can use their knowledge and commitment very well. We must help them to quickly learn the language and to quickly transform their knowledge and interest into something that is important for employers. This is a matter of general interest. The commitment to this must have the attention of both Minister Asscher, Minister Bussemaker and myself. Mr Graus called for a cybersecurity centre for entrepreneurs. The National Platform Crime Control has started the Cybersecure SME pathway. That is a partnership of Security and Justice, Economic Affairs, Police, Public Prosecutor's Office and business. The aim of this process is to provide concrete advice to small and medium-sized enterprises. For this purpose, safeinternets.nl has been established. A sector-specific approach has been developed with SMEs The Netherlands, the National Entrepreneurship Service and the Chamber of Commerce. We offer security scans to SMEs. With these activities, we are moving a long way towards what Mr Graus is aiming at. The Minister of Security and Justice is a coordinating minister when it comes to cybercrime. I think there will be much more work to be done on this issue in the future. Together with VNO-NCW and SMEs, the Netherlands, we will examine what intensifications may be needed. It is too early to say that this particular centre should be added and that so much money should be made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u61	I am aware of what the Minister says. The sector is, too, but stakeholders say that they do not receive sufficient information on current digital threats. The National Cyber Security Centre operates under the flag of the Ministry of Security and Justice. Smaller companies, in particular, are not able to cope with this. Larger companies have the money, the power and the power to arm themselves, but smaller companies do not. They specifically asked for this. They believe that with EUR 10 million, I have not invented a good approach. I understand that cybercrime costs 10 billion a year, and those costs are now borne by everyone. The 10 million euros can be recovered very quickly. That is why I have tabled this proposal. I prefer to see this placed at the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u62	Mr Graus is selective in what he is putting forward here. Everyone knows at this time of election programs, elections and an approaching cabinet formation that he needs 10 million, 100 million or a billion for something. Everyone also knows how to say that he needs his own minister on his subject. This month started with the trajectory I just described. We share the importance that Mr Graus attaches to this. We are now working on this very concretely, together with organised business. Through websites that are accessible to everyone, we offer practical things. We also offer individual security scans. I am also very willing to continue to follow that and to see what else is needed in the future. I expect that, given the increasing importance of ICT applications, the risk and attractiveness of criminals to commit cybercrime will increase and we will have to do more about it. So I cannot rule out the need for further intensification, perhaps in the direction suggested by Mr Graus, but it is too early at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u63	I'm standing here, but I'm not making all this up myself. Every representative of the people is here on behalf of the farms, on behalf of the people and the people, and I too am on behalf of the animals. It makes sense that I'm trying to get something extra from the minister. I don't make that up all by myself. It can only be said that several MPs have complained that SMEs do not have sufficient access and want to have access through the government, preferably to Economic Affairs, because the Ministry of Security and Justice is failing. The first complaint is always that SMEs do not receive loans and banks do not take up their duties, but this is the second. During my round, the request was made to try to do something about it. It costs 10 billion a year, but with a few million, that can be dealt with. Maybe it's gonna earn itself back, too. Cybercrime is the future. We need to do something about it now. On behalf of the SMEs, I am now asking for that entrance at EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u64	On behalf of SMEs? Together with SMEs, the Chamber of Commerce, we have set up this platform. Several parts of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in this case the National Entrepreneurship Service Netherlands, as well as the Chamber of Commerce, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are involved. In addition to Security and Justice, EZ is involved. We set that up this month. That's what we can do right now. We need to see what the effects of this are. I believe that SMEs still want 10 million, but, as I said, I think that is too early. First, we need to see how what we've set up is developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u65	I do not want to ask another question, Mr President, but I did not say that SMEs want 10 million. I said it might take 10 million to tackle that 10 billion. And I said it might be self-deserving. That's different than having $10 million. I didn't say that. That must be made clear, even to the minutest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u66	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u67	I thought there was an amendment tabled by Mr Graus, which also asked for 10 million. That is why I have chosen these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u68	Also, of which I'm aware. Mrs Vos will have the floor, but not after I have asked both the Minister and Members of Parliament to put the questions and answers briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u69	I have a quick question. Do I understand that the Ministry of EZ is in the process of identifying whether such a centre is needed and, if so, what the objectives of such a centre should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u70	No. The lead is with Security and Justice. We have started this process together with Security and Justice. The National Platform Crime Control has come up with this trajectory, in which all the parties I have just mentioned have been working together since this month. This is done in a very practical way and is aimed at SMEs. I'd like to see how that works out, how it works, and what the results are. For the future, however, I do not want to rule out anything, because this is a field 'in development'. I am not going to say 'no' to anything that may prove necessary in the future. This is what we are doing now, which we think is good and whose results we want to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u71	There was a working group on the digital economy and it recommended such a centre from EZ, because many entrepreneurs suffer from this. They think it would fit better from EZ than from Justice. I just heard the Minister talk about RVO, SMEs and VNO-NCW. To what extent is the Ministry of EZ involved in the needs inventory of business?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u72	We are very much involved in this. I also greatly appreciate the commitment of my colleagues in the field of security and justice on this issue. I have also noticed that the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator is very actively involved in this. I myself have already experienced about five or six meetings of a group of ministers on this subject. It covered all aspects of cybercrime, as well as the desired solutions and measures. I therefore believe that it is being done in the right way and that this is well received by the Ministry of Security and Justice. I also think that what EZ has to offer is well deployed. I'd also like to continue working under that direction of security and justice. I would also very much like to keep an eye on the importance of this for SMEs, and in this interest of SMEs, I will continue to provide the input of EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u73	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr Verhoeven spoke about the cookie law. The irritation he has and the others have about what's going on with those cookies, I think we all have. We have distinguished between different types of cookies. We have said: certain things you do not have to report, but with other things that concern privacy, you have to report what you intend to do. It is about individual data from people, so they must give individual consent to this. But you can see that, in practice, this is going to be difficult. I feel that you are asked for the same thing 10 or 20 times and have to give the same answer every time, and that question is always asked in different ways. That doesn't work out well. I don't have the answer yet. I think that if you give others an opportunity to do something with your personal data, you should consciously consent to it. That's what I think, driven from the point of view of privacy. We are now working on this in two ways. The first is that we consult with the field to ensure that consent is sought in a clear and less intrusive, more practical way. Nor should such authorisation be requested more frequently than is necessary. The second way is that we want to see if we can make an important contribution to solving the problem through the browsers, and the companies that create, maintain and deliver the browsers. We can't take care of that ourselves, because we're no match for Microsoft and Google. That must therefore be done from the European Commission. She's working on that, too. The first results were still insufficient, so the Commission will have to continue to do so. So we can do something in our own country, but we also need to look at whether improvements can be made in this respect through that angle of view of the browsers. I recognise the problem as expressed by Mr Verhoeven and I am working on solutions in the way I have just formulated, taking into account the importance of privacy protection. I shall now turn to cooperation with the region. The spokesmen of the groups of the Labour Party, the CDA, the VVD and those of other groups have focused in particular on the Eindhoven region.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u75	I will, having heard what the Minister said about the cookie law and the possible possibilities through the e-Privacy Directive and the browser companies, be pleased to continue to follow that. I thank the Minister for that. I have one other question, which has already been answered in writing. It's about the Startup Fest. In the context of the block on digitisation, I would like to ask one additional question, Mr President. Or will the Minister come back on the more digital subjects?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u76	I can say something about the Startup Fest, but perhaps it is best if I do so as a result of an interruption by Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u77	Do this briefly, Mr Verhoeven. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u78	We have found that StartupDelta's activities, such as organizing the Startup Fest, compete with what other, private organizations do. They just do it on their own, without government subsidies. Those private organizations think that what StartupDelta does is just the same as what they do, but StartupDelta finances it with public money. The Minister has written: this is a more general approach from the government's chasing role. However, we say that it is a rather concrete form of competition on a private initiative. I therefore ask the Minister whether he would like to be even more specific about the tension between what the government is doing in this area and what business is doing. In this case, I think it actually looks a bit like competition from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u79	Yes, yesterday there was such a big meeting at the Van Nelle building in Rotterdam. It was about the climate. That meeting was also organised by the government. The meeting for those start-ups was a fruit of the collaboration between companies and the government. We have intensified the start-up policy, primarily by pressing from the VVD Group. We have also found Mrs Kroes willing to commit herself to this. It has worked with its team in two years in such a way that the Netherlands is currently Europe's third fastest growing start-up environment. We really got that going. A part of getting started was a large-scale Startup Fest organised from Amsterdam, but which took place in sixteen places in the country. 30 different activities have been organised. Some of these activities are entirely private and another part is organised jointly by the government and private parties. It is not that we have kept private parties away, we have always done our best to involve as many private parties as possible. I think it is very nice in the whole sphere of business and start-ups when this ultimately happens all the way from the business community, where the government only provides support. Mr Verhoeven says that business must lead the way. That's also the way I want to approach it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u80	That also sounds good and some of the things the StartupDelta has done are also very good. I have already indicated this in my first contribution on Tuesday. This particular point, organising a congress with an entrance fee of €1,000 per person, is a direct form of competition with existing congresses in the same place for the same target group. Can't we just agree that StartupDelta will stop doing that and continue with all the other good activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u81	No decision has yet been taken on Startup Fest for the following year, let alone on how exactly it should be organised. I will include Mr Verhoeven's comment in the further decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u82	The last block was about fast internet. The Minister has answered many questions in writing, for which he thanked. I still have a question about the fast internet. I had asked the Minister to relax the state aid rules in Europe and to find support from other countries in order to do so. I read in the Minister's written reply that he is going to look into it. We want him to take action instead of looking at it. Perhaps the Minister could clarify what he means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u83	I think Europe's state aid rules are logical. I understand why they put it that way. There are a few things in there that you can question. One example is whether there are companies that have a viable plan within a period of three years. Would you possibly get in the way of that if you were to support another company? That's the kind of thing that's in there. You may wonder if it should be planning within a period of three years. Is it okay to wait that long, should that period not be shortened to two years or a year? Following on from what Mrs Mulder has said about it and has said about it before, I think that we should be critical of aspects of this policy. I will see when the next opportunity is to discuss this at European level. Then I'll inform the Chamber in advance of the angle I want to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u84	It is correct: we have discussed this before in the House of Representatives. That was in May 2016. At that time we saw that a country like France was actually on our line and wanted to see if the three-year period could be reduced by a year or maybe even by two years. All initiatives by residents in those grey areas who do not now have access to the fast internet should wait until there is a possible plan from a provider who wants something in the region concerned. That, of course, is what is killing all these initiatives. This doesn't happen much, and that's something that's really bothering the CDA. I can imagine that there are other countries in Europe that also want the deadline to go back, which puts pressure on investors to be clear about their plans and to inform the region more quickly. That also gives the region more room. If companies don't want it, they can pick it up on their own. Then they no longer have to wait for a decision that may ever come again. The point associated with this for the CDA is the number of megabits per second, so the download speed if you want to get something on your computer. This is now at 30 Mbps in a European context. You should have at least 50 Mbps to be future-proof. You'd rather have that it's reliable and that you know what it's gonna do for you. These are all preconditions that we can give to Europe from the Netherlands. We can say that we want to achieve this. Of course, that is a long-term process, but I would like to make a firm effort by the Minister, because of course I have a motion to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u85	I love motions, so I'd like to leave that to Mrs. Mulder. I agree with her on the substance. We've connected 95% of the people in the Netherlands to high-speed internet. I think it is important that we also reach the rest, which also wants to be connected to fiberglass. But we know, of course, that these are remote plots and that you have to make high costs for one plot. It is then a question of whether you want to support this financially as local and provincial authorities. If that's what you want, then the question is whether you might be driving another company in the wheels if you support one company with something. Mrs Mulder does not want us to ride wheels, but she does want us to use as many opportunities as possible to connect the whole country to high-speed internet. I share her ambition. In my view, it brings forward real points of interest. I also intend to approach that way. It is true that in other parts of Europe where they are far less far away, they do not really like it when too high demands are made, because they suffer from them. So it's not a win-win case in advance. I think it is important that we tackle this in the way Mrs Mulder has outlined. I intend to do that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u86	Please continue. I will give you a moment to finish this block and then perhaps ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u87	I will. I will deal with a subject raised by the spokesmen of the Labour Party, the VVD and the CDA, among other things, namely the position of the Eindhoven region. A letter from my colleague from I and M was cited and noted that Eindhoven was not considered as a mainport. That's true. Eindhoven is not a mainport; so do I. But that's not the point in itself, because it's not like you get extra money when you're mainport. The point is that we have three key economic areas in the Netherlands. These key areas must therefore also be given special attention in terms of investments in accessibility, infrastructure and space. Those three areas are the two mainports Rotterdam and Schiphol and the brainport Eindhoven. Mainports are mainly related to logistics and transport flows. The brainport region with its surrounding area is an important hotspot for the innovative manufacturing industry. I welcome the initiative of the brainport region to develop an agenda for action for the future in order to further develop and exploit the already great potential of the area, which has already been achieved. I am very positive about the way local authorities behave and also about the way in which the province of North Brabant does so. I also think it is very nice to see that the business community really supports this. This means that, together with the province of North Brabant and the municipalities in that region, we, as the Empire, will be able to look at how we can jointly set up an action agenda and make the best possible use of the resources available to the various governments and the efforts of the business community. We can therefore look at exactly what these actions should consist of and how they can be financially adapted. I think that is an important subject. I think Amsterdam, Schiphol, is important, I think the Rotterdam port is important, but I also think the Eindhoven brainport is of the greatest Dutch interest. This isn't a regional thing. The brainport is one of the tractors of the country and therefore also needs the extra that the Chamber asks for. I intend to pay that attention to it in the way I have just formulated. I will do so by working on a joint action agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u88	Did you come to the end of the "space for renewal" block?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u89	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u90	Then so do the members. I give the floor to Mrs Vos for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u91	It is good to hear that the Minister takes this action agenda seriously, but the input of me and my colleagues was mainly about the cabinet putting aside the main advice of the Environment and Infrastructure Council (Rli), namely the advice to draw up a strategy climate of establishment 2040 on the three main economic core areas. In its opinion and conclusion, the government says: we are not going to; we are only going to talk about the port of Rotterdam and Schiphol. The pain of the region-brainport is that it provides a lot of added value to the euro, but that the government does not respond to the establishment policy. It is a question of the government taking the region wide in terms of location policy and, therefore, thinking about cultural facilities and infrastructure, in short, about all those things that can make it attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u92	The Infrastructure and Space Structure Vision, for which my colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment has the primary responsibility, has identified three key economic areas. Two of them are generally considered as mainport, but the third is also of great importance as a brainport. That is why we from EZ are very closely involved. All kinds of EZ activities are aimed at that brainport. Of the Wbso alone, 16% of all the money ends up in the brainport. Recently, we supported international education from both the EZ budget and the OCW budget with the support of our colleague from Finance. That was a valuable addition for the short term. For the longer term, it is logical to re-determine the distribution from the municipal fund according to the specific position and national importance of the brainport. That will happen, because that is where the longer term solution has to be found. For the short term, the region already has a great deal of attention from my colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment and from me; we do so with conviction. We have recently added to this in cooperation with a number of colleagues, and for the longer term we have shown the municipal fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u93	I understand that you agree with the opinion of the Council on the environment and long-term infrastructure, but not in the short term. That's actually what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u94	I don't know how else to say it than I just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u95	It is good to hear how the Minister looks at the advice of the Rli from an economic point of view. According to the Rli, it is important to consider everything in one piece: the port of Rotterdam, Schiphol, the Big Data Hub Amsterdam and brainport Eindhoven. It is important not to separate that from each other. How does the Minister view that particular point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u96	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u97	Does the Minister conclude that you could actually see that brainport as a mainport?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u98	It's not gonna do us any good if we make Eindhoven a mainport instead of a brainport. As a mainport, you don't get more money than a brainport. A mainport has a specific value, among other things, because of its significance for logistics, for transport flows. The brainport is important for the innovative manufacturing industry. I think Schiphol and the port of Rotterdam are important, but I think the Dutch innovative manufacturing industry is equally important. For me, there is no difference in gradation between mainport and brainport. The arrangements do not make any difference in terms of financial treatment either. It's about what you want to do with it eventually, and I'm willing to do something with it. We are already doing that, we have strengthened this recently and for the longer term it can get an extra accent through the municipal fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u99	I think the Minister is 90% right with his approach, but I have heard the sounds from the brainport region and read a number of letters. This shows that they are very pleased with the use of the cabinet, but there is one element missing: the infrastructure is seen as a mainport. D66 is very much in agreement with that, we have often called for it, but there is a section missing on the regional location climate. Does the Minister think that he is getting enough on this point and that it is being done properly as with the other main ports, or is there anything else that needs to be done? I think a small point can bridge the gap and everyone is satisfied with the government's commitment to the important region of Eindhoven and the brainport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u100	Mr Verhoeven points out that this is the centre of the Dutch innovative manufacturing industry, where a lot of innovation is taking place. They need a lot of technicians there at all levels, who are not getting enough in the Netherlands. As a result, they have to attract and bind a lot of people from abroad. It is important to take this into account in the facilities level and location climate of Eindhoven and its surroundings. I agree. I believe that this aspect should be carefully considered in the context of the review to be carried out within the framework of the Community Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u101	Good steps have been taken for the Eindhoven brainport, of which we all recognise the added value for the entire Dutch economy. I call on the Minister to make the most of it, in addition to strengthening the digital infrastructure, to do as much as possible to support the soft location factors in the location climate from the Reich, as is also happening for Rotterdam and Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u102	Yes, Mr Verhoeven's appeal is clear, but my appeal is to be very clear that all the municipalities are financed by the Municipal Fund. Whatever goes extra to one goes less to the other. It's as simple as that. We need to realize that. When we talk about Zeeland, we would like more money to go to Zeeland, and when it comes to Drenthe, more money to Drenthe. I believe that with all these justified regional interests there is one national interest and that is the national interest of the brainport. That is why I have just tried to say that I think it is reasonable that Mr Verhoeven's attention should be given in the context of the review of the distribution of the Community fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u103	The Minister continues. We start now with the block "entrepreneurship" and then we have the block "energy." I'm just gonna tell you where we are. The goal is still half past eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u104	Mr. Chairman. This is my first interruption. I assume you're going to give me as much time as other people. Only a few years ago, at EZ, there was always a great deal of attention to nanotechnology. There were even debates with three ministers. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs debated this a number of times a year. Between 2010 and 2016, there was 125 million euros available; until the end of this year, because then it is over. I would be very sorry if there were not in any way a continuation of the knowledge and expertise that has been built up and the gap that the Netherlands has in nanotechnology and innovation, if we look at what has been achieved with NanoNed and NanoNextNL. The Minister can refer to OCW and Infrastructure and Environment, but what can he do so that we can hold on to the gap that the Netherlands has achieved in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u105	Much is happening in the field of nanotechnology, especially in business. ASML is very advanced in lithography. In Amsterdam, important research activities are taking place in this area, which we also support. At Holst in Eindhoven there are large-scale activities in the field of sensor technology and nanoelectronics. EZ is directly and indirectly involved, through TNO. I think it would be useful to give an overview of our efforts in this area on a forthcoming occasion. I'll just find out what occasion that is. I will also indicate whether I believe that is sufficient, given the importance of this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u106	That would be very nice. We also discussed it in the previous debate. The Minister has already addressed it in the letter received by the Chamber, as he promised at the time. That's how I know him; he keeps his promises. I am considering tabling a motion on this or perhaps even an amendment. I would remind the Minister that there has been a positive evaluation report from the International Advisory Council. I know there's a lot of private money going on. That report says: Make sure you maintain those public-private partnerships and ensure that you continue to support a technology-based innovation programme in some form. I have spoken with people who have kicked NanoNed and NanoNextNL out of the ground in recent years and have worked very hard on it. It would be a great pity if we were unable to hold on to something that has been so much political attention and where relatively much money has gone to with the matching of business, it was 250 million, so a quarter of a billion dollars in the future and as the knowledge acquired and the lead. I hope the Minister shares that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u107	I see the importance of that. I also see the good example given in Belgium, in Leuven, where developments in nanoelectronics are really impressive. I will inform the Chamber about what is happening at the moment, particularly in the area of public-private cooperation. I think it is appropriate to include the angle of view mentioned by Mrs Gesthuizen. I will see what next opportunity I can take to give that overview to the Chamber. Then the Chamber will have the opportunity to discuss this further with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u108	The question we then ask during a general consultation is: when would there be such an overview?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u109	I just need to find a logical opportunity. We give the Chamber a lot of reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u110	Otherwise, we shall return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u111	I have to find a next opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u112	Finally, Mr Graus, briefly on this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u113	Madam President, I am only standing here for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u114	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u115	I've been sitting in my chair all night. I come to the Interrupt Microphone for the second time, and I'm being tapped right on my fingers. I talked about the third mainport, brainport Eindhoven. I share what Mr Verhoeven says. Our government is very active in our other mainports such as Schiphol Airport and the port of Rotterdam. In fact, I myself asked the ministers concerned to ensure that a future-proof and competitive plan is made, including for Schiphol. Motions have been adopted by me on this matter. However, I have the impression that this does not happen when it comes to brainport Eindhoven. There's a lot going on in the region. The Minister is right about that. He has a point there, but I do hear that the locational climate and a number of other things are not going to be kept decentralized. I ask the Minister another question, Madam President, and then I will try to keep myself as calm as possible for the rest of the evening. Is the Minister prepared, together with his officials in the Ministry, to draw up a future-proof and competitive plan to make brainport Eindhoven one of the world's top players in the future? I also asked for this for Schiphol and the port of Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u116	Schiphol is already one of the best airports in the world and is directly connected to 320 cities in the world. The port of Rotterdam is the largest port in Europe. That port is more than twice the size of the port of Antwerp and three and a half times the size of the port of Hamburg. He has a huge meaning for the country. There is also a great deal of policy, local, provincial and national, aimed at this. That's perfectly right. I find Eindhoven as important as the centre of the innovative manufacturing industry in the Netherlands. Many policies are also aimed at this. Following on from what Mr Graus said in the first term, I would point out that it is important to develop a common approach to this, to make the best possible use of the opportunities and to ensure that everyone contributes to the further possibilities from their own perspective and on the basis of their own capabilities. The plan that Mr Graus refers to is, I think, the same as the agenda for action that I have spoken about. The Empire will be happy to prepare them together with the brainport, together with North Brabant. I believe that I am dealing with this in the spirit of Mr Graus' request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u117	Can the Minister undertake to do so? I have actually asked his colleagues and I have received support for this from almost the whole Chamber. Then I don't have to make a motion. If the Minister is prepared to do so, it will save me the drawing up of a motion. I'd like a stick behind the door. I get the impression that it turns out that even when you talk to the actors involved, brainport Eindhoven does not get the attention she gives, for example, and rightly so, to Schiphol and the port of Rotterdam. I am very much in favour of that. The government has done well. However, I want brainport Eindhoven to receive the same attention. I want the same future-proof and competitive plan for that brainport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u118	I do not believe that we differ in substance. I have promised the Chamber on this point that it will be right, and that is what Mr Graus ultimately wants. I'm going into the third block, entrepreneurship. Let me first say something about funding. We have had many discussions about this in the Chamber. The Chamber has always told me that it was all wonderful what I said, but that the Netherlands, together with Malta or Greece, I do not know exactly what has been said, it would do the least good of all countries in Europe in terms of financing business. I believe that the financing of business is crucial for further economic development. It is important that good economic initiatives can be implemented and that money can be made available for this purpose. That is why the cabinet has done a great deal about it. I have worked very hard year in, year out to ensure that the necessary amounts have been made available with additional plans. Now you can see that that has had a result. In 2013, in the Netherlands, the rate of rejection of entrepreneurs' applications for funding was two and a half times higher than in the large euro area countries. Right now, it's even. At present, the decline in the number of rejections in the Netherlands is the largest of all euro countries. 70% of SMEs currently do not need bank loans. Those companies that do need it can get those loans. So the number of companies that can get funding is increasing, and fast. I think that was absolutely necessary. The government has done a lot for that. We now have guarantee arrangements. We have Qredits, which offers an alternative in the event of rejection. But above all, we have also provided funds for participation in the risk capital of companies. This is very important, especially for start-ups and scale-ups. We have set up various funds for this. We have also received support for this from the European Commission, through the European Investment Fund and the European Investment Bank. Furthermore, we have ensured that these funds have been set up in such a way that private parties have invested in them. At present, these funds amount to between 4.9 and 5.3 billion. That money is therefore available to invest in the Netherlands in particular in the risk capital of start-ups and scale-ups. At present around 1.7 billion have been used, which means that there are still a lot of growth opportunities in this area. All of the funds available, the guarantee schemes, our Qredit scheme, the alternatives that EZ has all initiated, has led to an improvement in the financing situation of Dutch industry, in particular SMEs. This could lead to further improvements in the future. So much for financing in a general sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u119	The criticism is that small businesses in particular are not given credit. If you take SMEs very widely, large SMEs will indeed receive little rejection. The Minister is aware of that. But the criticism was that small entrepreneurs in particular receive many rejections. The minister mentioned a whole range of measures, but he didn't say anything about the banks. What is the Minister doing to get the banks to lend a little more credit than they are now? That is often the criticism from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u120	The banks in the Netherlands have always given a lot of credit. I have noticed that they are now again active in recruiting entrepreneurs with plans, because they are interested in financing those plans. I have seen that the improvement in the funding currently being provided also benefits small SMEs, even the smallest. That growth is everywhere. I therefore believe that we are really on the right track with all the measures we have taken in recent years, and that we have already achieved significant improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u121	Unfortunately, I do not see this significant improvement, especially with those small entrepreneurs. Compared to the way banks in Belgium, France, England and Germany deal with SMEs in their lending, we are truly shocking. I know that the Minister has supported a number of measures, but the fact remains that the banks do not fulfil their social role. If the banks are bad, then we as a community, so as taxpayers, are going to save those banks. If the economy is bad, we ask the banks to help the entrepreneurs, but they just let down the entrepreneurs. I ask the Minister once again to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u122	Mr Öztürk generalises in a way that does not do justice to reality. The improvements I have talked about have been achieved and will continue. The banks have financed much more in the Netherlands than in other parts of the world. The number of rejections in the Netherlands is now equal to that in the large euro area countries. I therefore believe that the situation is really different from that described by Mr Öztürk. We had a problem in the Netherlands and we have worked hard for a number of years to tackle this problem. If we then see the results of this, we can be satisfied with it and try to hold on to it and build it even further, rather than saying that it is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u123	I support my colleague Öztürk. Rabobank and ING have made a big move and are increasingly helping entrepreneurs, but for example, about ABN AMRO, actually the state bank, the bank saved by the State, so by all taxpayers, we hear from many SMEs the complaint that it does not provide loans. I am referring in particular to the smaller appropriations, i.e. the appropriations up to €250,000. Of course you can't. The Minister is in fact, on behalf of the State, a co-shareholder of ABN AMRO. He could say to that bank: we saved you, so now you need to help our SMEs with an extra injection. The Minister of Economic Affairs can simply ask that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u124	I agree with what Mr Graus says about Rabobank and ING. I do not have any information on ABN AMRO which leads me to agree with Mr Graus's statement. I think that the Dutch banks have done a lot in the past to finance SMEs and that they are still willing to do so. They must, of course, take into account the risks they face and the demands they face, the Basel conditions. I believe that all banks can see this as one of their core tasks, which they are interested in. How exactly they do that, they fill in themselves. I do not have information on the basis of which I can disqualify one of the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u125	I don't mean to. The only thing I asked for in my initial contribution was to have that national savings bank, that state savings bank and also entrepreneurial bank, collect people's savings at a decent and real interest rate and then provide loans to companies. All this has been conceived because the banks no longer fulfil their old functions. I refer in particular to a bank that has been saved with big money, money from taxpayers and entrepreneurs, money from all of us. The Minister can say to that bank: we helped you, now you are going to give credit injections, including to small SMEs. The Minister could ask you that, couldn't he? One of the big bosses at that bank is a very good friend. The banks must return to their original position. It's okay for them to have a spin on their ears or some pepper in their ass.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u126	I would not consider ABN AMRO to be our national savings bank. Nor is it the government's ambition to keep that bank in government hands; that bank will be returned to the market in a controlled way. I think that in the Netherlands, the percentage of financing for SMEs from the business community was higher than in almost all other countries of the world. At the moment, we are trying to broaden that. We are now seeing that we can also support banks in their functioning by helping SMEs, the skills and start-ups with their risk capital. If this is strengthened, it will be easier for banks to provide responsible additional funding. We can do this with each other in different ways, and that is what we are doing. Mr Monasch based his input on his own experiences with SMEs in his own environment, in Friesland. I think this is the very best way to do that. We are working on all kinds of measures here. We often organize things with a high level of abstraction for many. That is also our task, but in the end it comes down to how it works out for people. At the beginning of my initial contribution, I said the positive effects of all the measures taken by the cabinet for people and businesses in this country. However, that does not mean that there are not a lot of things left in which we can achieve improvement. That is what you see best in the workplace, when you speak directly to the entrepreneurs involved, as Mr Monasch has done. I am grateful to him for the note he has given me on the basis of his experience. He has noticed a number of things about which I fully agree with him. I am thinking, for example, of the problems of hiring staff and the uncertainty that businesses feel about this, the lack of people with good technical training and the lack of an optimal link between education and demand on the labour market. According to Mr Monasch, you have to make SME proof of social security. He raised the question of whether small businesses should be insure of payment of wages in the event of illness or whether this should be regulated by the public authorities. There's all kinds of nice things to say about that. Mr Monasch is aware of the various reasoning behind this and the initiatives taken by the government in accordance with the social agreement, which Mr Monasch will not abandon either. However, what he particularly wants was that his conclusion "is that new legislation looks very closely at the impact of that legislation on SMEs. He calls that an SME test. We currently have a business impact test. In all this new legislation that Mr Monasch is referring to, we are looking at its impact on business. Within industry, particular attention is paid to SMEs. That is already happening at the moment, but I am not saying that that is enough. We shall look at this in the light of what Mr Monasch has said. We will do this together with SMEs. I will ask SMEs-Netherlands to work with me to see how the business impact test can work properly in practice, given the importance of SMEs, and whether tightening and improvements are possible. I think the SME test that Mr Monasch wants is important. This should be done in the context of the business impact test. We are already trying to do this as well as possible, but we are interested in ways of doing it better. We will discuss this with SMEs on the basis of what Mr Monasch has said. Mr Ziesgs spoke about the Dutch Venture Initiative. That's one of the funds I just talked about. The Dutch Venture Initiative is one of the major funds we have set up with the support of the European Commission. Then private companies stepped in. I have already dealt with this in general terms. We do not have the idea that there is an ideal situation when it comes to financing large social projects in the Netherlands, where private money and public money should be invested and which should be further developed and financed. Mr Ziengs knows that. I believe that there can still be streamlining in the initiatives we have for financing business. I see the need to keep up with the EFSI (European Fund for Strategic Investments), the European Fund set up by the European Commission to support this type of thing. It focuses on national investment institutions, which exist in almost all countries of Europe, but not in the Netherlands. That is why I am working with Mr Dijsselbloem to carry out an analysis this year and to make a proposal to indicate the possibilities for making progress in this area. In the course of this year, I will return to that. I will not go into start-ups and scale-ups now, because I have already done so. Mrs Mulder has said a lot about this, but I have already dealt with this on several subjects. I don't think it's necessary to deal specifically with thezzp'ers now. If so, I shall do so in the second term, if the Chamber so wishes. Perhaps I can answer Mr Graus's question about the phenomenon ofzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u127	Before you do that, there is a very short question from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u128	That question is about skill-ups. I asked: to what extent can the government, as a launching customer, make more use of sustainable maintenance and stimulate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u129	I think skill-ups are one of the points that we should pay particular attention to. We have a fantastic business in the Netherlands. We do very well in export, we are very competitive. We got the start-ups off the ground. I don't feel like we've already done everything we can at the skill-ups. We have helped companies in the Netherlands, which we really want to keep for the Netherlands, but they go to other countries because they have the best funding opportunities there at the time. I don't like it. So it's necessary to look extra at those skill-ups. So that's what we're doing right now. There are two issues at stake here. I have already indicated that we have more than 5 billion available to invest in the risk capital of growing companies. So those are also the skill-ups. I have also indicated that we are looking at the national funding institution which can also play an important role in this. So I think that is something that really needs to have that attention that Mrs Mulder is asking. I'm convinced of that, and I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u130	Will the Minister then come back specifically to this point in a letter on procurement? After all, billions are involved every year. We will soon have a general discussion on sustainable procurement. Will the Minister specifically mention this point and indicate what he will do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u131	I think Mrs Mulder is making a useful point here. If you want to support skill-ups, it can also be very useful to give those skills-ups the opportunity to develop their products in the Netherlands with the government, the state government, the province and the municipality as a launching customer and to show that they are successful in the Netherlands. That is also a very good basis for doing business elsewhere in the world. That is the aspect that I will look at as we communicate with the Chamber on this matter. Mr Graus spoke aboutzzp'ers. As he pointed out, there is a very large and diverse group behind it. He distinguished six types ofzzp'ers, but he could also put up a story that there are twelve different types ofzzp'ers. We now have more than a millionzzp'ers in the Netherlands. I'm happy about that, because they're people who take their own responsibility. They work on an individual basis for a company. They then work for another company again and take their knowledge from one company to another. This means that you can also spread innovation across business. Moreover, it is also very good that people themselves are in charge of their own acquisition, that they are in charge of their own business, that they are also in charge of aftercare and that they want to take responsibility for their insurance and pension. I think that this is an important development, because that is how many people bear the responsibility. It is also very good for business that they form an important part of the flexible shell. The Empire has three things to do. Firstly, there is also false self-employment. We need to take action against that. Secondly, we need to make the employership more attractive forzzp's. If you're a successfulzzp'er, you don't really have to have a threshold to employ one, two, three or maybe more people and develop yourself further. There is still room for improvement in this area. Finally, I would like to mention a certain level of protection thatzzp'ers should all reasonably be able to obtain fairly easily. It is important that they have access to it in a reasonably easy way. In this area, too, we can improve what is necessary. This is something that is happening in the field of my colleagues from SZW and Finance, but it is also happening in my own area. I intend to continue to approach the phenomenon ofzzp'ers in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u132	One of the presidents of the zzp association mentioned six types of zzp'ers. I also think there are many more, but we agree that there are around 1 millionzzp'ers. A lot of them have become aware of this, as I once became aware of it. I've been azzp'er, too. That was a very conscious choice as an entrepreneur. But a lot of people are forced to do it. I'll call that the victims. They are actually more or less forced to become zzp'er. In short: there are many types ofzzp'ers, forced or out of a conscious choice. My question to the Minister was: 'I did not hear him correctly about it 'whether there should be a task force within the Ministry of Economic Affairs, specifically for these 1 million entrepreneurs. There's a lot of them. Their interests are not optimally protected if you just drop them off at the SME Netherlands. It just isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u133	I agree with Mr Graus's analysis, namely that some of the zzp'ers I think the vast majority have chosen to be an zzp'er and also appreciates freedom and self-responsibility. In addition, part of thezzp'ers is actually employee. They're basically bogus self-employed. That is what we must reduce. I do not believe that you should do the correcting and further tightening of the policy on the three points I have just mentioned with a task force from EZ. I think that this is particularly important for my colleagues in SZW and Finance, which they are also carrying out at the moment. It is very good that the cabinet is working on this together. Within the Cabinet, we agree on this through a sub-committee and through separate consultations between directors. I think we have a good approach to this. I do not think that a tasforce has any added value at the moment, although the approach advocated by Mr Graus is one that I believe is in line with government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u134	I always observe the Minister's non-verbal communication. I'm glad he said "I don't think it's contributing." So he's not gonna close the door. I am grateful for that, or else he will say no; I know him long enough. Perhaps I am going to refer it to the Chamber, because I think it is the solution, and a lot ofzzp'ers with me. It could be a temporary task force. Of course, it doesn't have to be a permanent one. For the time being, now that we are dealing with these problems aroundzzp'ers, there must be a temporary task force within the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u135	We have an effective government organisation in the Netherlands. We have an effective government with effectively organised ministries. This means that we are very well able to pay attention to the things that are important within the structures of our ministries. We pay attention to pensions without having a task force for pensions. We pay attention to innovation without any task force innovation. We are also paying attention to thezzp'ers, as Mr Graus asks, without the need for a task force at the moment. In relation to what Mr Monasch said, I could go into more detail about the reduction in regulatory pressure. But I think I can now just say that I very much see the importance of reducing regulatory pressure. I'm in favour of rules, because if there are no rules, it's gonna be a mess. But I am above all in favour of rules that are necessary and do not hinder those desired activities. Where we are constantly working on new rules, we also need to be structured in cleaning up old rules. The Cabinet does the same. We had the ambition for this cabinet period to reduce regulatory pressure of 2.5 billion. I can tell you that we will also make it during this cabinet period. Mr Ziengs said that he believed that innovative entrepreneurs encountering problems with the rules should be helped. He's asking for a personal approach on that point. Mr Ziengs and I both know that there are hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. It cannot be that for everyone who contacts and asks for something, there is an official who will accompany him with everything. If it has ever been possible, it is no longer possible at this time, after all the reductions of the official organizations that have also been grafted from the VVD. We must organise the matter in such a way that, if there are signs from entrepreneurs, we can do them right. If individual entrepreneurs report, we have a window, www.spaartingels.nl, where any entrepreneur can indicate what he thinks is wrong with a rule. Then they pick it up and they're working on it. Entrepreneurs in a particular sector may also feel that something is not right with the rules in their sector. In that case, there is also the possibility to report that to us, to me. Then, together with the sector concerned, we will go through all the rules that the entrepreneurs have to deal with, and we will realize the solutions they want and which we also think are good. So we are very willing to cooperate in the individual approach via spaceingels.nl and in the approach by sector through what I just described. If entrepreneurs report to the Chamber of Commerce or the National Entrepreneurial Agency of the Netherlands with a specific problem, we will of course be able to speak to them within our possibilities and try to help them on the right path. It is not, however, that I have an entire organization at my disposal, with which Mr Ziengs can ensure that every entrepreneur can receive individual guidance from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u136	Nor was my contribution aimed at the fact that every entrepreneur who reports there would be personally assigned an official. In my speech, I spoke explicitly and with examples of entrepreneurs receiving innovation subsidies, but not getting through with their innovation, because they have to deal with other ministries that were going to bother them or slow down the process by not approving things. I mentioned the electric tractor. That's what my contribution was aimed at. That is why I asked the Minister to appoint a programme manager within the RVO and to see if they could solve these problems centrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u137	What Mr Ziengs says is very real. He also mentions the example of the electric tractor. We all know that electric tractors have the future. We cannot simply make all cars electric. We will also have to make trains, trucks, buses and tractors electric as part of the transition to renewable energy and a low carbon society. If there is a company that is ahead of electric tractors, but is in a bureaucratic fight about brakes that would or would not meet, then it is quite right that former Entrepreneur Ziengs should draw attention to them and say: that is not good. Then I say to Mr Ziengs: what you want is exactly what I want. That's what the Space programme is designed for in Rules. I see it as my responsibility that when such a case is reported, it is also taken up, that attention is given to it and that the problem is resolved. I see this as my task, and I would like to say this to Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u138	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u139	Mr. Chairman. I'm at the end of block three. That doesn't disappoint you, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u140	No, I'm not disappointed. I would also ask you to respond to all the amendments within this deadline, but first Mrs Mulder has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u141	My question was about an amendment, namely that on the SME. I thought it might be dealt with within this block, because it concerns funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u142	No, let us go through all the amendments at the end of the Minister's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u143	It would have been reasonable if I had already dealt with the SMKB in my term, but let me deal with the amendments later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u144	Fine. The last block: energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u145	The future-proof energy supply. I have just been disturbed by what Mrs Ouwehand said about this. She said at one point: you're in the process of saving energy, but then it's about a few petajoule extras and that's not that big a deal. You should know, Mrs Ouwehand, what I have to do at the moment and how much effort I have to make to comply with the agreement on energy in order to achieve 100 petajoules of additional energy savings, above the 1.5% per year that we already have to achieve under the European directive. 100 petajoule extra energy savings is, I believe, about the energy consumption of 1.2 million households in the Netherlands or at least something in that order of magnitude. That is what we are doing, on top of everything we already have to do on the basis of European directives. That's really a lot. We must not underestimate what is happening at the moment in the field of the transition to renewable energy. The background to this is the climate problem. It is about making our economies CO-poor and keeping global warming manageable with all its negative effects. For the latter, the reduction of CO emissions that has been agreed internationally must be achieved. We must also ensure that we make a very big contribution to this by saving energy and renewable energy. The cabinet is working on that. At the beginning of the cabinet period we started with 4% and now we are at about 6%; one and a half times as much. That is not a very impressive start, but it is impressive that we are already getting the analyses from the planning agencies that show that we are going to achieve our ambition to reach 16% of renewable energy by 2023. This is not 16% of electricity production, but 16% of all energy used in the Netherlands, i.e. in transport, for heating houses, in industry and also for electricity production. We are on the verge of 16% of them being sustainable in 2023. For the period thereafter, until 2050, when the economy needs to be transformed into a sustainable, low-carbon economy, we must have taken these important steps in order to take the next steps. We have come a long way in this cabinet period. We had set very high ambitions in the coalition agreement. In the energy agreement, we have received broad support from society for this. We're gonna get that 16% in 2023. I am currently working on the energy agenda for the period 2023-2050. I intend to come up with that this year. This means that we have given an important impetus to the turnaround in this cabinet period. We have started the irreversible process and completed it with broad social support until the year 2023. For the period from the year 2024 onwards, we have set out what the energy agenda must look like in order to achieve the ambition we share in the Chamber as part of the European and global ambitions that are justified in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u146	In doing so, the Minister immediately answers one of the questions that I had asked him, namely whether he is going to present a number of previews during this cabinet period. I am glad that this is the case. The minister said that the sequel starts from 2024. The energy agreement runs until 2023. Does the Minister exclude that we may be able to raise the pace again from 2020, if we can reach agreement with the partners on this, of course? We see that many ambitions run very steeply towards 2020 and that after that, for example, the growth rate of renewable energy decreases. We just need an acceleration in order to be convenient by 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u147	I don't know if the problem is exactly in 2020. From 2023 we will make the cover to send on CO. That's absolutely necessary. We already have a very efficient economy in the Netherlands. If we are only going to steer CO on a European scale, the pace in the Netherlands can go a little bit. It is necessary to keep up the momentum in the Netherlands as well. I recognize the problem that Mrs Van Veldhoven has outlined. I take this into account in my reasoning and in my plans for the energy agenda. We also pay great attention to the cost of the change. A government can do a lot of good that enables business to do its thing right. It's a way to cut costs. We've seen that in the wind at sea. The ambition there was to gradually reduce costs by 40%: first 10%, then 20% and then 30%. At the end of the period, by 2020, we would be at 40% cost reduction. We have managed to organise it with wind at sea, so that we have already been at 40% reduction in costs in the first year. It is possible that this will continue throughout the period. The first of the five offshore wind farms has saved 2.7 billion compared to the original planning. We could repeat that four times, maybe even a little more. I don't know. When we wind at sea, we really come in the direction of a level playing field with fossil energy. It would be great if we could do that. We are also working to ensure that many jobs are created in this shift towards renewable energy. We must ensure that the Netherlands is at the forefront of innovation in terms of energy transition. Already 80% of the solar panels in the world contain Dutch technology. We are constantly working on making solar panels more efficient and inventing that technique. I have just said what we have achieved with regard to wind energy. We are also working on all kinds of water projects, using the movement in the water, the difference between salt and fresh water and the heat of the water. Furthermore, we are working to ensure that by 2020 some 1,000 monofertilisers will be present among dairy farmers in total. They can also contribute. So we're doing innovation investments across the board and we're triggering them. The government has made 180 million available in various schemes, funded in various ways, to get innovation off the ground. This means that there can also be business activities from the Netherlands, not only for the transition in the Netherlands, but also for the transition in Europe and perhaps elsewhere in the world. With the trade union movement, among other things, we agreed that we would have 90,000 full-time jobs by 2020. We are on track to achieve this, as the calculations of the Planning Bureau for the Environment and the ECN (Energy Research Centre Netherlands) have shown. Then I come to the CO reduction in 2020. The CO reduction has been decided by the judge. That's what Urgenda asked for. This statement means that by 2020 we should emit 25% less than in 1990. I've never made any calculations about that myself. I've never put any pressure on one mathematician in any way, but I let them do their own work. They have come to me and they estimate that, on the basis of the policies deployed and based on the calculations they have made, the CO reduction in 2020 will be between 20% and 26%. They say that an average of 23% can be assumed. If we implement all the measures in the energy agreement, which I want to implement, the result is an additional 2%. My expectation at the moment is that it is possible to achieve 25% CO reduction by 2020. I believe that all the objectives we have set in the energy agreement are within reach. So does the SER's Boring Commission. The parties in the energy agreement, who have analysed this together with me, think so too. It is therefore really my task to ensure that everything that needs to be done is done, that alternatives are put in place if there are setbacks, and that efforts are made to achieve the five targets, including 14% by 2020. Mrs Van Tongeren asked me about the ROAD project. She pronounced it "RO-AD." I also think she said it well, because it is an abbreviation of Dutch words. Everyone says ROAD, however, so let me do the same. This project is a demonstration project for the reception of CO. If you look at the reception of COin this project, it is obvious to say that it costs a lot of money and to ask whether it is right to do so. But here's what we need to realize. We want to move towards a low-carbon and preferably carbon-neutral society by 2050. However, there will always be some production of CO2. We may then be able to re-use this CO2 in the industry or use it in the greenhouses. But at the moment everyone is convinced that part of that CO2 will have to be stored. However, there are no large-scale projects where experience is gained and where it is considered whether it can be done in practice and how best to do it. The Dutch Government considers it very important that we gain this experience. The European Commission agrees. That is why we are now setting up ROAD. This involves the companies whose CO2 is being taken, the owners of coal power plants, the European Commission and the Dutch government. We are supported by Norway and Germany. This is how we try to set up such a large-scale demonstration project. So this is not just about the three million tonnes that we are going to store in that one gas field in two years' time. No, it's about everything you have to do in advance. How are you supposed to organize all this? How are you supposed to do all that technically? How are you going to do that for two years? How can we learn from this and what follow-up can we give? If that one field is full, then another field can be used. CO can therefore be stored in it. So this is really a demonstration project, in which the period before and the period afterwards is part of the return of the project. There is no point in just looking at what it costs per tonne of CO for those two years. You really need to see this as an investment that will enable us to contribute in the future to the necessary storage of CO that remains in our economy. The results are very much shared by us with the other European countries and with other countries in the world. We don't keep this knowledge to ourselves at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u148	The Minister gives a comprehensive answer to a short question. The content of what he says is, of course, completely correct. I asked: how much does it cost in this project per tonne of avoided CO emissions? The reason for my question was the calculation of Secretary of State Wiebes for cars. He had calculated what it would cost for cars to avoid CO emissions per tonne. Only on that basis did the government's policy change. In the Car Letter, the tax on cars has changed enormously. At that time, I made exactly the same plea as the Minister is making. I said at the time: you can't look at it for one or two years, because you're in the middle of a big change because of climate change. That also has consequences for transport. The reasoning which the Minister is now putting forward seems logical to me, but it should be applied to the taxation of cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u149	Let me now speak with Mrs Van Tongeren in particular on this subject. It asks a specific question, namely: how much does it cost? I answer: it costs €160 per tonne. That's a lot of money. So I don't think you should just look at it that way. This is not about the three million tonnes of stored CO, but it is about getting something off the ground that can be used in the future in the Netherlands, in Europe and in the world if we want no more CO in the air. As far as cars are concerned, I am not the one who has to answer the questions in the first place. In general terms, I would like to say that it is my belief that this change will be made to electric cars. All cars are electric; I have no doubt about that. I also think that trucks are becoming electric, as are all buses and tractors. In this context, even the ships are being looked at. In the case of aircraft, we will eventually have to work with some sort of biofuel. In addition, certain industrial processes still release CO, even in the future. That's why we need additional CCS systems. In the case of cars, I think we can achieve the results by tightening European standards. That's what they do in America, California. We have already put such pressure on these standards that all car manufacturers are engaged in real electric models with an increasing range. Meanwhile, besides the Tesla's there are already electric cars with a range of 500 kilometers. They've been announced for next year. In this way, through the European standards for what we need to achieve with electric transport and with CO2 reduction, we can make a good contribution to the ROAD project and CCS storage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u150	Thank you for the direct answer. In the Autobrief it was an argument to make the largest, heaviest and most polluting cars cheaper and to make the cars that previously had a tax advantage more expensive, cars that were smaller and more economical. I'm very sorry about that. I agree with the Minister that we absolutely cannot make steel and cement without CO production. So we're gonna have to do something with that. In one case, the argument is that it costs too much per tonne, "so we turn it back" and in the other case it is rightly noted: this is a development that is going on, so it costs some money. The Minister will understand that I or my colleague, Mr Wiebes, will be talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u151	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u152	It is very good for Mr Wiebes if he is beaten with my input; that seems fine to me. For electric cars you do not currently pay a special consumption tax. You don't pay car tax and the add-on is only 4%. So these cars are still very well advanced. I think we are already doing a lot in addition to the standards I was talking about. Mr Smaling spoke about the future design of the SDE+. He and Mrs Van Tongeren wondered if it was not good to take a shot away more often here and there. The question was also whether it would not be contrary to the design of the SDE+ to set bulkheads by treating certain techniques separately. I think both spokesmen have approached that well. The essential difference between the SDE scheme and the SDE+ scheme is that the SDE+ scheme is competitive as much as possible between all technologies and techniques and that the cheapest is used. In some cases it is necessary to work with a shielded part, because we want a particular technique of which we have great expectations to develop further in the market, although that technique is not yet cheap enough. We did that by wind at sea. That was very successful. The result is what I just described. Everyone also sees what has been achieved. So it was wise to make that exception. I have also made an exception for the monofertilisation because FrieslandCampina, the great customer of all dairy farmers in the Netherlands, wants to take responsibility for this and organise it for the farmers, so that agricultural companies can also produce renewable energy. The ambition is to have 1,000 monofertilisers by 2020. To get that started, I've worked with a shot. But they're exceptions. The technique of SDE+ means that you do not do this and I only do it exceptionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u153	The way in which the Minister argues this is interesting. I find that I'm losing my voice, and that's not a good sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u154	You're all touched.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u155	Yeah, it's about something! The Minister began his explanation by saying that we sometimes do it when a technique is becoming profitable. At Wind aan Zee we saw that. The Minister doesn't say that about monofertilisers. He says, "FrieslandCampina wants it." Experts point out that this fermentation is not profitable and will not become profitable. Now there's another argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u156	I would like to say the same thing, also with regard to monofertilisation. We think that if this technique is applied on a large scale and a large company that has a lot of experience around the world to successfully implement this type of large processes, supports it and wants to take care of the farmers and also to use its own technical expertise for this purpose, which will result in the suppliers of the systems being able to quickly reduce costs, especially given the size of 1,000 digesters by 2020. By helping to get this going and by joining the Friesland Campina initiative, I think we can achieve a reduction in costs, which will ultimately be done at a much lower cost than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u157	Mrs. Ouwehand, if her voice still allows it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u158	If my vote still permits, I would object to experts agreeing so far that profitability will not come within reach, while the Minister above all says that FrieslandCampina wants it, takes responsibility and wants to relieve farmers. FrieslandCampina just wants to sell a lot of milk. This is one of the parts of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u159	I'm glad FrieslandCampina wants to sell a lot of milk. I am also pleased that we have such a leading agricultural sector in the Netherlands, in the dairy and meat sectors, as well as in all kinds of varieties of plants that are made to money throughout the world. I think it's good that we do. I believe that we should make the most of the know-how of these large companies, including in solving the persistent problem of manure, to which this can contribute in a sense. I've said the necessary things about wind on land. This time the spokesmen did not address the issue of coal power stations and most of them, but they did so on many previous occasions. We will be discussing this this year in connection with the judgment of the judge on Urgenda, the 25% ambition for 2020 as regards CO emission reduction and the scenarios for coal plants. On these occasions, I will go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u160	There are still questions for you. I saw Mrs Van Veldhoven first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u161	I think you have overlooked Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u162	That's almost impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u163	I thought, "That can't be true." The Minister said there was no request for biomass reform at all. Usually the minister does a little general first and then joins the spokesmen. I asked him about the subsidy for biomass aid. The agreement was that we would only do so if there was agreement on the sustainability criteria. We do not want to add biomass to problems and climate change elsewhere in the world. Now that agreement on biomass criteria is almost there, but not quite yet. I have therefore asked the Minister to suspend the grant until we have a real agreement. Otherwise, we have no certainty that the biomass co-fired in the coal plants is truly sustainable. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u164	We agreed in the Energy Agreement that biomass would be used up to 25 petajoules per year. At the same time, we have agreed that we will establish the most stringent sustainability criteria for this. They are the most stringent and ambitious criteria in the world. The Netherlands is a bit of a guide country, we think. The criteria have been developed together with NGOs and energy companies. We've put them in the SDE+ scheme. Energy companies are only eligible for subsidies if they meet the criteria. On the basis of the criteria, the SDE+ was opened in 2015 and this year. Payment of the subsidy can only be made if the biomass meets the criteria laid down. I think we've got this in order. Mrs Van Veldhoven says that it is almost agreed. It is very nice to agree on the last few details. In any case, the SDE+ sets out the most ambitious criteria in the world. They must be respected to the letter and the spirit. This is a condition for paying out subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u165	The minister says letter and spirit. I'm very happy about that. I have an example of living in spirit. It's about something very simple, it's about sawdust. Everyone's thinking: sawdust, what are you talking about? However, a tree is as ground as sawdust as that means that you do not have to meet the rest of the sustainability criteria, because sawdust is not included. I share with the Minister that the sustainability criteria are the most ambitious in the world and that we should be proud to establish them with each other. But let there not be a loophole by saying at that point that we do not have an agreement on that. Can I interpret the Minister's statement in such a way that there must be agreement on everything, otherwise the current construction will not allow us to pay out the subsidy? That's different from the fact that the grant couldn't have been awarded, but then we can't pay her out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u166	Everything has to be agreed. We made an agreement with each other. At that time, it was an agreement of all parties. Later, Mrs Van Veldhoven found something about biomass and someone else found something about that 9 petajoule extra energy savings for the energy-intensive industry. There have been many comments, but I am sticking to what we have stated in the energy agreement. I do the same for the sustainability criteria. I just want to do the right thing. I don't want to turn myself in to one party or another. I just want to do justice to those statements. I am convinced that, in the short term, it will make an important contribution to renewable energy, but like Mrs Van Veldhoven, I think that in the longer term we will eventually make a different and better use of that biomass through cascading technology. Now we're gonna get that biomass stream going. We ensure that it meets the world's sharpest sustainability criteria. In this way, we will achieve our sustainability objectives in the short term in line with the European direction. The current that we have set in motion then gives the opportunity to do other things with it for the slightly longer term. That's all very real. In my own hometown Hengelo there is a company that makes fuel out of this kind of mass. That fuel will be taken to Borculo, where I lived for 27 years. There is a very large factory of FrieslandCampina and it runs all over it. So that whole cascade system is also very real. I would like us to bring that sustainable biomass to the Netherlands and to compensate CO emissions as far as transport is concerned with a CCS project, as I have just described with regard to ROAD. I would then like us to make the most of the possibilities of cascading in the future and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u167	It is a good time to congratulate the Minister on the energy agreement and the way in which he drew it. I do not think that any minister responsible for energy comes close to that achievement. But then, of course, there will be one right away. This includes the financial side of the SDE+. We go to €300 per year on the energy bill for a household and €1,000 for a bakery. These are going to be significant amounts of money. At the same time, we are discussing whether some of the techniques chosen are so sustainable. It is then about the biomass supplement and also about the manure fermentation. The recycling of sewage treatment waste is sustainable, but manure fermentation is still based on having a surplus and the desire to get rid of it. Durable is not having a manure surplus. And then there is of course wind on land, where in Drenthe you are still damaging a large scientific project by wanting to continue the installation of 45 of those large mills there. If the Minister takes all this into account, you've set up something beautiful, but you're also looking at those two things in the future, how would he deal with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u168	The €300 per household mentioned by Mr Smaling is about the longer term and is a rounding off of the amount of €280 that you can actually find in the documents. It took into account, among other things, that we would spend a huge amount of wind at sea for a period of 15 years. However, in the first of the five projects we are going to implement there, we have now achieved a saving of 2.7 billion. This is also due to the €280 that was involved. That amount will therefore be lower. Mr Smaling can also see that, partly as a result of the transition we are making to renewable energy and the creation of a new renewable energy infrastructure, there will be a price loss in fossil energy, I believe. Households, on the one hand, have to pay more for renewable energy, especially in the slightly longer term, but, on the other hand, there will be considerable windfalls in fossil energy in the short term. Both are to be reckoned with. I understand that Mr Smaling is questioning biomass. There are also many things to question. If an energy agreement is reached between 47 parties and if agreements are made between all those who have anything to do with energy, then there are really all kinds of things that you can question from a certain conviction. I understand that you can question biomass; as well as I understand that Mrs Mulder says: we also do not want to exclude nuclear energy, because if you want to go to a low carbon society, you could also contribute to this with nuclear energy. That way, you can approach it. Discussion points are always there, but I have to assume certainties. A certainty is the European directive which means that nuclear energy does not count for renewable energy and biomass does. Then that's what I'm gonna do. Then I make agreements in the energy agreement on biomass, and I implement them. It does not help me to question this every time, I have to ensure that we have implemented what we have difficult to agree with each other and which is of great social significance. Finally, wind on land. Mr Smaling is very keen on land wind in Drenthe, and he has chosen the strongest possible wording. I understand that very well. You put large-scale windmills there in a small area and you can be very critical of that, like Mr Smaling. In order to achieve the ambitions in the area of renewable energy, we must make the most of all the possibilities that exist. This also includes wind on land and you do so in those places where the provinces think it is best to do so. We also did this in Drenthe and then we were confronted with a problem with ASTRON and the LOFAR project. We have brought this to a solution, because there is agreement between ASTRON and the initiators on how this can go hand in hand in a responsible way. I'm glad you did. It seems to me that we can also achieve that part of the agreement on energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u169	Thank you for this clear statement. The point is with all these techniques: the last piece is the hardest. Of the 6,000 megawatts you want to get rid of in the country, you'll find the first 1,000; that's not so hard. The farmers in eastern Flevoland often already have planting around their farm, so there's a lot to say. Finding the last 1,000 is the hardest thing, and we're running into it now. The Minister says that it is dealt with with by ASTRON, but I think you are doing a lot of damage to a very important scientific project. The NWO setting is not the first. I would like to ask the Minister: put a little less heels in the sand at the last piece originally planned and move to wind at sea, which can be awarded cheaper than we thought. If you roll that further down where your TenneT cables are, you'll only have economies of scale. I understand that you cannot change technology and vision every moment, but here I really blame the Minister for being stubborn. I would prefer you to incorporate the moving insight into the SDE+ scheme in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u170	I have to meet this target for renewable energy of 14% by 2020 and 16% by 2023, because those are the European rules. They are political agreements in the coalition agreement and more importantly, it is an agreement we have made with civil society organisations and it is necessary for the climate in the world. I have to get those percentages. That means I can get the net if I get the maximum on all parts, so the maximum with wind on land, with solar panels, with wind at sea and with tidal energy in all variants. By 2023, the conclusion is that I'm gonna make it. I won't make it before 2020, that's in that last piece. I'm having a lot of trouble getting it done, and I know I'm at risk with that last 1,000 megawatts, the wind on land. I will do my utmost to achieve the agreements I have made with the provinces in a responsible way. It is also justified with regard to ASTRON. I had a conversation with NWO, with the management of ASTRON and with the supervisory board of ASTRON. Together with the initiators, the case has been examined in detail under the direction of an independent external. It looked at exactly what the problems of ASTRON were and how they could be met. The outcome was such that both parties signed up. So I can move on, and I'd like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u171	Continue with the "energy" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u172	Still with energy, but I'm getting along. I have already said something about 100 petajoule energy savings. The ambition is that we will achieve 1.5% more energy savings every year. For the Netherlands, Europe has linked it to how much we need to achieve. We had to save 480 petajoules of energy, which is an enormous amount between 2014 and 2020. I can tell the chamber we're going to get 540 petajoules. 480 had to be done, but we're getting 540. What I am mainly working on at the moment is the 100 petajoule extra we have laid down in the energy agreement. That's very difficult. Additional measures must be taken to this end. I am in the process of taking these additional measures. I hesitate to go over them all now. We have agreed to this with the parties to the energy agreement. We are still in consultation with various parties about the form in which we are casting it and when we are going to introduce it. After I have completed that consultation, I will come to the Chamber at a good time to discuss it further. What certainly helps to achieve this energy saving is the support and consideration of the Chamber. Mrs Van Veldhoven has submitted an own-initiative paper proposing that energy-intensive companies should already be obliged to reduce their energy consumption. It could be. There is also the obligation I am working on because I want them to realize that 9 petajoule. They have not yet submitted sufficient plans. If they don't come, I have to work with an obligation, but I want to make a somewhat broader commitment that looks at the whole energy consumption of companies, regardless of where exactly CO emissions take place. That's what I'm working on right now. I am also looking more broadly than just at an obligation with a five-year payback period for investment. There are also other possibilities. I think it would be a good idea to develop it further and to discuss it with the companies, as well as with the parties to the energy agreement. In my further work, I would like to make use of the arguments and proposals put forward by Mrs Van Veldhoven in her memo. Then I come to the built environment and the phasing out of natural gas. Mrs Van Tongeren, Mr Bruins and Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about this. The phasing out of natural gas in the built-up environment is no longer a question for me, because we will have to move towards an energy-neutral environment by 2050. We are already working to ensure that all new homes and office buildings meet the requirements for near-energy-neutral buildings (BENG). Those are strict demands, so that a big step is taken. The future will be that you have a combination of sustainable electricity and sustainable heat in the buildings. That has to be filled in with customization, because one time you can use one and the other time. Eventually, this customization means that we go off from gas as heating for space and for cooking, unless it is biogas, so that it becomes a combination of renewable energy carriers instead of fossil. Mr Bruins asked me if I would also be willing to make a effort to speed up the roll-out of zero-on-the-meter houses. I have just indicated that, from 2020 onwards, we are going to set these stringent requirements for nearly zero-energy buildings for both office buildings and housing. I'm also trying to give an industrial boost to those zero-on-the-meter houses. We have done this mainly by exploiting the possibilities in Groningen. In Groningen many houses need to be strengthened. If you combine that with zero-on-the-meter houses, you can get a lot further with that. We have made agreements on this with the housing corporations. We have achieved the first 175. Several companies have been working on this. They have developed industrial processes and gained experience with them. In the year 2017, 375 more will follow. Then we will have really started that process. I believe that this will be followed very closely in future for the new homes in the country. I have already said something about energy and innovation, in particular by mentioning the amounts involved. Mr Bruins asked me whether I would like to make the Energy Innovation Demonstration Scheme (DEI) of the shipbuilding industry a separate sector. I have indicated that it is very important that we put sufficient resources into energy innovation. At present, 180 million per year is available for this purpose. Behind that is a whole organization, with a separate top sector and a separate TKI, which deals with this. This is therefore under considerable pressure and a great deal is being done at the moment. If you apply such a scheme, you give state aid. That's what it's all about every time. You have to meet the state aid criteria. The aspects of State aid in the Energy Innovation Demonstration Scheme have been approved as the scheme aims to have a direct link with achieving a higher level of environmental protection. That is what you are achieving, and that is also the purpose of this regulation. You do this in the most efficient way and then it is acceptable in the light of the state aid rules. I think it is necessary that we make the best possible use of the money available within the DEI and that we do not get one category out of it. We are talking about shipbuilding now, but I can think of six other sectors where we can keep a story and which we could also give extra attention to. If we do so, we will limit the possibilities of making the most of the DEI scheme. The shipbuilding industry can participate in this, as can others. They can all make project proposals, and those who best meet the criteria will also be given the means to do so. The shipbuilding industry can participate in the DEI scheme, but can also participate and participate in the schemes under the Wbso scheme. They also receive innovation credit and have their own TKI in the top water sector. I think that this sector of importance to the Netherlands will also receive specific attention in the MIT. I do not think it would be wise at all to take a shot at the DEI regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u173	Is the "energy" block finished with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u174	Almost, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u175	Mr Bruins has been at the microphone for a long time. I'll give him the floor. He hasn't made any interruptions this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u176	Thank you, Mr President, for seeing, noticing and appreciating this. I would like to address two issues immediately, because Groningen and the construction were just passing by, and I suspect that the Minister will not come back to that again. Let me start with the shipbuilding; then I'll go into Groningen. There are sectors that cannot use the DEI scheme because it is an experimental development, as it is called, and a prototype is therefore immediately a first product. Special exceptions are possible under the EU Framework Directive for Research, Development and Innovation. The neighbour Germany, competing with us, is making use of the possibility to split up a piece of a DEI-like scheme and to use it specifically for experimental development. At the moment, the shipyards in the Netherlands miss orders. Perhaps they should even fire people because they are doing what the minister does not want to do now, just across the border, in Germany. Surely it would be a small effort to identify and separate a piece of that regulation and to include it in the framework directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u177	It is not the case that we have to follow everything that happens in Germany immediately. For the time being, not Germany, but the Netherlands has the most competitive economy in Europe. We have all kinds of arrangements and the Germans have all kinds of arrangements. The arrangements we have are, I think, optimal, even when it comes to stimulating innovation. Even if prototypes or one product are made, this scheme can be applied, but it must remain within the criteria of the scheme. This is important, because these criteria are designed in such a way that they remain within the European state aid rules, which are, on the contrary, of great importance to us in order to prevent unfair competition. For this scheme, each sector must therefore meet the criteria. The best projects are being supported. I understand that Mr Bruins is convinced of the importance of one sector, but for other sectors he could do so with the same conviction. This scheme gives all these sectors a fair chance. I will say something about Groningen myself later, so that Mr Bruins can respond if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u178	I understand from this that Groningen and the construction will come back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u179	Yes, especially for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u180	But very briefly, that's how the Minister promised me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u181	What the Minister says, namely that I am in favour of one sector, is wrong. My plea is about the circumstances in which some sectors are involved. Indeed, I come to the shipbuilding sector, which has specific characteristics that are more difficult to fit into that DEI, and which is specifically related to an uneven playing field in a competitive neighbour. I cannot just mention five or six sectors which are affected by this. It seems to me that it is precisely the Ministry of Economic Affairs that would like to avoid such an uneven playing field and that it would like to establish its rules flexibly. I wonder how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u182	The Germans are subject to the same state aid rules as the Dutch. As I said, we have an interest in European state aid rules, otherwise the practice would be that we would be unfairly competing from Spain and Italy. So we must stick to that, as must the Germans. With the DEI we have sailed sharply to the wind. Those criteria are established and acceptable. All sectors are eligible, including shipping. However, I do not think it is wise to separate part of a scheme, which is part of a total of 180 million, which we really need in order to achieve an optimal energy innovation, because we want to meet a particular sector in particular. I believe that all sectors should meet the criteria and that we should get the maximum return from the 180 million we have available for energy innovation. Just a word about Groningen and the construction. I was going to treat them separately. Mr Bruins and, in my view, Mr Monasch stressed the importance of the activities in the context of the earthquake in Groningen for the entrepreneurs and workers in the construction sector in that area. I would point out that the possibilities for this are not being fully exploited at the moment. In Groningen, the value increase scheme applies. Tens of thousands have used it. This scheme is totally focused on spending. We are getting that money for spending on solar panels in particular. Entrepreneurs could therefore benefit from all these activities. However, the practice of repairing the damage is that 70% of the Groningers do not choose to have the damage repaired and to send the bill to Centrum Secure Living. They also do not choose to order Centrum Safe Living to have that damage repaired. One chooses to get the money transferred. As a result, a great deal of economic activity, which would be possible in this area, is not possible, because that money is not used for it or directly. I am still not sure how we can deal with this, also because there are legal constraints on our policy options. Some spokesmen have said that it would be good not only to look at what construction contractors can do, but also at activities of dusters and other companies there. I will certainly take this as a point of attention in the further implementation of my policy. So much for Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u183	My point in my initial contribution was that the Groningers should be free to choose the contractor who will restore their home. The Minister wrote very clearly in his letter that residents have free choice in the event of damage recovery, but there are more categories. You've got damage recovery and you've got preemptive reinforcements. Damage recovery is indeed free to choose, except for risky elements such as chimneys and balconies. In order to restore these risky elements, people can only choose from a limited number of contractors. Moreover, in the past, such damage was repaired very quickly because it was risky, but because contracts have now been concluded with a limited number of contractors, the recovery is slower, despite the fact that it is risky elements. Then you don't have much left in damage recovery. Another important category is preventive reinforcement. There is no free choice at all. I would like the Minister to arrange for the Groningen people to be given the free choice for that category as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u184	We have set up the National Coordinator Groningen to make good working arrangements in the area. There's always different sides to a case. If money is spent on repairing damage, we would like it to be done by solid contractors with qualified personnel. For this reason, people and companies have been able to sign up for these activities and have been selected to be able to carry out those activities. I think this is wise. All this happened in consultation with Groningen. Preventive reinforcement is also linked to many aspects. Often these projects are more large-scale, mainly involving corporations. With individual homes, it is important that you can address as many things as possible in an industrialised way, reducing costs. These are all matters that need to be further worked out by the National Coordinator Groningen. In consultation with him, I will take up the point made by Mr Bruins that a house owner can decide for himself about the contractor who will carry out the preventive reinforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u185	I would like to draw your attention to the approximately 4,000 contractors who have now entered the register. I hope that we can extend it as widely as possible to those other categories, so that there really is a free choice. If the choice is not limited to the 22 larger companies that are attracted to the risky building elements, but can be chosen from that broad list of contractors, then I think that the Minister and I can go a long way together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u186	These are Mr Bruins' concerns. The task of the National Coordinator is to ensure that proper arrangements are put in place. If certain choices are made there, they must also be able to be defended. I will pass on Mr Bruins' concerns to the National Coordinator and discuss them with him where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u187	I see Mrs. Van Tongeren at the interrupting microphone. I give her the floor and then I give the floor to the Minister to finish his speech and also to explain the amendments. We cannot wait too long for dinner, because then there will be no food, but I think it would be useful for the Chamber to know what the Minister thinks about the amendments before dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u188	Okay, but you're sure there's something to eat after that for the hungry MPs and the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u189	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u190	I'm hungry! We all agree that the gas field in Groningen responds to the withdrawal of volume and that this is the result of the earthquakes. For the past three years I have been trying to get an overview of what net clean gas is offered in ready-to-use clean gas for sale and what volume of sand, sand, sludge, water, condensate and gas is coming out of the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u191	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u192	Mr Schotman of the NAM said at the last hearing that he would give that overview, but I still haven't got it. My question is whether the Minister would like to make that clear to the Chamber. There's a difference between what you pull out of garbage and usable gas, and what you can offer clean gas to GTS (Gasunie Transport Services).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u193	I don't know what comes out of water, dirt and dust. I do not have that information and I do not know whether it is important to have it. I'll think about whether that's important in some way and if so, if I can get that data. In that case, I'll share them with the Chamber. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke of net and gross gas extraction. The difference between the two is half a billion m. That half billion m is used by the NAM for its own business operations. The data I share with the Chamber, on the basis of which we talk, for example, of the volume of gas extraction in Groningen, are the gross data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u194	We call different things "gross." What I call gross is what's in volume, stuff, coming out of the field. The field reacts to condensate, sand or sludge no different than to gas, which we believe is useful. That is why this is important. Mr. Schotman said it could be done. I've spoken to Shell staff who also say it's possible. However, it can be a shocking list, because as the field becomes army, more other stuff comes up with it. This has a direct impact on the maxima of extraction mentioned by the Minister. The figures do exist, however, I have received them before, but only in different order sizes. I can't calculate that, because gas has a different volume at different temperatures and pressures. I can't count that on the Zakjapanner. So it would be very nice to get an insight into the total volume that is extracted from the field and the amount of clean gas that goes to GTS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u195	The point made by Mrs Van Tongeren is clear to me. I'll see if that information makes any sense and if so, if I can get it. If I can get that information, I'll share it with the Chamber. I shall therefore look into this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u196	I also have a point about Groningen gas, specifically about the gas building. The Minister has already written about this in his written reply. I was just checking it out for myself. Research was carried out in 2013. The report of the Research Council was published in 2014. In replying to the questions, I read that the Minister started the talks. So there's just a couple of years in between. For what reason haven't talks been made about the gas building before? There may also be a solution for a different distribution of resources for Groningen and the mining companies. How are we doing with these conversations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u197	The gas building is a construction that was built in the 1960s. That construction is therefore legally completely covered and has been applied for decades. This cabinet period we have reduced gas extraction to a level that is 50% lower. If you compare my last year as Minister of Economic Affairs with the current period, you can see that we are now at half the amount that was won in the year before I took office. So there are all kinds of new developments that make it necessary to talk about the original construction that we have set up and the current situation and the way in which it is viewed from both angles and by different parties. That exploratory consultation is now under way. That is not a consultation that can be held for a short time. So I cannot tell Mrs Mulder that she will get the results at the end of the first quarter of next year. That all depends. It is a complex legal consultation on the basis of a situation that has been crystallised over decades. The new situation is now being stopped, looking at it from different interests. I cannot go beyond saying that there are exploratory talks going on and that I do not yet have any new information to report to the Chamber. To Mrs Mulder's standard question when I do have more information, I have to say that I really do not know when that will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u198	I expected the Minister, after the 2013 investigation, to have had discussions about the gas building before. Now, however, I read that the Minister has just begun to do so. I'm just wondering what the considerations were not to start earlier. Or did the Minister start this earlier, but perhaps it did not end up in the letter? I think that for the solution, for the distribution of funds and the desires and the burdens, what is happening here in the gas building, is very important, also towards the Groningers. You could of course think of an additional charge per cube of gas, but you can also find a solution in the gas building. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u199	I have raised this issue myself. On my initiative, ABDTOPConsult did an analysis. On this basis, we have prepared our position further. This had to be done in a situation where all kinds of changes were also taking place. There was constant pressure from the cabinet, the Chamber and the people in Groningen to reduce that gas extraction. At some point, the situation was crystallized. We have now said for a period of five years that it is a certain level and that we will review annually whether there is any new information. However, you can say that it is now crystallized. This means that it is now possible to have these exploratory talks. They're going on, too. I still don't see when that leads to anything and where it leads. I've already informed the Chamber in writing about ECN. There has been an urgent situation there. I attach great importance to the continued use of energy knowledge at the ECN Foundation. This is knowledge about renewable energy and the energy transition. I saw a good opportunity, in the difficult situation that had arisen, to secure this through cooperation with TNO, combining the expertise of TNO and ECN and focusing in particular on what we are doing in the Netherlands: the transition to renewable energy. A newly recognizable research centre is now being set up for this purpose. I hope that will be able to start on 1 January 2018. Quartering, sounding board group; that's all set up to do it. I think I have seen an amendment somewhere saying that 5 million more should be available for it. I think that's very premature. I think it's very wise to go where something went financially wrong, then see how a good combination with something else can get you to something that delivers what you need. If that takes less money, that's good. If it takes more money, it needs to be discussed. But to make 5 million available for this in advance! I can announce in advance that I will not recommend that amendment. This is happening. What's also going on is that we've linked the calculators from ECN to the PBL. These are the people who draw up the National Energy Exploratory, who advise me on the basic amounts for the SDE+, who pass on the policy packages with new measures related to the energy agreement. I can link that expertise to the PBL. Then I can keep that, too. There has also been talk of historical waste and other nuclear activities. As far as the reactor is concerned, the Pallas route is under way. As far as historical waste is concerned, on the basis of all the information available today, I have looked at the amount needed for this. There was a shortage. That's the amount I've added. I have started an in-depth investigation to see if the way we deal with this historic waste is the best way to do it or perhaps organise it differently. That's all going on right now. I should like to respond to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u200	Very good. There's 11 of them in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u201	I have a few more questions that haven't been answered. I have asked the Minister what he thinks about giving more opportunities to municipalities to use the funds for private housing, so what he thinks about the possibility of making more meters through the municipalities. I asked why gas is still in the energy performance compensation. I also asked a question about the 1 billion from the budget reserve. I asked if that money would no longer be needed for the energy transition. Finally, I spoke about energy storage. That is a crucial point. An action plan has just been issued. I would appreciate it if the Minister could respond to that. It can also be given at another time, but it is nice if the Minister notes that it must be included in an upcoming letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u202	I do not know what more I can say about the amount of 1 billion than what I have already exchanged with the Chamber. We have already discussed it twice or three times. I wrote letters about it. I have said that we have a remnant and that every time a new cabinet sets things up again. Somehow things remain available for the purpose, or things are arranged in a different way. The money we have made available for renewable energy remains available for this purpose. I have no new information to report on this, compared to everything I have already exchanged with the Chamber. With regard to the issue of municipalities, Mrs Van Veldhoven needs to explain briefly what she wants to hear, because I have not quite understood that now. I do not have an answer to the question about gas in the energy performance compensation. I shall come back to that later, perhaps in the second term. Mrs Van Veldhoven said that the question on the last point could be answered on another occasion. I'll be happy to do that on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u203	I would also like to answer the other questions in the second period. That's what I'm saying for the sake of time. It's a lot of questions. Some of them have been discussed in the debate on responsibility. At least that applies to the point of the 1 billion. I would now like to turn to the amendments. Then the Chamber will know what the government's opinion is on the amendments. That's useful for the second term. Then we'll eat soon afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u204	I think that's excellent. I will then give the Minister a little more information on the question surrounding the municipalities between the first and second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u205	I appreciate that. I now come to the amendments. I have seen that a number of amendments have been added, which I have not seen before. So I need a few minutes to sort things out. Perhaps you could suspend the sitting for a few minutes, Mr President, to give me the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u206	We will then have to eat first and then deal with the amendments. We'll start with that after the suspension before dinner break. It is then up to you to deal with it in all ease.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u207	I'm reopening the meeting in the hope that the spokesmen will come in on their own. Mrs. Van Tongeren is already here. We are dealing with the Economics and Innovation section of the Economic Affairs budget. I give the floor to the Minister for his response to the amendments. Then we shall proceed quickly with the second term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u208	Mr. Chairman. I am going to deal with the amendments and I have a few more answers. I was able to update a few things during the break. This is a response to what Mrs Gesthuizen said and to what Mrs Van Veldhoven said. In her amendment to item No. 7 Ms Mulder wanted to increase MIT's budget, the scheme for SMEs involved in top sector policies, by 2.9 million. This is what she wants to do to bring the budget to the same level in 2017 as in 2016. I have indicated that it makes sense to do something at this point. I also indicated that this would be technically possible if I brought the rate of payment into line with the money that needs to be spent. Some of the money comes from the Province Fund and others come from the Empire. The payment rhythm of the Empire is in line with the expenditure incurred for the IT projects. That gives me room for the year 2017. I think this is better coverage than the coverage proposed by Mrs Mulder. It wants it to be at the expense of trade promotion. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. I would like to leave it to what I said in response to what Mr Ziengs and Mr Verhoeven in particular have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u209	As I indicated during the Prime Minister's first term, I agree with the coverage found by the Minister. It's the purpose that matters to me. I withdraw the amendment because the objective for 2017 has been achieved. The CDA is very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u210	The Agnes Mulder amendment (Doc. 7) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u211	I know that this technical solution meets not only the wishes of Mr Ziegs and Mr Verhoeven, but also those of Mrs Mulder, who has the same aim. In his amendment to item No. 9 Mr Bruins wants to undo a cut in the Van Swinden Laboratory (VSL) for 2017. We have put the national finances in order. Measures have been taken across the board; in the ministries and also in institutions that receive money from ministries. It is ill-advised to turn this back selectively. In this case, there is a cut that will result in the VSL getting three and a half tonnes less in 2017 than in 2016. This means that the laboratory gets 4.5% less subsidy. As Mr Bruins and I have already discussed, I think it is quite possible, together with the VSL, the business and scientific stakeholders, and EZ, to see what can be done so that this can be carried out. I think we can do this. VSL has time for that, too. It will take about eight months before we really have to take steps. They have to be put in place, but that can be done after consultation. I do not think it is necessary to achieve a 4.5% cut in the subsidy. That is why I do not recommend Mr Bruins' amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u212	I know the Minister is very serious about talking to the VSL. I will consider exactly what I am going to do with the amendment over the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u213	If Mr Bruins withdraws the amendment, it will not be at the expense of my commitment on this issue. I have said this on several occasions. The amendment in part No. 11 by Mrs Mulder, which has been replaced by Amendment No 11 by Amendment No 11 by Mrs Mulder, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and on behalf of the Group of Both amendments aim to reverse the increase in premiums from 3.6% to 4.65%, which companies pay when they receive a guarantee from the SMEB. I do not agree with those amendments. I really think we should increase the premium from 3.6% to 4.65%. Both in the year 2012, and in the year 2013, and in the year 2014, we have suffered a loss of about 100 million on the SMEB. There was about 25 million in income on the SMEB, but we spent 100 million because we had to guarantee loans that weren't paid. That means that we were called upon to do so. The bank, by the way, took half of it. On balance, three years in a row, we've lost 75 million a year. If you look at a longer period, from 2009 to 2015, we've reached a total of 555 million. In that period, 187 million in premium receipts were realised. I think it is very reasonable for this scheme, which still leads to the contribution of 8.5 million from the EZ budget, to be subsidised by the SME and continue to be subsidised by the EZ budget, to increase the premium from 3.6% to 4.65%. It is also very business to do, combined with support from the government. I reject both amendments. I come to the amendment to item No. 23. In it, the cover is indicated by Mrs Mulder. She proposes to take them out of the money that will become available for Dutch competitiveness abroad. Just say: the efforts to improve this competitiveness and to follow up the trade missions. I think it is very important to follow up on the trade missions. We are very committed to these trade missions. Much is achieved, but it must also be followed up in a good way. Mrs Ploumen and I, in consultation with the Minister for Finance, have set up a plan for this. For the time being, an amount of 10 million has been fixed, but this will be further completed. I would be very sorry if this were to be deleted. It is also an additional reason to discourage Mrs Mulder's amendment. Mrs Gesthuizen takes the cover out of the amount I promised to start-ups. I have changed that amount of 50 million not only with the Chamber a number of times, but also with the start-up world. I've also spent it abroad. It is very important for the start-ups. To get money out of there right now, I think it's very undesirable. Actually, I'll come back to my appointments. That is an additional reason for the amendment to item No. 12 from Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u214	Mrs Vos has a question, although she is not the first signatory of these amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u215	My question is indeed about the amendments. I am very sensitive to the Minister's arguments against cover, but is it also conceivable that, because the loss was caused by the crisis, he will postpone this interest rate increase for another year? Is it conceivable that he will seek that one-off amount in the legal non-compulsory part? After all, it has to do with the fact that things have been bad for a while. The Dutch companies have been doing very well for nine quarters now. I can imagine we're gonna walk back into that refund. Is that another option?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u216	We've got a lot of catching up to do. Because of the huge sums we have put in, the cabinet, because of the main line of the cabinet, has looked intensively at the various guarantees that are under way. We have agreed to continue with this guarantee. I'm also doing my best to make a lot of use of it. But anyone who makes use of that guarantee scheme will receive a guarantee from the government, often for a very large amount of money. It is certainly a relatively large amount of money. I therefore think it is only reasonable that, instead of 3.6%, premiums should now be paid at 4.65%, also given the fact that that government has already contributed hundreds and hundreds of millions to that scheme. In view of the very careful consideration that has taken place in the cabinet on this point, I would also like to insist on this. I therefore advise against both amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u217	I give the floor to Mrs Mulder, because I do not want to have a lot of questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u218	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but my question hasn't been answered. I just asked you to postpone it for another year and see how the refund is going. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u219	Yeah, but my answer is I don't want that. I disagree with the two amendments because there has been a very careful consideration in the cabinet on this point, reflecting both the general government policy of the Minister for Finance and of me and the great losses that have been suffered. In doing so, I have opted for the maintenance of this guarantee scheme. We have also chosen to leave an amount of 8.5 million to be charged to the EZ budget, again next year. But we have also decided to increase the premium from 3.6% to 4.65%. I think that's quite reasonable. I reject both amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u220	Mrs Mulder still has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u221	If my amendment were to be adopted, there would be some EUR 3 million left, even a little more, for the further development of these foreign trade trips, and to do the right thing for that. It says it's about stepping up. Concrete plans aren't there yet. Does the Minister not see an opportunity to consider, for example, whether this intensification could be done a little more in the form of a pilot? This may require a little less money than was originally desired. Then EUR 3 million for intensification is also a lot of money, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u222	We are very active in the field of trade missions. I've done a lot of them myself this year, and I'm leaving on Sunday. But many more trade missions have been carried out by my colleague Ploumen, who is the first to be responsible for this. The Prime Minister, the Minister of VWS and the Minister of I and M are also active in this area. We are on the assembly line and all over the world engaged in trade missions. This is also very important for the Dutch business community. Together with the Dutch business community, we have concluded that we can still make a profit in the follow-up to those trade missions. There is a great deal to be done for this, both in the business community and in the public sector. In consultation with industry, we have earmarked this amount for this purpose. In view of the great importance of these trade missions for business and especially for employment in the Netherlands, I should like to insist on this. The amount has yet to be completed, in consultation between Mr Ploumen and myself. I would like to hold on to that EUR 10 million, which I think is quite reasonable. That's also a reason I can't agree with that coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u223	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u224	Mr Graus spoke about cybercrime. I do not think there is much difference in substance. However, he is now tabling an amendment proposing to invest 10 million in a centre to be set up. I have already expressed my views on this in detail in my first term. This leads to the conclusion that I am in favour of this amendment tabled by Mr Graus, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u225	Will the MPs all pay close attention? I once told the Minister a few years ago that there were many municipalities where there were defaults. Then the Minister said: it is not. It turned out to be. A few months later, I told him franchisees were in trouble. Then the Minister said: it is not. It turned out to be. I now predict to everyone, the whole Chamber, that this will soon be necessary. I hope, therefore, that the Chamber will not judge this matter differently from the Minister. We need to reserve the $10 million to fight cybercrime right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u226	This was a plea made by Mr Graus to his colleagues. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u227	Mr President, I have never said that municipalities would not pay off. I said that it was important for me to find out and to publish the results, to ensure that municipal councils can act against them in municipalities that do not pay well. So what Mr Graus is saying here is completely untrue. I never told him there would be no problem with entrepreneurs in the border region. I'm more nuanced about that sort of thing. What I say is also in line with the facts. Both statements by Mr Graus are therefore false.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u228	Madam President, I spoke to the Minister in a committee room about default by municipalities. I know that an entrepreneur in Limburg has gone bankrupt by dispaying local authorities. The minister said, "I'll get this sorted out." He has done so, and at the place where he is now, he has shown that in more than I think 70% or 80% of the cases were properly paid. There was nothing wrong. That was literally said here. I don't think that's right. I'm kind of being put away as a liar. It was denied that there were many dispaying municipalities. The minister kept a magazine up in box K and said: look, in so many percent of the cases it goes correctly. That's literally said. I'm gonna call my staff to get all this out of the water. In the next debate, I will re-introduce this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u229	In my view, it is now time to put this behind us and move on with the amendments. That's what I recommend to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u230	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I'm not going to. Mr Graus raises a point that others have already raised and so have I. If 70% to 80% of the municipalities pay well, 20% or 30% may not pay well. I don't like that. I have therefore said: we are going to find out which municipalities they are and to what extent this is the case; then we are going to publish it and the municipal councils can do something about it. Therefore, I do not understand why Mr Graus feels the need to give the wrong picture here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u231	On 7 December there will be a general consultation Business and business finance. I would say continue the discussion there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u232	Now I must be able to respond to this. At first it was said... Maybe I played very hard at municipalities. The Minister may have tried to make that clear, but he said that it was really bad and that so much money was paid. I think he even mentioned 78%. In some municipalities, even in more than 96% of cases, payment would be made on time. Then I said: that means that tens of percent do not pay correctly. Those were my words. I think it's unbelievable. The minister has hundreds of officials, but I only have one and a half employees. So I can't reproduce these kinds of cases, but I'll come back to them, if necessary via Twitter or the newspaper. I'll come back to this, believe me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u233	I'd do it in a debate. That's a nice method here. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u234	Mr Graus can do what he wants, but perhaps he can ask himself whether it is true that he usually claims things that others are saying, then there is a serious discussion about it and he pretends to be the only one who has said something about it and is the only one who takes it seriously. That is absolutely the truth! If it is said that 70% to 80% of the municipalities pay well, I am not satisfied with that at all. I'm at the government, at the ministries, trying to get it over 95%. I said I'd figure it out and I'd publish the numbers. Mr Graus really gives the wrong picture of reality. I don't feel like letting this go on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u235	I would say that we are considering Mrs Van Tongeren's amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u236	You mean the amendment to item No. 14, which has been replaced by the amendment to item No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u237	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u238	Mrs Van Tongeren wants us to free up €200,000 to conduct trial trials against the NAM. I told you in the Chamber I don't want that. After talking about this in the cabinet, I explained again in a letter to the Chamber our position in this regard. I think we should avoid judicial proceedings. I will not repeat what has been done to ensure that people do not have to go to a judge. Before they think they have to go to court, they can go to an arbitrator first. It then comes with a binding ruling for the NAM. We have also arranged a reversal of the burden of proof. Then, as a state, to fund trials against a private company, I don't feel anything like that. The cabinet doesn't feel like it, so I advise against the amendment to item No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u239	Unfortunately, I expected this reaction, but we have stated in our Constitution that we would like citizens to have access to justice. I understand that the Minister does not want legal proceedings, but in court cases citizens are fairly often judged on one or more points. The minister is also in favour of maintaining the trias politician. A self-made version of the law alongside official law can offer relief, but citizens who want it, and there are several in Groningen, and who do not have the financial means to do so, with retroactive effect because legal aid insurances have excluded it, cannot go to court. I would expect the Minister to rise above that and say that he is right that the judge should rule in five or ten cases. It can't be about the money: €200,000. What's the big obstacle? Is it that the state might be tried by a judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u240	I am not concerned at all about denying citizens the right to go to court. I want to act in such a way that the citizens do not have to go to court. Well, I'm gonna say it anyway. A citizen who thinks he has suffered damage caused by the earthquakes in Groningen can have someone come in to record the damage at no cost. Then he'll be reimbursed. If he doesn't agree with the analysis, he can bring in another expert himself. He doesn't have to pay for it either. On that basis, a ruling can be made. If the citizen does not agree, an arbitrator may be appointed. That is a former judge who gives an opinion that is binding on the NAM. That's how the case is solved for the citizen. With that combined, plus the reversal of the burden of proof, we have organised the case in such a way that we take our own responsibility and prevent citizens from being chased at costs and brought to justice. If you've arranged it all that way, I think it's really weird that you're going to fund another ten trial trials against a private company. I really don't intend to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u241	A brief second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u242	It's not just the private company. For example, Boer Nijhoff has pulled a lot of things out of the closet to get his damages compensated. He went to court, and the judge did say that the way his case was handled was wrong. Both the State, via EBN, and the NAM are liable for the damage. According to the judge, the self-invented idea of a-, b- and c-damage is impossible. For case law alone, it is important to have a judge rule from time to time. The last ruling of the Supreme Court on this responsibility was in 1914. To get good case law, you don't come there with a self-invented arbitrator and a self-invented set of rules. We can do that in the context of mediation for most things...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u243	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u244	I'm trying to persuade the Minister to release two tons of money from a $256 billion rich budget for justice for the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u245	Justice by the Groningers is given by the expert analysis made as soon as there is a claim. If necessary, a second analysis will be made. After that, an arbitrator can also be brought in. Those arbitrators are former judges. On the initiative of the Chamber, we have decided to do so, also supported by GroenLinks. I believe that this way we will ensure that citizens are kept as low as possible on costs and have as little red tape as possible. They will be given justice as soon as possible. We have focused on this in accordance with our agreements with the Chamber. Once you've arranged all that, it's very strange to finance trial trials against the NAM. I'm not gonna do it. I strongly advise against this amendment. I come to Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, Amendment No 1, This is additional money that will be made available for the IPC scheme, which can be continued next year. An additional boost for the SBIR approach will also be possible. This has been linked to what Mr Verhoeven said about blockchain technology. It's covered. For the SBIR scheme, coverage has been found by reducing the accompanying ICT policy and administrative burden of EUR 7 million by EUR 1 million. Because the expenditure for the SBIR is in the same atmosphere, I think it is a responsible cover. I have looked critically at the coverage for the amount of EUR 3 million to continue the IPC scheme for a year, and this is technically correct. That is why I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u246	Judgment of the Court of Justice on Amendment No 18. That was originally no. 16. I would also ask the Minister to refer to the amendment on item No. 15 to respond. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Van Tongeren on stepping up the current public R&D budget for cleantech research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u247	I'm getting there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u248	Then let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u249	If that is not the case, I will come back to that later. I shall deal first with the amendment to item No. 19 by Mrs Mulder. That amendment provides for an additional 50 million for energy innovation and 10 million for the TNO-ECN combination. Let me start with that last one. I have already said that we are in the process of making ECN and TNO, two separate institutions in the field of energy advice, one centre. I think we should take it easy. We need to look at whether there might be less money needed for this so that we can save some money or maybe something else is going on. There are several aspects to this. I think we should look at that before we go there with money. For that reason, the 10 million, I am against the amendment. Then I come to the 50 million extra that the amendment makes available for the DEI scheme. We are increasing this scheme from 35 million to 45 million this year. These are cash payments which can only be made over a period of five years. That amount of 50 million is really not in proportion to what it is about. I do not think there are enough projects in the market to spend this money properly. I raised that amount from 35 million to 45 million on the basis of what I believe can be done in the market. The increase proposed in this amendment is really too high. Moreover, we already have the energy innovation scheme Renewable energy. In addition, the SDE+ scheme will make 50 million per year available for this purpose. A total of 180 million is available for energy innovation. That is the amount I believe I will need next year to do what is necessary at this point. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u250	To put it perfectly correctly, the total amount involved is EUR 50 million. It is proposed to make 10 million of these available in order to get ECN and TNO off to a good start. In the end, some 8 million had been cut off on ECN. I'm going to reverse that, and I'm going to add $2 million to make that joint start in a good way. In this way, this energy centre can really become the international centre of expertise that we would like to have in the Netherlands. The rest of the amount, the 40 million, could partly go to the DEI scheme. However, I am concerned about the total that we have available for energy innovation. We would like to see this relationship with the billions we are spending on windmills and other important issues different. I would just like to say that to correct the interpretation of my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u251	Thanks for the correction. As Mrs Mulder said, she knows that the best thing for herself is 50 million, 40 million plus 10 million. So that's where I have to correct myself. I'm against reversing discounts. I believe that we have put public finances in order and that we should not reverse this at the Van Swinden Laboratory or at ECN or anywhere else, if that is to be dealt with subsequently. You certainly shouldn't do that if you're going to bring two units together into one unit. You will then see what is needed and what is possible there, because you can also achieve efficiency gains. I really think it is a wrong signal to add 10 million in advance. I also think it is wrong to add another 40 million when I am convinced that next year, with 180 million for energy innovation, I will have the amount I need. It is all about tax money that has to be paid; it is about money from those who pay the electricity bills. I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 19, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u252	I'll make it really quick. We talked yesterday about a national climate agreement. We need to take major steps in the field of renewable energy. The CDA would like to do that. We see an opportunity here to invest in new technologies. We are therefore choosing this particular point so that ECN can actually take that step towards the future and we will have jobs in this country. We'll get that out of the backup there. There is EUR 400 million in it that is free to spend; there are no commitments to this at the moment. We would like to finance it from there. This has already been achieved by the inhabitants of the Netherlands. They also expect it to be spent on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u253	Mrs. Mulder's cover is inadequate. It takes it out of the non-legally mandatory part of the renewable energy budget reserve, but that money is in it under the Renewable Energy Storage Act. It literally states in the Storage of Renewable Energy Act that the money must be used to finance the promotion of renewable energy production. Here it is proposed to fund research with it, and that is contrary to that law. That's why the cover is impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u254	We shall continue with the amendment to item No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u255	I have already had that amendment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u256	Then it becomes that in part No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u257	The Van Tongeren amendment to item No. 21 calls for an additional 150 million for energy cooperatives. I agree with the importance of energy cooperatives for the support of renewable energy, but I do not think it is wise to create a separate operating subsidy for this. Energy cooperatives currently have two possibilities to do their job. They can do so either through the postcode rose scheme or through the SDE+ scheme. They are now actually using both schemes. I am constantly looking at how I can support these energy cooperatives by adapting arrangements, which will enable them to make greater use of them in the future. I would like to work for further professionalisation of the energy cooperatives and, together with them, explore the possibilities to further support them. In this way, they may be able to make even better use of the regular conditions of the SDE+ scheme. I would like to do all that, but I do not think it is right to make 150 million extra available for this. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u258	The amendment in part No. 21 is not recommended. You have a brief question on this, Mrs Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u259	The Offensive Local Energy has been puzzled very hard about how we can achieve the objectives of the Energy Agreement and bring about some change as early as 2017. It explains in seventeen pages that this is not possible with the current regime and not just with further professionalisation. That is why we came up with this amendment. This cover should be possible, right? Of course, 50 million is beautiful, but couldn't such an injection boost local energy? The pace of recent years is not the pace the Minister wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u260	With all due respect, I get that 50 million is quite fun, 150 million is totally great fun and 2 billion is even more fun, but that's not how we deal with taxpayers' money, is it? These cooperatives have two possibilities, and we are helping them. We have improved the postcode rose scheme on a number of points in order to make better use of it. They are already using the SDE+ scheme and we are going to help them make even more use of it. Of course they want 50 million more, but we really shouldn't. It is financed by the reduction of the SDE+, so less and less money is available for renewable energy and this must then be given to the cooperatives. We really shouldn't do that, so I would advise against Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u261	In my view, the Minister said that he would deal with the Spring Paper if the pace turned out to be insufficient. Did I misunderstand that? That is why we wanted to regulate it by amendment, because you can count the whole calendar year. The Minister acknowledges that it wasn't fast enough and that's why this club started working to speed it up. This will then be placed at Nijpels, but they will not only come with support and further professionalisation. It would be a shame to wait for the Spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u262	I think they'll get there, but it's not easy. The cooperatives want to commit thousands of people, to make a system of it and to do business with suppliers of techniques, and all this must be exploited. I think that is very ambitious and I very much appreciate the fact that the energy cooperatives are picking up on all this. They have two schemes that can be used for this purpose and both schemes actually help them. But I never intended to add any more money to that, and I have never raised any expectations for that, and I advise against this amendment. I shall now turn to the Van Tongeren/Grashoff amendment to item No. 22, where the weather is 150 million. That amendment proposes to reverse the opening up to monofertilisation, which I have done. I think it is very wise to make the 150 million available to make the best use of it, given the manure we have in the Netherlands, by capturing methane, using the heat again in the company and using the energy again and passing it on if possible. In this way, we contribute to the transition to renewable energy. It is also good for the sector that we are doing this. I believe that with this 150 million, we can make it possible for FrieslandCampina to have a thousand of these installations at work for dairy farmers by 2020, by achieving significant reductions in costs. That is why I do not recommend the amendment which makes a difference. The President mentioned an amendment to item No. 15, but I didn't. Maybe that can be handed to me for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u263	That is Mrs Van Tongeren's amendment on strengthening the current public R&D budget for clean tech research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u264	The Van Tongeren amendment to item No. 15 concerns again the combination of TNO and ECN. Mrs Mulder wanted to make 10 million available for this and Mrs Van Tongeren wanted to make 5 million available for it. With the same argument as I used to discourage Mrs Mulder's amendment, I would advise against the Van Tongeren amendment to item No. 15. I think it is really important that where two institutions work together, we look at how we can build on what we need for the future and how synergies can be maximised. I will look at what will come out and see how it will lead to decisions on funding. It is not a good signal to add money in advance, so I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 15. I have a few final points for which the President may wish to give me an opportunity. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked why gas plays a role in the energy performance compensation. My colleague from BZK is responsible for the energy performance compensation. I will express the concerns of Mrs Van Veldhoven to him. I have noticed that he has already replied to this question in reply to questions put by Mr Albert de Vries of the PvdA. The energy performance fee allows corporations to partially charge tenants for the costs of sustainable renovation. This provides an incentive to invest in energy-efficient buildings. Then it's about investments in isolation. Minister Blok proposes to make the energy performance compensation possible for homes that still have a gas connection. This means that he is now giving a strong boost to energy saving. In the long term, it is necessary to phase out the gas completely, as I have already said to Mrs Van Veldhoven. I intend to ensure that there is no gas left in the built environment, with optimum energy savings, and then to add renewable electricity and sustainable heat. That's how I'm working on it. This energy performance compensation scheme will be reviewed, starting in 2018. Mrs Gesthuizen could no longer be present, but she has presented me with something on which I should say a little more. That is the importance of nanotechnology. I have already said that I think it is important that we maintain our leading position in nanotechnology. In response to Mr Verhoeven, I said that this is one of the key technologies we need to solve societal issues. What's happening at Holst's nanotechnology is part of that. Ms Gesthuizen pointed to the evaluation of NanoNextNL. I'll offer that evaluation to the Chamber before Christmas. We want to strengthen this technology and have therefore given it a one-off FES impulse of 125 million between 2010 and 2016. Those who are working on it now have the opportunity to follow up on this via different routes: in the fields of materials, quantum technologies, the nanoevolution, the personalized medicine, the nanomaterials and nanoelectronics at Holst, the hDMT, the organs and chips, and the ARCNL on nanolithography. There are also a number of calls at NWO, for which the nanocommunity can successfully stand up for. Furthermore, through the Future Fund, we have invested a small 7 million in these facilities and there are other possibilities. I think that this provides a good basis for building on the one-off impetus we gave between 2010 and 2016. I share the great importance that Mrs Gesthuizen attaches to nanotechnology and to maintaining our position in this area. One final point. I have already said that I am glad that Mrs Ouwehand is back. The last time we deal with this budget together, I was glad to have two CDs. I've had one of those before. I'll turn them gray, I can assure her. I listened to these two very carefully on the same night that I got hers. One belongs to Monomyth. I pronounce it "monomy." Maybe she pronounces it "monomight," but I'm sure she knows it a lot better. It is a Dutch pop group that makes instrumental music. I've listened to it with great pleasure. I think it's great movie music. I also listened with great pleasure to the excellent drummer that is part of this band. Even more beautiful I liked the music of Death Alley. That music reminded me of Nirvana and the Foo Fighters. In the morning I always need a bit of aggressive music and it can deliver Death Alley. I also used it this morning to be well prepared for this debate with the Chamber. I am grateful to Mrs Ouwehand for helping me with that. I think the best possible ambassador for Dutch pop music is in front of me right now. I hope that she will continue to do so for years to come and thus remain young for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u265	Mrs. Ouwehand, what a compliment. It makes the Minister lenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u266	Yeah, it's great. I can tell the Minister that a lot of people were very curious about the reviews. So thank you for that. My voice leaves me, and then I think of the Dutch band Whisperaars. Thank you for that, although I am beginning to doubt the wisdom of handing over Death Alley's cd, because perhaps the aggressive music has prompted the minister to refer all the good proposals from the Chamber directly to the trash. Still, I'm glad you like the music.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u267	And that brings us to the end of the first term. Excuse me, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u268	Sorry, Madam President, but I have a point of order. I've just been made a bit of a fool of here. Plenty of people respond. I hear members shouting, but it's none of their business. It concerns me as a member of the States General and I am not lying. I've had this sorted out by the CIP, our Central Information Point, and it's checked out the Acts. I'd like to read it out anyway. The Minister denies it. In the Acts, there is literally the following. I quote from that. The Minister said it here in the plenary. I heard it a few months earlier in the committee room. He said it wasn't, but I'll have it checked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u269	You can say it quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u270	In March 2014 he said: "Mr Graus spoke about the payment behaviour of municipalities. Mrs Mulder did the same and asked me to go into that. Last time, I indicated how the Ministry of EZ is doing. Of course, this is only of interest to the Members concerned. They are particularly interested in the government as a whole. That's what I've made clear. It was all pretty good." That's exactly what I said! It's all okay, you're overreacting. It's literally in the Acts! The Minister said so. Where he's standing now, he's still holding up the leaf; I have a photographic memory. The worst thing you can do to me is put me away as a liar. The Minister said it was well done, and that's the end of it. I want that point made. I've got a printout of the Acts here. I'd like to give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u271	All this comes back to the Acts. You made your point of order. As far as I know, the word you use is not used. I'm not gonna repeat it. You have been able to make your point and I think you have been able to read it in peace. I would now like to start with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u272	Wait a minute, Mr. Chairman. So the care was in the municipalities. Last year 75% of the municipalities were paid on time or not, now 77% of the municipalities. It has been said that all this was not so bad; that is literally in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u273	In my view, Mr Graus is really making a mockery of this. I never said anything was wrong. If 75% or 77% of the municipalities pay in good time, I am not satisfied with that. I think governments should pay in good time. I therefore said that the government's payment behaviour, which was about 90% on time, should be improved. Now I've got that percentage over 95. I have now found that this is in order in the provinces. About the municipalities, I told them to do better there. I'm going to collect that information by municipality, and I'm going to publish that information to enable the municipal councils to correct the case where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u274	I'm going to say something as chairman. Mr. Graus, your point of order has been made and will be in the Acts. The Minister has responded to your point. If you would like to comment on this, you can use your second term. You really have to agree with me that we should now start with the second term. I've given you plenty of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u275	This is a serious matter, Madam President. I would like to say one more thing about this and never come back to it again. I totally agree with the last thing the Minister said. He said that too, but before that he said in a committee room that nothing was wrong. I told you to find out, because it is. He came here, afterwards, back to it. We will go after the words that have been said in the committee room, because I cannot reproduce them at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u276	I think you're both more in agreement than you think. Minister, we are really about to start the second term. I think that is by far the best idea today. I call Mr Smaling, who is speaking on behalf of the SP. He's got five minutes before his second term, but I don't know if he's gonna use it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u277	I don't think so, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the start of his term. I was not there, but I did get what he said about his broader vision of where the Dutch economy should be about 2050. So thank you for that. I'd like to ask a few more questions in my second term. My first question concerns the steel industry. The Minister replied that he did not want to change the so-called "lesser duty rule." He has also said that more needs to be done for the steel industry and that the Dutch position in this area may need to be adjusted. It seems as if the Minister has changed his mind, but the steel industry needs something like this. Of course, many EU countries do not have a steel industry, so there is a bit of an uneven playing field, even within the EU. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on that point. There's gonna be a peek at an energy chord 2.0 after 2023. I understand that goes through to 2050. Can the Minister elaborate a good and robust employment and training section? I have just been talking about the joyful increase in employment as the more sustainable the mix takes up. But that's why I can't figure it out. Nor do I have any idea how you could steer by technology and at the same time on employment and education. The Minister knows that the SP is very attached to that. In my first term, I had asked the Minister about the obligation to connect to new buildings. Can't you get it off right away? We are going to talk about this in the legislative proposal that is coming our way, but I have spoken to network companies and they say that they no longer need the experimental space that that law would provide. So can't we take two steps instead of one? I have another motion that has to do with the companies in Groningen. The Minister has already made a commitment on this point, but I shall table this motion. I can see from his answer whether I can hold or withdraw the motion. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas inventory and recovery of earthquake damage in Groningen creates new activity;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the provision of the requested services to companies in the earthquake region itself,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u278	The Christian Union will probably table a similar motion; we will see if we can put our motions together. I'd like to leave it at that. There are still a number of general consultations to be held in which we can table specific motions on subjects which are then discussed. I think that is a better time for tabling motions than now, during a wide-ranging discussion of the whole area of Economic Affairs. I will continue to fight for Drenthe, but the Minister knows that. I thank him for his contribution so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u279	Mr. Chairman. I have 12 minutes to speak, but I will not use them all. I could tell you something about CDs I've been listening to today. Perhaps the set of CDs given to Mrs Ouwehand's Minister could also be handed over to Mr Graus; then they will have the same amount of energy to have a friendly debate. This afternoon I had a short moment at the office; I told my colleague that you had a singer in 1976, Tol Hansse, but my associate had never heard of him. One of his songs was about a rhododendron and I turned off that song this afternoon, so that was funny. Since I still have 12 minutes to speak, I could say something about that, but that is not the intention. By the way, I am particularly gilded; we all just ate kale with sausage in the Staten restaurant and I see that a lot of movement is already being made in the plenary sitting: we want to go home. At least the Minister's introduction was a very nice one. The VVD Group has tried to underline the importance of entrepreneurs in this debate. In his introduction, the Minister made it very clear that he agrees with that view. Entrepreneurs, both those who focus on exports, on abroad and SMEs, the smaller entrepreneurs, have had a very difficult time, but in the end they have helped us through the crisis. Therefore, I am pleased that the Minister stated in his reply that he is able to bring the MIT regime back to the 2016 standard in 2017. He has succeeded for the coming year and I am very pleased with that. Next, a comment on the debate on brainport and mainport. The Minister gave a very good answer on this point. He said how important this form of region is, regardless of whether we should call it brainport or mainport. I shall table a motion on this matter; I will consider whether it is necessary to maintain it, depending on the Minister's reply. In any case, the answer was fairly clear, but to be sure, I shall submit the motion. I also asked a question about the appointment of a programme manager at the RVO in connection with the innovative developments subsidised by the Ministry, while other ministries often have obstacles to these developments. I mentioned the example of the tractors. The Minister was quite clear about it, but I am still tabling a motion on it. Perhaps I will end up with the motion, after which we will see if it will work in practice as the Minister suggests. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas innovative entrepreneurs often receive support from the public authorities and can be countered by the same public authorities in the market introduction of their innovation, as legislation and regulation are not in line with the new application;]] [[Whereas innovative entrepreneurs may face inspections that are not aware of agreements made, such as green deals, risking production stops and fines in the implementation of an innovation;]] [[Considering that each ministry has its own inspections and that misunderstandings and problems surrounding innovative entrepreneurs cannot be resolved quickly enough;]] [[calls on the Minister to use his powers to broaden experimental legislation, enforce implementation and quickly resolve bottlenecks for innovative entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the Government to link a programme manager through RVO to entrepreneurs who have launched and are in the process of implementing government-driven innovation projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Eindhoven region is of great importance for the innovative power and earning capacity of the Netherlands and is therefore an important mainport for our country;]] [[Whereas a set of factors determines the innovation and competitiveness of our country;]] [[noting that the Hoogland/Visser motion on the concrete implementation agenda for a Spatial Economic Development Strategy (REOS), which also focuses specifically on the Eindhoven region, was adopted, which should improve the international competitiveness of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government, in the short term in cooperation with the Eindhoven region, to find out what contributions have been invested over the past and upcoming years from EZ, I and M and OCW in the Brainport Eindhoven and where additional needs remain to strengthen competitiveness, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-25]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u280	I have plenty of time left, but I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u281	Another colleague can take advantage of that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u282	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the commitment he made today on the MIT scheme: he knows how to put the money on the table so that the scheme can continue at the same level in the coming year. The CDA is very happy about that. I asked the Minister a question about employment in ports with regard to the enormous investments in wind at sea. Does the Cabinet have a special view on this? How can you best shape this in order to prevent it from being done from the ports of England? Can the Minister comment on this? Maybe he wants to look specifically at the head of Noord-Holland or the port of Rotterdam. We'd like to know. Of course we know that everything around Gemini Windpark can best be supplied from the Eemshaven, but is this a vision? Can we get more of that trade to the Netherlands? I have just heard from the Minister that my cover for the amendment in part No. 19 wasn't proper. I would like to remind him of the following. The storage of renewable energy feeds the SDE+ scheme. From there, EUR 50 to EUR 100 million goes to innovation, so I didn't think that was crazy, but now it's impossible. I would like to table a number of motions and make a few comments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the interests of the local economy, viability, education and care initiatives have been launched to achieve fast and stable internet in collaboration with governments;]] [[Considering that the strict European State aid framework in the so-called grey areas constitutes an important obstacle to these initiatives, in particular because an area is already classified as a grey area if a market participant has a plan to provide an area with internet within three years at a rate of at least 30 Mbit/s;]] [[Whereas a three-year period and 30 Mbit/s are requirements that do not fit the rapidly changing digital world;]] [[calls on the government, in the EU, to make the State aid rules for fast internet access in grey areas more flexible in an appropriate way and specifically to work towards reducing the three-year deadline by at least one year and increasing the speed of 30 Mbit/s to at least 50 Mbit/s,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has set itself the target of spending 2,5% of gross domestic product on R&D (research and development) in 2020;]] [[Whereas, in the case of unchanged policies, the likelihood of achieving the objective is low;]] [[whereas private parties in particular will need to invest more in order to achieve the target of 2.5%;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare an analysis to identify ways to ensure that 2.5% of gross domestic product is spent on R&D by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-27]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u283	It is good that the entire Chamber has so much attention for Brainport Eindhoven. I think this is justified. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure (Rli) recommends that the port of Rotterdam, Schiphol, the Amsterdam data hub and Brainport Eindhoven be considered separately;]] [[whereas Brainport Eindhoven is an important economic growth engine for the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet does not yet intend to grant Brainport Eindhoven the status of mainport;]] [[calls on the government, Brainport Eindhoven, to recognise as the mainport of the Netherlands and to work this out with the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the reduced rate scheme in the case of collective producers (postcode rose) is complex and is not yet successful with a few dozen applications;]] [[Whereas residents and cooperatives would like to participate in a scheme where it is more accessible and simpler;]] [[Whereas, in the context of the General Financial Reviews, the Schouten/Nijboer motion (34550, No. 41) on better access to finance for cooperatives with a social purpose was adopted unanimously;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with interested parties, to examine how a simpler regime is possible and to consider making a separate arrangement for solar co-operatives in the SDE+ scheme, and to inform the Court of Justice before the Kerstreces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u284	Then one final point. Last Tuesday we tabled a motion with a majority of the House on financial support for Zeeland. There was some discussion about the interpretation of this motion. The proposers have agreed to change the motion. We would be delighted if the Minister could give an outline of the state of play before the vote, preferably with a start on a financial picture. It seems acceptable to me that the rest of the plans and finances should come in the first quarter of next year. However, there must be a little more clarity before we finally vote on the total budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u285	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister and his support for the comprehensive response and for the warm words about the SME test and the issues I have raised in the report "Listening to Entrepreneurs." The problem with the business impact test is that it is very focused on large companies and that we hear from many that it is actually little or no use. I've listened to the answer well. I made a motion after all. But if we understand each other completely, the Minister will know what I will do with the motion. The motion was co-signed by Mrs Mulder, Mrs Gesthuizen, Mr Bruins and Mr Verhoeven and reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that SMEs are the largest and most important jobs engine in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas new laws and regulations should protect, promote and stimulate investment capacity and job creation in SMEs;]] [[noting that the current tests such as the business impact test for new laws and regulations do not sufficiently safeguard the interests of SMEs;]] [[Considering that many entrepreneurs throughout the country as well as SMEs-Netherlands, the contractors' federation AFNL, NOA, ONL and many others call for new laws and regulations to be subject to a recognizable test;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a separate SME test or an SME statute, if possible within the current review frameworks;]] [[calls on the Government to shape it in such a way as to strengthen the investment and enterprise capacity of SMEs and promote employment in SMEs;]] [[Invites the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 February 2017 so that the results can also be involved in the next cabinet formation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Monasch, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u286	Mr. Chairman. I just got word I've got four minutes. Then I'll speak soon. There was a written response to my question about those unsolicited follow-up transmissions, or flash membership according to some. The Minister says he will only respond at the krokusreces, because he wants to wait for an investigation of the ACM. I do not think that is necessary, because the ACM has received a lot of complaints. This can be seen on the website. I am considering making an initiative for this myself more quickly. The second issue is the brainport. I've talked about that extensively. I would like to table the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Environment and Infrastructure Council (Rli) issued the "Mainports Over" report;]] [[whereas the Rli explicitly designates the contribution of the Brainport Eindhoven to the earning power of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas cooperation between the larger companies in Brainport Eindhoven and their supplying SMEs throughout the Netherlands drives innovation;]] [[Whereas the Rli Brainport Eindhoven calls it an economic core area and advises to connect it to the other two key economic areas, namely the Northern and Southern Randstad, in a Strategy Location climate 2040;]] [[noting that the government does not accept this recommendation in its response to the Mainports report;]] [[Whereas failure to adopt the opinion is undesirable given the increasing contribution of Brainport Eindhoven's business and knowledge institutions to the innovative power and growth of our economy;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt this recommendation of the Environment and Infrastructure Council and to recognise and treat Eindhoven Brainport as an economic core area of national importance in accordance with the Rli's opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u287	In the last two minutes I have a request to my fellow chamber members. I didn't get to that in my first term. It's aboutzzp'ers and the Competition Act. There's gonna be more and morezzp'ers. They are often underpaid. This is true, for example, of the creative sector, and we have received a SER report on this and on the construction sector. That is because they have no negotiating power. They are not allowed to make agreements under the Competition Act. That Competition Act was made at a time when there were a few companies and they had some kind of balance of power. We are now seeing oligopolisation on the one hand: there are many large companies, which therefore have heavy bargaining power, resulting in late payment and poor payment. We have had a lot of discussions about this in the Chamber. On the other hand, there are more and morezzp'ers who are very welcome there, as Mr Graus also said. The Minister says the same thing. But they have no bargaining power. I would like the House to take the initiative of having two scientists, an economist and a lawyer, who are going to tell us what is really going on with the Competition Act. Does it still fit into the business landscape that we now have? I asked the Minister about this in an AO for the summer recess. He talked to the ACM about it. They both believe that this is not necessary. I hear more and more sounds from different angles that it is necessary. I am going to make a proposal to ask, among other things, whether the Competition Act is up-to-date enough, whether there should be an amendment and whether there might be other solutions. I will make that proposal at the Committee on Economic Affairs' procedural meeting. I just heard the good news about New York City, where the so-called Freelance Isn't Free Act was adopted an hour ago. With that law, which a number of freelancers have filed together in New York and for which they have fought, freelancers in New York get a lot more rights to stand up against exploitation, low rates, late payment or no payment. What the New Yorkers can do, so can we. This first requires an opinion on the Competition Act, which the Court itself must ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u288	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider the length of time for which the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Guarantee Scheme can or should be extended further;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the most common complaint from small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) is that banks do not provide credit;]] [[Whereas SMEs are an important driver of the Dutch economy;]] [[noting that banks do not adequately fulfil their original role of savings and credit banks;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for setting up a state savings and entrepreneurial bank,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to increase the guarantee premium for SME loans;]] [[Whereas this increase severely restricts access to the scheme;]] [[Whereas this scheme allows many SMEs to survive;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the premium increase;]] [[calls on the Government to build a fund to finance the SME scheme in worse times in times of economic prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands there are around 1 million self-employed people without staff, to be divided into different types, including "voluntary" and "needed" entrepreneurs;]] [[having also noted that allzzp'ers are treated in the same way and are confronted with obstructive and/or unnecessarily stifling regulations;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a (temporary) Task Force ZZP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-33]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-35]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u289	I have another motion, which I do not know if I will be able to get into the PvdA's water with regard to the SME test. I'm not sure what that means. I'd like to hear that from my colleagues later. I may be willing to withdraw the motion, but I'm filing it now. I've had the motion for a long time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to first assess the proposed policy rules for administrative taxableness, feasibility and feasibility in small and medium-sized enterprises;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u290	If all these points are included in the PvdA's SME test, I will, as I said, withdraw the motion. I wish you a blessed evening, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u291	Mr. Chairman. I'll read out two motions first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that current top sectors policy runs for more than five years;]] [[Whereas policies have good aspects, such as promoting cooperation between business knowledge institutions and public authorities;]] [[Considering that several bodies, such as the WRR, the CPB, the National Science Agenda and the AWTI, and also the Minister for Economic Affairs, have highlighted the need for innovation policy reform towards finding solutions to societal challenges;]] [[calls on the government to make solutions to societal challenges increasingly central to top sector policies through gradual reforms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Mei Li Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u292	I have also announced the next motion on the StartupDelta. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for the public authorities to compete directly with the Startup Fest conferences with similar start-up conferences organised by entrepreneurs without taxpayers' money;]] [[calls on the Government to stop organising Startup Fest conferences that compete directly with conferences organised by entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u293	I welcome the Minister's response on most points. Thank you for the commitment on cookies and the search for ways to regulate this in Europe via the browsers on the basis of the e-Privacy Directive. Thanks for the response to the motions on Brainport Eindhoven. I believe that three motions have now been tabled on Brainport Eindhoven. Mr Ziengs has tabled one, but he is about to withdraw it or hold it. That motion sounded good. I also liked the motions tabled by Mrs Vos and Mrs Mulder. I co-signed it. As far as I am concerned, we could have tabled ten motions on Brainport Eindhoven, but let us make sure that something is going to happen for the economic core region of Eindhoven, because that is of course what this is about. That is a very important development. We talked about the top sectors for four years. I have spoken loud and clear about this. I hope that social challenges will become more central. I hope that the motion will be supported by the cabinet. Also look at the top sector chemistry. That is where the societal challenges have been put at the centre. Let that be the way, so that at some point those challenges are really central.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u294	Mr. Chairman. When we talk about the climate transition, 2020 is actually tomorrow. I was very pleased with some of the things that Minister Kamp said today. He shows that he is keen to look beyond 2020. He is looking towards 2030 and has laid down a number of ideas about a future agreement based more on CO emissions. That also makes sense to me. He also mentioned cascading of biomass. I'd like to get on with it soon. I hope the Minister will consider the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas biomass can play an important role in the sustainability of the chemical sector;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with both the chemicals sector and the energy sector, to examine how, within the 25 petajoule for biomass added from the energy agreement, an impetus can be given to the cascading of biomass, for example by an increasing percentage of cascading biomass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u295	In line with the own-initiative paper that I have submitted, I ask the Minister to ensure that clarity is quickly established on this point. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Energy Agreement with energy-intensive industry agreed to save sector 9 petajoule by 2020;]] [[Considering that the Minister intends to impose an obligation and that it is important that there be rapid clarification of that obligation so that companies have sufficient time to reach the 9 petajoule by 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to take a decision on the establishment of an obligation for this cabinet period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u296	On the next motion, the Minister and I will probably disagree. I think it is important that we put a stick behind the door to ensure that the most ambitious sustainability criteria in the world are really a sound system. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Energy Agreement agreed that subsidies for biomass co-incineration should only be provided on condition that strict sustainability criteria are met;]] [[Whereas those sustainability criteria have not yet been fully agreed;]] [[calls on the Government not to pay the subsidy on biomass co-incineration until full agreement on the sustainability criteria has been reached,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u297	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the construction sector has a large number of innovative SMEs;]] [[Whereas building innovation should come from a system-oriented approach that cannot be achieved by individual SMEs;]] [[Considering that the approach of top sector policy is aimed at giving a sector its own direction on innovation in the public and private sectors;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the construction sector, to set up an innovative and sustainable construction management team which has been linked to the top sector policy in such a way that public-private research in that sector is eligible for TKI surcharge;]] [[calls on the government to put together the management team in such a way that SMEs are represented and sustainable initiatives such as the Streamspeed Network have a place in it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Energy Innovation Demonstration (DEI) grant scheme is open to demonstration projects in industry in the field of energy innovation;]] [[noting that important sectors operating in international competition, such as chemicals and shipbuilding, have to do with pilots that are also directly the commercial end product;]] [[Notes that in competing countries such as Germany, aid to innovative shipbuilding will continue on this basis until the end of 2017;]] [[calls on the government to pay EUR 5 million within the DEI budget on this basis and to separate it specifically for a subsidy scheme for innovative shipbuilding leading to more sustainable products, energy savings and less CO emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas extraction in the province of Groningen leads to damage to homes and buildings and the need for preventive reinforcement;]] [[Whereas local entrepreneurs do not have sufficient opportunities, particularly in the event of damage to risky building elements, such as chimneys and balconies, because the Safe Living Centre (CVW) has awarded these contracts to a select number of contractors;]] [[Considering that the NAM and the CVW grant the extensive reinforcement notice to a select number of contractors who also have to comply with the qualification system, and that there is no freedom of choice for disabled residents in the event of preventive reinforcement;]] [[considers that there should be fair access for local contractors to damage recovery and preventive reinforcement contracts and that freedom of choice for disabled residents should be guaranteed at all times;]] [[calls on the government, at the CVW and the National Coordinator, to ensure fair access of local entrepreneurs to assignments for reinforcement and damage recovery, including in the case of high-risk building elements, and to give residents freedom of choice when working on their homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-43]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-44]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u298	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government is aiming for an economy that in the long term relies as little on fossil energy as possible and that our infrastructure must fit in with this;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is in favour of a new construction declaration;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the gas connection obligation for new buildings as soon as possible from the relevant legislation and regulations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas social enterprises can be a valuable addition to the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the government, to strive for a top ten position for the Netherlands on the global index for social entrepreneurship, as compiled by the Thomson Reuters Foundation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more than 90 municipalities and parties, including network operators, want existing homes to become gas-free by 2030;]] [[Whereas the transition to gas-free neighbourhoods has an impact on the necessity and value of existing gas infrastructure;]] [[calls on the government to identify the desirability of directing municipalities to develop plans to free gas from existing neighbourhoods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas electric driving can contribute to sustainable mobility;]] [[noting that the government's incentives are currently focused mainly on the business driver;]] [[calls on the government to map out how electric driving by individuals can be promoted financially or otherwise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-46]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Jan Vos and Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-47]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-48]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u299	I have therefore tabled the last motion entirely on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u300	Good. I call Mrs Ouwehand. Are you still by voice, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u301	We'll see how understanding my contribution remains, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the reviews of the CDs of Death Alley and Monomyth. I would also like to thank him for his commitment to look at what is possible within the budget for the top creative industry for supporting the plan to help successful Dutch bands to conquer foreign markets. There are good opportunities in this respect. It would be nice if the Ministry of Economic Affairs remained involved. I have challenged the Minister to show some wisdom now, which he may feel more free to do once his ministry has finished. He's already given us a little insight into that. On the one hand, he began his introduction by singing praises of the pleasures of the free trade agreements, treaties that I do not like. In reply to Mr Smaling's question on how the Netherlands would stand in 2050, he also indicated that there is a great need to restore balance with nature, and to know that the answer to Mr Smaling's question depends only on whether we are able to take effective action against human rights violations. I do not rule out the fact that, once he is no longer a minister, he admits that these free trade agreements had far greater disadvantages than he has the courage to admit here in the Chamber. It would be nice if he could confirm that in his position as Minister before leaving trade union K. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that coal flows make a major contribution to global warming;]] [[Considering the broad support for the rapid closure of coal power plants in the Netherlands and the need to generate sufficient renewable energy in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that coal power can and will be denied access to the Dutch electricity grid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the additional EUR 150 million announced grant for monofertilisers and to use these funds instead to provide an additional incentive for solar energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-50]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u302	My vote is still holding, Mr President, so I shall table one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we are at the beginning of the energy transition from fossil to sustainable and that this transition requires substantial investment;]] [[noting that adverse environmental impacts may also occur in the production of renewable energy;]] [[believes that every euro available for this energy transition should be spent as sustainably as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, in the future allocation of renewable energy grants, that the whole life cycle of the kilowatt hours generated is considered in order to give priority to the most sustainable forms of renewable energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u303	That's all I have to say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u304	I hear it. I wish you all the strength and at least some rest in the coming days. I call Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u305	Mr. Chairman. I only have one minute. I am also the last speaker and this is the Minister's last budget. I have a brief motion. I want to investigate ethnic profiling in the entrepreneurial market. I would like to ask the Minister to carry out this investigation and to ensure that his successor can get on with it so that we can get back to work with this person. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that, because of the principle of equality, it is undesirable to have ethnic profiling in the entrepreneurial market;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the existence of ethnic profiling in the entrepreneurial market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XIII-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u306	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs for his answer in the second term. It will consist mainly of advising on the numerous motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u307	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with Mr Smaling. He had some questions I'd like to answer. His first question was whether I might have changed my mind with regard to the steel industry. I am very glad that he considers me able to change my mind one day, so that is really a step forward! In this case, he's not, so I'm gonna have to disappoint him. Lesser duty rule is intended to deal adequately with unfair competition from China for the European steel industry. In assessing this, account should also be taken of the steel processing industry. We have a lot of steel processing industry in Europe. It would be very bad to focus only on the steel-producing European industry and not take these other interests into account. I believe that the Lesser Duty Rule will enable effective action to be taken against unfair Chinese and other imports of steel. I have noted, and I am still saying this, that if industry can prove that this is not the case, and therefore the application of the Lesser Duty Rule cannot effectively deal with unfair imports, and if the steel industry is not affected by this, then we must be able to depart from it. But that has not yet been demonstrated by the industry, despite the fact that I have asked for this. As long as that is not the case, we will stick to the Lesser duty rule. We believe that it provides the best protection for all European industries against unfair competition. Mr Smaling also spoke about the energy agenda. He asked for this energy agenda to include employment and training in relation to employment for the period 2023-2050. I think it is useful to do what Mr Smaling has said. I therefore intend to pay attention to this in the energy agreement. In his motion in part No. 24 Mr Smaling asked the government to ensure that companies in the earthquake region would be the first to be eligible to provide the services requested to repair damage and so on. I think that should be done. However, we must ensure that we respect the rules that apply to invitations to tender and that sort of thing. Moreover, we must ensure that we get value for money. I agree with Mr Smaling's approach, along with Mrs Mulder. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 24 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u308	Judgment of the Chamber on the motion in part No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u309	Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Ziengs. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ziengs on his excellent report. He asks for a programme manager at the RVO to be linked to entrepreneurs who have launched government-encouraged innovation projects and have problems in implementation. This can be because they run into rules elsewhere that are contrary to what we encourage them to do. I think it is useful what Mr Ziengs says. I have yet to see how I am going to shape it exactly, but I think it is useful that this provision should be introduced. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u310	Judgment of the Chamber on the motion in part No. 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u311	In the motion in part No. 26 asks Mr Ziengs, in cooperation with the Eindhoven region, to find out in the short term what contributions have been or are being invested in the brainport from EZ, I and M and OCW in recent years and to inform the Chamber about them. I think it is good to present the contributions that have been invested in recent years from the different ministries and are still foreseen, as Mr Ziengs asks. What is important is that we look at how these resources, which are available in the existing schemes, can be used to the full or used more effectively. I think he means it that way. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u312	Judgment of the Chamber on the motion in part No. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u313	I have here the motion in part No. 27 by Mrs Mulder. Mrs Mulder also spoke about the position of Dutch ports with regard to activities for wind farms at sea. I think our ports have a very good starting point for that. If we are right off our coast at 18.5 kilometers away, in the case of Borssele at 21 kilometers away, the five largest wind farms in the world, you are of course in a good position from the Dutch ports. Based on everything you do there and the experience you gain, you can also do well elsewhere in the North Sea. So I am not afraid that there will be job losses as a result of the Brexit. I think the Dutch ports have a very good starting position. Mrs Mulder also asked for an initial outline of the projects which are taking place in Zeeland and which need to be further developed in the coming period before the vote on the EZ budget. In the first quarter of 2017, I want to come up with my collected information and my conclusions on this. I would like to do that before the vote on the EZ budget. I cannot say anything yet about financial coverage, because we are not yet in those projects. It would be premature for me to say something about that. I will come up with that first sketch, as requested by Mrs Mulder. Then I come to the motion on part No. 27 by Mrs Mulder and Mrs Oosenbrug on State aid rules. I intend to address the issue raised in the motion together with Mrs Oosenbrug in the general consultation on Telecommunications of 21 December 2016. In due course, I will send a letter on this matter, in which I will address this issue in more detail. I think it would be a good time for the Chamber to rule on it. I would suggest to Mrs Mulder that the motion on item No. 27 until we have had that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u314	I am giving the Minister that opportunity, because I think it is important that it is done. That's a good time to work on it. I hope, of course, that in that letter there is what I request in my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u315	At the request of Mrs Agnes Mulder, I propose her motion (3450-XIII, No. 27). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u316	Mrs Mulder asks in the motion for a resolution for item No. 28 whether the government intends to present an analysis on how to ensure that 2.5% of GDP is spent on R&D by 2020. I have already gone into this in detail. I will not repeat what I said at the time, but if the Chamber makes this request, I do not think I can put it next to me. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u317	The Minister leaves the judgment on the motion in part No. 28 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u318	In the motion in part No. 29 by Mrs Mulder and Mr Verhoeven, the government is asked to recognise brainports as mainports. I don't want to do that. As I have already said, one is not more or more than the other. The status of mainport, if any, is not linked to financial resources. I think I have made it clear how I see the importance of brainport and what I want to do in that regard. In the motion Eindhoven is asked to give Eindhoven a status that, in my opinion, does not make Eindhoven any better. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 29 therefore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u319	The motion in part No. 29 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u320	In the motion in part No. 30 Ms Mulder asked the government to make a separate arrangement for solar energy cooperatives in the SDE+. I don't want to do that. I have already indicated what the line of the SDE+ is and that I only do something with it as I have done with regard to wind at sea and the monofertilization. However, I do not want to do so on this point. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 30. I think this is very unwise. If we do this too much in the SDE+, it will not work well anymore, whereas it is an exemplary arrangement that has already been followed up a great deal in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u321	The motion in part No. 30 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u322	I'm coming to the Monasch c.s. motion. in piece No. 31. In that motion, Mr Monasch indicated that he wanted a separate SME test. I have a need to meet Mr Monasch with that SME test, but I cannot ignore the fact that this business impact test already has very explicit provisions on SMEs. So I would like to take a critical look at whether this has been put optimally for SMEs in this business impact test. I will also discuss this with SMEs in the Netherlands. Then, together with that organisation, I will look at whether we are applying it to the best possible extent, including to SMEs. Are the effects on SMEs always well reflected? So I want to do what Mr Monasch asks, but I do not want to take a separate SME test. If he agrees with the explanation I give, namely that in this way I am going to look more critically at the existing business impact assessment and then follow it in consultation with SMEs-Netherlands, then I could leave the opinion on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u323	I would like to say two things about the interpretation of the motion. The business impact test focuses mainly on large companies and is mainly about SMEs. That is mentioned in it, but that comes in the back as a kind of residual question at point 6 and later at point 9 a little bit more. The key is quite static and is hardly applied. In that sense, I also give the Minister the free hand in the motion. My question is actually: do you want to investigate that and do you want to report on this before 1 February? If the minister says we can do it in there, we can see it. If the Minister says that, after consulting all kinds of trade associations, he has come to the conclusion that it does not work and that he has a better solution for this, then that is up to the Minister, but then we can discuss it on the basis of his report. So I do not want to prescribe anything in advance, but I ask the Minister not to rule anything out in advance, because I think we can share the purpose of this. I would like to say one thing: I like the Dutch SMEs very much, but there are other trade associations and I hope that the Minister will also involve them. That way we can see together what the best proposal is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u324	I'm going to do what Mr Monasch says. This means that I will have a broader consultation with the organisations representing SMEs and I will take a critical look at the business impact assessment. Like Mr Monasch, I believe that SMEs are at the heart of Dutch business. So I am particularly interested in what this business impact test means for SMEs. I shall therefore deal with the matter in the manner outlined by Mr Monasch, and I shall inform the Chamber accordingly. If the explanation we have both now given is in line with the intention of the motion, then I leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u325	The motion in part No. 31 is at the discretion of the Chamber with this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u326	Then the motion can be embraced and does not need to be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u327	That's what the petitioner is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u328	That's true, I could have said that, but I didn't say it. It is a justified point from Mr Ziengs, but I have already said what I intend to do with it. Mrs Vos also had two other points. The first point concerned the adaptation of the Van Dam Act with regard to the automatic termination of pilot subscriptions. I have already indicated that I will take seriously the problems of consumers who get stuck with an expensive subscription. Before making a decision, I would first like to consult with ACM and other parties and to inform me about the nature and extent of the problem. I think it would be reasonable to inform the Chamber about this before the krokusreces. I will. Mrs Vos made another appeal to the Chamber regardingzzp'ers. I think it would be appropriate not to give an opinion on this and leave it to the Chamber to decide what it will do with it. In the motion-Mei Li Vos c.s. in piece No. 32 The government is asked to adopt the recommendation of the Environment and Infrastructure Council and to recognise and treat the brainport as an economic core area of national importance in accordance with the Rli's opinion. The difference between this motion by Mrs Vos, co-signed by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Verhoeven, and Mrs Mulder's motion is that Mrs Mulder wants to give the brainport the status of mainport. I didn't see any sense in that. What is being asked for in this motion seems to me to be sensible, and that is why I leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 32 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u329	The motion in part No. 32 is at the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u330	The motion in part No. Mr Graus asked whether the SME scheme could be extended further. In November 2013, we launched a number of extensions. Like Mr Graus, we were of the opinion that the recovery of the Dutch economy was an important means of achieving this. We have raised the ceiling from EUR 1 million to EUR 1.5 million, and we have increased the guarantee rate of small loans to €200,000 from 45% to 67.5%. For these smaller loans, the State guarantees two thirds. If there is a problem with a loan of €100,000, the bank will eventually pay €33,000 and the state will pay €67,000. So we've drawn that much more towards us. Moreover, with my letter of 7 July, I extended the temporary extension until the end of the following year. I think I have acted in the spirit of Mr Graus and I therefore suggest that he withdraw this motion. If he doesn't, I'll dissuade her, because I've already done what he asks in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u331	Mr Graus hesitates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u332	I'll withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u333	Since the Graus motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u334	The Graus motion in part No. 34 calls for an examination of the possibilities for setting up a state savings and entrepreneurial bank. The cabinet is currently investigating the establishment of a Dutch financing institution. I know that this is not entirely in line with what Mr Graus wants. We believe that this is important for the financing of SMEs. The creation of a savings bank or an entrepreneurial bank is something else, but our investigation into the Dutch financing institution is going a long way in that direction. I do not recommend this motion, but I think that with what we are doing we are already responding to what Mr Graus is trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u335	The motion in part No. 34 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u336	In the Graus motion to item No. 35 calls for a fund to be set up to finance the SME scheme in worse times. A budgetary reserve has already been set up to cover losses at the SME. In recent years, however, losses have been much higher than the available amount. We had to cover these additional costs in a different way. Because I see that without a premium increase, additional deficits will have to be financed over the next few years, on top of the reserve, I have proposed what I have proposed. That is why I have not only discouraged the amendments tabled on this subject, but I also advise against this motion by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u337	The Graus motion in part No. 35 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u338	In the Graus motion to item No. 36 is asked to enter a temporary task force zzp. We have already done something that Mr Graus asks; we have carried out an interdepartmental investigation intozzp'ers, ibozzp. A working party has been working on this and has produced a report on it. That's what we sent the Chamber. We remain open to signals from the field. We will have to deal with the various ministries and ministers very much with the one millionzzp'ers Mr Graus talked about. In addition to the ibo zzp working group, I do not think it is good to set up a task force again. I went into this in the first place. I reject the Graus motion in part No. 36.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u339	The Graus motion in part No. 36 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u340	I am personally opposed to every task force there has been, but this is a million people. I've also made a bit of an inventory of different associations andzzp'ers. There was a real demand for a task force. I'd like to see it a little wider. I've ordered it to be a temporary task force. That wasn't in the motion at first, but I put that in there. It should also be a point of contact where they can go, i.e. a task force in the broadest sense of the word. It's a little wider than the minister just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u341	I keep Mr Graus' input in mind. We'll talk aboutzzp'ers a lot in the next few days. I've already told him we've come a long way with the ibozzp. He's giving us a further focus. I'll hold that. Right now, I'm dissuading this motion, as I just did. Then I come to the Verhoeven/Vos motion on part No. 38.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u342	I also have a motion on part No. 37.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u343	Then I shall first return to the Graus motion on part No. 37 in which he asks for the proposed policy rules to be examined first for administrative taxableness, feasibility and feasibility in small and medium-sized enterprises. What this motion is asking for is in fact what Mr Monasch wants. I have given an explanation to that effect, which also covers what Mr Graus is trying to do with this motion. If what I said to Mr Monasch can also be said to Mr Graus, it may not be necessary for him to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u344	I have tabled motions of this kind in several years, so I would have found it sporting if Mr Monasch had wanted me to sign up. Then I could withdraw this motion. I understand him, because then there might be a problem with his party. It would be sporty, because we've been on top of that for years. I would like to withdraw the motion, but I may be able to put my name under Mr Monasch's motion, but you probably won't allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u345	The President has no further role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u346	Let me just say something about the operative part. The main issue at stake in this motion is the question of what the Hague legislation means for business capacity and the opportunities for job creation. That's in the operative part of my motion. This administrative burden is also being tested in many other places, so it is important that you put it into its power. That's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u347	I would like to thank Mr Monasch and then put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u348	This motion will be put to the vote and then the verdict will be Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u349	One moment, please, Madam President. I shall refer to the Graus motion in part No. 37 in the light of Mr Monasch's motion. I should like to go into the business impact assessment in more detail. In that light, I shall also look at this motion. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 37 left to the Chamber. In the motion by Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Vos, on item No. 38 The government is invited to make solutions to societal challenges increasingly central to top sector policies through gradual reforms. I think what's in this motion should be done. I'm also working on that with conviction. I think it is important that there is broad support for business policy and for maintaining the good Dutch position in the world. This motion can contribute to that, I think. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. Thirty-eight left to the chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u350	The judgment on the motion in part No. 38 is in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u351	In the motion in part No. 39 Mr Verhoeven asked the government to stop organising "Startup Fest" conferences. They should not be organised in the same way as they have been this year. I would advise the Chamber not to make that statement. We have really done a lot to get the start-up world in the Netherlands moving and organized, to ensure a distribution across the country and to involve many people. We have made an additional 50 million per year available to support start-ups. We also put them abroad. Soon I'm going to America with a group of start-ups. To all the enthusiasm we have unleashed, Startup Fest has certainly contributed. I do not know what needs to be done next year on this issue, but I do know that we will involve business as much as possible, just as we did now. However, I think it is unnecessary that the Court should now state that there is something we should not do on this point. I'd like to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u352	The motion in part No. 39 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u353	In the motion in part No. 40 says Mrs Van Veldhoven that consideration should be given to how, within the 25 petajoule for biomass, an impetus can be given to the cascading of biomass. I need to dissuade this motion with a little heart pain. We also use biomass that meets the strictest criteria in the world. However, the composition of this biomass is such that the biomass is not directly usable for cascading. However, I do believe that cascading is the future if we want to make optimal use of biomass. I do not recommend this motion, but apart from that, I would like to see how we can go about cascading, how we can get it going and what is the relationship between the 25 petajoule flow and what is to happen in the future. I think it would be a good idea to write that out and link it to each other. Maybe we should be working on things and stuff. So I am not really far from Mrs Van Veldhoven. She could do two things. I advise against this motion, but if it withdraws it, I have promised her what I have just said, namely that I do want to work in the spirit of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u354	Of course, I'm happy about that. Could the Minister perhaps go so far as to see how we can use it in the coming years? I think it would be a lost opportunity if we did not allow the 4 billion we are going to spend on subsidising biomass by-products to have a structural effect on the Dutch economy. I would like it so much if we had that money, while we are spending it, working twice for the Dutch economy. That's why I'm looking at the current.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u355	Now I must distance myself from Mrs Van Veldhoven. I think I should stick to the energy agreement. In my first term, I also argued that. I can't muck about on all kinds of parts. With all due respect to Mrs Van Veldhoven, we are talking about mortification. After all, she says that I have to do something else with part of the 25 petajoule. I shouldn't immediately turn that into renewable energy. However, I need this. It accounts for 1.2% of my objectives of 14 and 16%. So I really need that 25 petajoule. However, I do believe in the future of cascading and the better use of biomass. I don't think cookies and mosquitoes have a long future. I want to go a long way in the spirit of Mrs Van Veldhoven's motion, but I do not want to do it as it stands in that motion. It seems to me best that Mrs Van Veldhoven withdraws her motion. She knows how much we feel about it together and she knows how I want to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u356	I told you, I'm happy about that. This commitment from the Minister is also a profit. This is my last attempt. The motion asks: discuss this with the parties to the energy agreement and examine with them whether they also believe that something can happen in the coming period. I made the motion for a resolution this way on purpose. I am not asking the Minister to unilaterally adjust the agreements. I ask him to investigate this in consultation with the parties. I understand that the Minister does not wish to change the agreements unilaterally. But why should we fail to see whether the parties themselves are prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u357	It is my responsibility to ensure that the energy agreement is implemented. That means I'm looking for solutions to problems when there are problems. But I'm not gonna make any trouble. I have an agreement that a maximum of 25 petajoules can be co-heated and co-heated. That's 1.2%. I need this for my goals. So I want to stick to that. I'm not gonna talk to those parties because I want to change something about those appointments. If other parties signal problems, I'm gonna try to solve those problems, but I'm not gonna make any problems of my own. So I'm not gonna do this. I don't want to go any further than what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u358	The motion in part No. 40 is therefore dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u359	Yes. In the motion in part No. 41 Ms Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren asked the government to take a decision on the establishment of an obligation during this cabinet period. I intend to, but we have to be real. There are several possibilities. I'm gonna do one or the other. I'm working on two things, and I have to make a decision. I therefore also have to decide on the establishment of an obligation, but I do not know whether it will be that obligation; it may also be that we do not do so and that we agree with the parties that we can do it in another way. I'll leave that open. I'd like to leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. But I'm still working on this. I'm gonna see what comes out of it. I'm making a decision, but I'm not getting ahead of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u360	The Minister leaves the judgment on the motion in part No. 41 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u361	Thank you very much, Madam President. I've thought you'd have to be here before. In the motion in part No. 42 Ms Van Veldhoven asked the government not to pay the subsidy on biomass co-incineration until a full agreement was reached on the sustainability criteria. We also disagree on this. We have laid down those sustainability criteria in the energy agreement. I'm just sticking to that. So I'm gonna go through with that. I don't want to suspend things, I want to go through with it. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 42.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u362	The Minister dissuade the motion in part No. 42.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u363	In the motion in part No. 43 Mr Bruins said that the government should set up a management team in which SMEs were represented. This concerns "innovative and sustainable construction." The Power Acceleration network must also have a place in it, he says. His goal is to make this eligible for the TKI bonus. If we start working with this sector and if there are initiatives from the sector that are in line with our energy and high-tech schemes, it is indeed possible to qualify for a TKI bonus. I think what this motion says, with the explanation I have just given, is feasible. That is why I would like to make the assessment of the motion on item No. Forty-three left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u364	The judgment on the motion in part No. 43 is in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u365	Now the motion in part No. 44. I have already argued for Mr Bruins and the Chamber as a whole why I do not want to do this. There are good reasons for this DEI scheme, so the subsidy scheme Demonstration Energy Innovation. There are good reasons for such state aid. It must be used to the full and everyone must be given a fair chance. Those who fulfil the conditions may make use of them. The same applies to shipbuilding. For this reason, I advise against this motion in part No. 44. In the motion in part No. 45, tabled by Mr Bruins and Mrs Dik-Faber, invites the government to urge the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator Groningen to ensure fair access of local entrepreneurs to assignments for reinforcement and damage recovery, including for risky building elements, and to give residents freedom of choice when working on their homes. That's exactly what I've appointed the coordinator for. He's got to dive in here. He needs to look into things and see if parties can agree. If that is not the case, he must ensure that agreement is reached, then he must make a decision. We stand in the way of the coordinator when the Chamber makes a preliminary ruling on this matter. This is a point of interest given to the coordinator by Mr Bruins and Mrs Dik-Faber. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 45.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u366	The motion in part No. 45 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u367	In the motion in part No. 46 tabled by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Vos, the government is asked to remove the gas connection obligation for new buildings as soon as possible from the relevant legislation and regulations. I'm working on the energy agenda. I told the Chamber I'd be here by the end of the year. The point raised in the motion is an important part of that. I will give a vision and lay down a package of measures that need to be implemented in a coherent manner. I'd like to discuss that package with the Chamber. The Chamber may then determine whether I have made the request in the motion and then decide whether a motion is still needed. I would ask the authors of the motion for a resolution to take part in the vote. 46 to hold this motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u368	The motion is dissuaded. The Minister is suggesting that we hold the motion. We shall see whether this suggestion is accepted before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u369	In the motion in part No. 47, tabled by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Vos and Mr Bruins, the government is invited to strive for a top 10 position for the Netherlands on the global index for social entrepeneurship. I have the same feeling about social entrepreneurs as Mr Ziengs. We both think: are these entrepreneurs other than social entrepreneurs? I give the example of a bikemaker in a neighbourhood in Amsterdam, who does his job well, employs a Wajanger and deals with the neighborhood in a fun way. I think that's a very social entrepreneur. He may not be covered by the definition of a social entrepreneur used by the proposers of the motion, but I still think he is a social entrepreneur. I do not like the distinction between social and non-social entrepreneurs. The pursuit of a top ten position is not the way I approach this issue. On certain aspects of social entrepreneurship, although I did not come up with it myself, I would like to talk, but I am not prepared to do so in the motion in part No. Forty-seven to be carried out. Therefore, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u370	The motion in part No. 47 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u371	I think that it is mainly about the sentimental value that the word'social' has, as if other entrepreneurs were antisocial, but I think the Minister knows very well that something else is meant here. You might as well say that every entrepreneur is a sustainable entrepreneur, because every entrepreneur wants to run his business sustainably, if by "sustainable" you mean: in the long term. This is a somewhat modernistic way of using the word "social," but this word is not meant as the opposite of antisocial. It is more a question of whether an entrepreneur is primarily focused on making profits, which is very legitimate, or above all on an added value for society. The latter does not generally make a profit. That is why such entrepreneurs are seen internationally as a different category. If I remove the word "social" from the motion and use a term that explains better what is meant, would the Minister look at the motion differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u372	No, with the concept of social entrepreneurship, Mrs Van Tongeren is not the right place for me. I can create a foundation and then set up a bicycle repair shop in that district in Amsterdam. If I then make myself director of that foundation and pay myself €100,000 in salary, I am a social enterprise, a foundation, but then I earn three times as much as I would earn as ordinary entrepreneur. I don't like to call it social and I don't like to call it social. I also think that this does wrong to a lot of entrepreneurs. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 47. The motion in part No. 48 belongs to members Van Tongeren and Jan Vos. Something beautiful is already growing here, I see. This motion calls on the government to identify the desirability of directing municipalities in order to develop plans to free gas from existing neighbourhoods. It could be. We will soon be able to agree on the gas-free nature of new neighbourhoods. Existing neighbourhoods involve major interventions that you can combine, for example a major renovation and the renewal of the gas network. Then you can say: we don't; we're going to do something else instead. I can very well imagine that the municipalities are closely involved in this. I would say: leave it to me to work on this in the energy agenda. I also think that this is an important point. This is the same as for the other motion: the energy agenda is being anticipated. I've worked hard on that. It covers the period from 2024 to 2050. I built it up through an energy report, an energy dialogue and now the energy agenda. It would be a pity if the Chamber made statements in advance which, if the energy agenda is there and we can talk about it, could be put in a different light. The motion is premature, so I ask the petitioners to apprehend her. If that doesn't happen, I'm free to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u373	The request is for the motion in part No. 48 to be held, or it will be dissuaded. It might be useful if you respond to this for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u374	I would like to see how the data falls: when will these motions be voted on and when will the energy agenda come? We may get the energy agenda before these motions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u375	These motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u376	I thought they were going to vote on the budget, but that is not the case. I would like to discuss this with the other signatory, who is not present tonight because of personal circumstances. That is why I do not respond directly to the Minister's request. I am very pleased to hear that it is going that way with the energy agenda. We will look for a way not to get in the way of the Minister and to put the motions to the vote in a proper manner. Before that, I need to look at the timing and talk to my co-author.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u377	I appreciate that. In her motion in part No. 49 Mrs Van Tongeren asks the government to map out how electric driving by private individuals can be promoted financially or otherwise. I am not talking about it, but Mrs van Tongeren is always inclined to make clear statements at an early stage. My position is precisely to prepare important subjects properly, to have an opinion on them and then to inform the Court of Justice about them. On 29 November there is a general consultation with me on electric transport. Mrs Van Tongeren has already heard from me in my first term of office how I feel about this in a general sense. Electric transport will in any case be the case for all passenger cars within not too long. Then you get the tractors, trucks, buses and so on. I have already announced that I will send a letter to the Chamber in which I will give my views on this subject. That letter can then be dealt with in the general consultation held on 29 November. This motion does not contain the name of Mr Vos, so Mrs Van Tongeren could hold this motion on her own. I'll wait and see if she does. Otherwise, I'll advise against this motion as premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u378	The motion in part No. 49 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u379	In her motion in part No. 50 Mrs Ouwehand asks the government to ensure that coal power can and will be denied access to the Dutch electricity grid. It can't be. If there is electricity coming from Germany, you cannot say: just give the electricity generated by windmills and pull out the coal flow, the power from nuclear power stations that are still running in Germany and the lignite flow for a while. None of that is possible. It is also contrary to the free movement of goods, as laid down in the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u380	The motion in part No. 50 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u381	In her motion in part No. 51 Mrs Ouwehand asks me not to pay the amount of EUR 150 million for monofertilisers as I did. I think I should, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u382	The motion in part No. 51 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u383	In the motion in part No. Mrs Ouwehand's 52 points out that, for the future allocation of renewable energy subsidies, we must consider the whole life cycle of the kilowatt hours generated. The background to this may be that a few Swiss have claimed that if you put down solar panels and you look at what energy it has cost to produce those solar panels and what they then produce, but 85% of the energy that has been put in them will eventually come out again. In the meantime, there are others who have calculated this and who say that there is eight to nine times as much energy as it was put in at the time. So there is really very different opinion about that. I think we should stay out there. We know what renewable energy is. This is also laid down in European directives. We are trying to make the issue as efficient as possible in all these areas of renewable energy at the lowest possible cost. I think that we should continue to do so, including as regards solar panels. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 52.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u384	That judgment doesn't surprise me. However, I would like to prevent the Chamber from thinking that I was talking about solar energy here. This is really about the manure fermentation, which I mentioned in my contribution. If you look at how much energy has preceded the formation of the manure in the Netherlands at all, you would not be able to call that energy form, if you look at the whole life cycle. I know that this does not change the Minister's opinion, but I want to make it clear to colleagues that, as far as I am concerned, that does not apply to solar energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u385	Mrs Ouwehand has made that clear in my direction too. I could not see it directly from the motion, but Mrs Ouwehand's explanatory statement is clear. Then the motion to part No. 53 by Mr Öztürk, inviting the government to investigate ethnic profiling among migrants. I can set up a whole tree about entrepreneurs with a different ethnic background than the background that the majority of entrepreneurs still have today. On the contrary, I think it is very sensible that we treat everyone equally. I also think that everyone gets equal opportunities. I also indicated last year that I really don't like this investigation. I still don't like that. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 53 detachment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u386	The motion in part No. 53 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u387	I have made a very nice attempt with the last motion of this Minister's last budget. I thought maybe he's gonna do an investigation. Doesn't he want to do research because ethnic profiling doesn't happen on the entrepreneurial market? Or does he say, "I don't care about that, I don't care about that, I'm going to investigate other things?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u388	I don't like discrimination and ethnic profiling at all. That's completely counterproductive. It's not fair and it's not working. So I don't need any of it. I am convinced that entrepreneurs in the Netherlands are judged on their qualities. If you are a good entrepreneur and you have a good quality service or product, you will be judged on that and then you will get opportunities. I think most people are the same as I am. I like it when someone with a different background fights in it as an entrepreneur and works well. So I have a tendency to look at that in a more positive way. I think that is true of many. I therefore disagree with the background to the motion. I said the same thing last year and then advised against a similar motion. I want to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u389	I've been asking Parliament questions about this. Answers show that at a number of inspections people receive courses and trainings to avoid ethnic profiling. The government therefore acknowledges that this is done at a number of inspections. This is also the case with the inspection where the Minister himself has worked. There too, such courses and training courses are given to employees. It is therefore a fact that inspections and other bodies have ethnically profiled the entrepreneurial market. That is why I say, let's investigate it so that we can solve that problem together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u390	It's always a very difficult path. A policeman can see someone with a North African look, with a hood over his head, driving a black Audi A6 with an S-line version on his way to an ATM. Then one of these police officers might think: there might be something going on there, let me perform there now. Then you can say that such a policeman is profiling ethnically, but I think that such a policeman is doing what is necessary, namely in difficult circumstances in the interests of the community doing things that need to be done. I don't like the whole discussion about ethnic profiling. It is now being asked to take on board the suggestion of de facto discrimination in relation to entrepreneurs. I do not agree with that: not with the whole background and not with the wording of the motion. So I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-10.u391	We shall be voting on the motions next Tuesday. The vote on the amendments will take place during the week from 6 to 8 December. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answers. I would also like to thank those who helped him in what is likely to have been his last budgetary treatment. But we're not going to do it for sure, I'm just saying.
