ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we were told that in the eyes of the finish line after a year and a half of negotiations, the discussion last Monday was collapsed and broken, on one sentence. A sentence which apparently was agreed on, but which should not be written down. It is a sentence that should allow the municipalities, in distressing situations, to take care of those individuals in their municipalities who do not have to go to sleep under the bridge. It's like something happened this Saturday. One of my questions to this Secretary of State would be: after which consultation with whom has a 180 degree turn been made? It is here that the cabinet's drawing board is vengeful of the harsh reality that mayors and aldermen face every day. The people for whom they have a duty of care in their congregation, they want to do justice. It's like we're a year and a half back. In fact, it seems as if we are worse off, because for a year and a half we have had funding for bed-bath bread schemes. That is why I come to the following questions. Why did the Secretary of State still want to delete the one sentence on which there seemed to be agreement? Why is he now punishing the municipalities by stopping the temporary funding while there is still no deal? This was also included in the budget for security and justice. Is he prepared to continue the municipal bed-bath bread scheme until the final deal is there? There's got to be a deal someday, right? He can't make an all-inch with legislation, can he? Is the Secretary of State still willing to talk to the VNG again to solve that little point, that little sentence, of disagreement? This is where the parties have to get out of it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mr Voordewind's questions are based on a number of misconceptions. I don't blame him for seeing it pop up in the press. It's not like there was an agreement, that we thought "Monday we only have to eat pastries and party" and that I suddenly changed my mind on Saturday. You are in a path where you are quite far apart and you begin to work on the points on which you want to reach agreement. You grow towards each other, but in the end the question is: do you get the circle around, can we totally agree? Over the last few weeks I felt more and more that we were not negotiating texts to bridge a difference, but to camouflage a difference. The sentence would provide space so you don't have to let anyone occasionally sleep under the bridge. You run into someone in your congregation who you don't know exactly what his background is and where he ends up. You catch him first and then you see where he can best be caught. That was my interpretation of the sentence. But in many municipalities the interpretation of that sentence was that you still keep a provision open where you occasionally receive a few hundred people every day. Then you get next to the LVV (national provision of foreigners), on which we agreed, a parallel structure that undermines the effectiveness of the LVV. If I had signed, I should have sent an agreement to the Chamber that I don't actually believe in what it says. That seems even worse to me. You would have rightly grilled me here, because by now dozens of municipalities had said: agree or not, it just remains open. When yesterday morning there was a misconception in the press that there was an agreement, at 7:15 in the morning four municipalities said: agree, to my hula, it remains open as it was. This strengthens me in the belief that this agreement has rightly not been concluded. Unfortunately, Mr Voordewind is right. I have not been able to change the status quo because I have not been able to achieve an effective improvement together with the municipalities. It was agreed that funding would continue as long as we negotiated and reached an agreement. We're not reaching an agreement right now. That is why I think it is right that funding should be stopped. Temporarily responding to the funding no longer encourages a solution. It even seems to prevent that. That's why I'm stopping it. At the moment when the municipalities want to talk about opening new doors to the LVV, the return-oriented facility for executed, and are willing to close the other door to the alternative system of bed-bath-bath facilities, where the return is not central, we can talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	I thank the Secretary of State for telling his side of the story. He says there was no deal. The VNG says there was a deal on Friday. Only I wasn't allowed to write down that one sentence, says negotiator Jos Wienen. Who are we supposed to believe? The Secretary of State says that it was intended to take on occasional people and then refer them through, but I feared that the other municipalities might again abuse them. Why isn't he still willing to get out of here with the VNG? If you are afraid that it is being abused by municipalities, can you still include it in texts and make sure that that is clear to all municipalities? It is clear that there must be a policy of expulsion and that the municipalities must also be involved. The parties have to get out of here, don't they? The budget says that funding will continue until there is a deal with the UNG. I now notice that there is still no deal with the VNG. I encourage the Secretary of State to go through the funding, because it was primarily intended to compensate the municipalities for their extra costs as long as there is no so-called closed-down policy, as long as you ever manage to do so. I call for funding to go through. I'm gonna make a call to the Secretary of State to get you out of here. If we don't figure it out, we'll be back here in six months and we'll be in the middle of the campaign or with a outgoing cabinet. Then we won't be able to move forward before the court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	There hasn't been one near agreement at some point. If something is put on paper after the first consultation, it is called a draft agreement. I have seen over a dozen variants of draft agreements in the last year and a half. Of course, Mr Voordewind is right that it can be resolved in text. However, all the variants in which it was very sharp were not negotiable for the municipalities. That strengthens me in my idea, which is very much confirmed after not concluding the agreement, because in the course of yesterday and today many more municipalities have said: they could have written down anything, but the bed-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-b-b-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-bath-b-bath-bath-b-b-b-b-b-b-bath-b-b-b-bath-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b- I regret that, because I still think that the solution with the LVVs was better. However, it only works if there is no alternative parallel reception system. Municipalities don't have to make those costs, so I don't want to meet them. After all, municipalities can also choose to close what they now have in exchange for these new provisions, which are aimed at return and with which we can work together on a more effective policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	The Secretary of State has announced legislation. Next week we will deal with the security and justice budget. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to come up with the first directives of that legislation. This is, after all, the last budget that we are discussing with this Secretary of State. I ask him to send the contours or the first guidelines of such a bill to the Chamber by means of a letter so that we can talk about it next week. The point is that, at the time when the State Secretary comes up with his own legislation, the municipalities may be able to count on a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	I think Mr Voordewind will appreciate that I have not been secretly preparing legislation for a year and a half in the event of a failure. That's really not crystallized in a week. This is a complex issue of inter-administrative relations, in which I cannot easily identify one instrument. I don't think we're gonna be able to outline that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	I now give the floor to Mr Fritsma. Wait, I see Mrs. Gesthuizen was first. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think this can be explained to anyone anymore. I think this is politics with a very small p. The citizens, people who are here illegally and who have to work on their return or perhaps still hope for a new procedure, simply need clarity. The news has been published extensively throughout the last weekend. I just want the Secretary of State to clarify, during Question Time, what he thinks should be done at the moment with people who are now in our country, who have no status and cannot be deported à la minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	The people in category Mrs Gesthuizen is talking about are obliged to leave. They can therefore report to the vbl (freedom-limiting location) in Ter Apel for reception during the period in which they cooperate on their return. If they then fulfil their obligation to leave, they may voluntarily return to the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	Until now, this is a lousy discussion, because illegals, people who are out of proceedings, simply cannot be here anymore. Of course, you don't have to offer them shelter anymore. It is the cabinet's fault that this has happened for far too long. Far too many municipalities have received illegal immigrants and the cabinet has left that way for far too long. The cabinet is guilty that things have gotten so out of hand, that so many illegals are running around here and that they have all received shelter. Now is the time to really solve the problem. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to finally ensure that all illegal immigrants are arrested and deported. Insofar as expulsion is not yet possible, they must be secured so that they no longer walk the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	I listened with interest because I hoped that Mr Fritsma would come up with a suggestion for a solution within the framework of the rule of law. I'm afraid that didn't work out. I agree with him that deportees should return to their country of origin. Where forced return is possible, we do. Where it is not possible, we try to move the countries of origin to make it possible. Voluntary return is always possible. I am not allowed to put all the deportees in foreign detention until they are deported. That is why I want to create a shelter that puts return at the centre and leads to it, and so I want to move away from the shelter that is now in place, in which return is not central and in which false hope is awakened. I'm afraid that didn't work out. The coexistence of both systems seemed undesirable to me, and that is why no agreement has now been reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	On the question of bed-bath bread, the cabinet almost blew apart a year and a half ago. After that, negotiations were held for a year and a half. Last Friday there was a draft negotiating agreement and on Sunday this Secretary of State decided to pull the plug. How does he justify this for the sake of public order and security? After all, what was within reach would ensure that the expulsion of displaced asylum seekers would be better regulated and no one would be on the streets. How does this Secretary of State justify his move?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	What Mr Sjoerdsma is describing is precisely what was not available. I spent a year and a half working with municipalities to make that available. So that wasn't available. That's not why we did it. There have been draft agreements for a year and a half. And of course you work towards each other, and so the hardest point remains until the last moment. I had the idea that I could sign the agreement, but there was one sentence in which it was clear within four hours that I would explain him differently from the other side of the negotiating table. If I had signed this, I would have sent the Chamber something I didn't believe in and which was already clear on Monday that it was not sustainable. Municipalities were already lining up to report that they weren't going to let anything lie to them. With that, I would have presented the Chamber with a pacifier, and I should not have. If it had been within reach, as Mr Sjoerdsma suggests, I would have done it. I would like it to happen, but in order to be able to open the door to better return-oriented reception, the other door must be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	Second supplementary question, Mr Sjoerdsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	I didn't get an answer to my question. How does the Secretary of State sell it that it will become simply more unsafe in the Netherlands because of what he does? He lets the municipalities figure it out for themselves, shuts down the funding and is going to table a law for which I can tell him now that is not a majority in the Chamber. Secretary of State, don't let your officials work on that law, stop it right now before you even start.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	No, I think it is precisely my responsibility to avoid the situations outlined by Mr Sjoerdsma. That is why it is important to achieve this system of departure-oriented facilities. At the same time, there should not be anything left. I'd like to let those two things go hand in hand. As the negotiating table fails to close down the reception that undermines the policy, I hope, by this route, to achieve the other forms of reception that would be an improvement in the policy. This can still be done at any other, intermediate moment, but that means that the other system of reception must be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	It seems so reasonable. On the one hand, the Empire ensures that the municipalities are not saddled with the fringes of asylum policy, in order to prevent people from wandering the streets. On the other hand, the Empire expects the municipalities not to structurally maintain an emergency shelter with their own agenda and an attractive effect. Shouldn't you be able to find each other in that? You both have a fair story, don't you? Then why can't we get out after so much time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	Because that last part didn't work. I would have preferred it to have worked; I have not worked so long and so hard on it for nothing. It has not been possible to get municipalities to close down these self-employed facilities outside government policy. Even before the announcement of the fact that there was no agreement, many municipalities said that they wanted to keep their own shelter, in which no questions were asked and no return work was being done. I don't see how a LVV paid by the Empire, working on a return, goes together with a facility three doors down, which doesn't have to be. That's not gonna work, and then you don't have to sign this agreement. The much deeper why demand requires...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u21	Your second question, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u22	I support the Secretary of State's commitment to this. I think it is reasonable to ask the municipalities to do the same, but I find that there is little movement in it so far. What is the State Secretary's assessment of how it will proceed? Is there any willingness to go back to the table again, or is it really a race going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u23	Like I said, my willingness is there. That one door can open, but then the other door has to close. That's what it's all about. All these other things we've been discussing out-and-to-after in those one and a half years. Not both can survive, but there is that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u24	The CDA wonders whether this Secretary of State wants to find a solution, or whether this is rather part of a VVD campaign: strict on return and strict on care. That is why I am actually committed to it, and I shall be asking for a factual account of what is being exchanged between the various people who have sat at the table. What was the moment when the plug was pulled? For now, I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how many of the 5,000 cases, people who were brought to trial in 2015 and who left without knowing where, have now become obsolete, In April last year, Minister Koenders informed all of us that he had agreed with Mali, Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana that they would take back returning asylum seekers. How many of them have gone back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u25	I cannot reproduce those figures by heart in this Question Time. Let me try to convince Mrs Keijzer that it has nothing to do with party politics in such a way that I think it would be a bad campaign to work on an agreement on behalf of a two-and-a-half-year cabinet as responsible Secretary of State and that it will not succeed. I don't know since when it's an effective, tough campaign move to admit that something didn't work out. I've worked hard on that for a year and a half. Like I said, we've grown together on a lot of points. That is not the case at one crucial point. This is the crucial point in last year's cabinet letter from both parties: if one is opened, the other must close. So I didn't manage to do it within the coalition framework and the cabinet letter. Then all I can find out is that there was just no plug in. You might want to pull something out, but you won't be able to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u26	It is clear that the Labour Party finds this particularly disappointing, because we would have liked a joint reception facility for displaced asylum seekers where they could work on return in peace and with guidance. The Secretary of State is vulnerable: I hear him saying that he himself failed by ensuring that we have not reached an agreement. Which municipalities have already come forward because they feel the same disappointment because they have not succeeded? What's it gonna take to get back together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u27	Together, we have not managed to reach an agreement. Someone else may try this, but I don't think it's gonna work. I have seen disappointments since then, but more municipalities have said that they really do not care if there is an agreement. They kept their facilities open anyway. My willingness is there, when that one door closes to the existing facilities, to open that LVV's................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So that's not what it's gonna be about. So far we couldn't get it around and then you have to realize that there is no music in it anymore. You'll have to admit that honestly instead of stretching it without any further progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u28	As far as we are concerned, this discussion is not just about bed-bath bread. This is about an essential, fundamental thing, namely civilisation. It's a pity the Secretary of State didn't manage to do that. When I listen to the story of Mr Wienen, I notice that he is positive on Sunday afternoon. He also says that the Secretary of State is positive about this and that the Secretary of State subsequently withdrew. I wonder what happened at the time. I wonder who the Secretary of State was in contact with at the time and whether there were any other rulers involved. Has the coalition partner been involved? What exactly happened during that intervening period? Those are my specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Kuzu is now assuming periods that I cannot quite place. I have also understood Mr Wienen's expressions. If you work hard for a year and a half and then you can't do it, that's a disappointment. That it's gonna be sanding and rubbing and that everyone's gonna go loose, so to speak, I get it. What is said does not all correspond to my reading, but I choose not to go into it too deeply. I will only take that for a moment, but there is no question of me saying at one point that we had an agreement and then suddenly we didn't. Well, we're about to grow into a chord. During the last two weeks it has been mainly on the point that has just been discussed in detail. Mr Wienen has done a great deal to bridge the differences, but at some point I have also found in contacts with him and with others who have spoken before in the context of these negotiations on the mayor's side, that we were camouflaging something and not solving it, and that, if we were to put the signatures, it would become clear within a few hours that we actually thought quite differently, that we would interpret it differently and that we would want to fill it out differently. Then we would have stood here with a exploded agreement. That seemed to me to be the worst, also in relation to the Chamber and society. That's how it happened. I have had contacts on this and at some point I said: if we do not agree, I do not think we should pretend either; so we should not do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u30	The second supplementary question, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u31	The story of Mr Wienen and the story of the Secretary of State are divided. It is important to know exactly what happened in the intervening period, because I think it is essential to look at how this process has gone. So there was a draft agreement. The Secretary of State may have thought differently, but what exactly happened at the time? Who did the Secretary of State agree to and how did he feel about himself that this would not work anymore? I think that's essential. I would appreciate it if the Secretary of State had the courage to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u32	There is no "a" draft agreement. As I said, there are lyrics for a year and a half. There is no 'concept agreement' above that. These things do not work as Mr Kuzu now assumes. Can I indicate how in those two weeks I went through that process in myself, the knot then, and how it went? How'd that go in myself? I don't need to subject myself to psychiatric or psychological research in that area. I just don't think that if you don't really get out, you shouldn't pretend either. That's very unfortunate after a year and a half of work. I think that Mr Wienen's account and my account of the facts are not so far apart. I have seen that he speculates on a number of points and has thoughts on them. I'll leave it to him. I don't recognize it, but I don't really feel like "nacatting" about it right now. Unfortunately, it didn't work out. I'd rather have an agreement, but that's got to be a real deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u33	The Secretary of State says that he has worked on this for a year and a half, but we will soon be able to see in Mrs Keijzer's report how many times have actually been discussed. I have two more questions. The first question is about government policy. What is the reason why people end up on the streets and why municipalities have said they're picking this up? That is why asylum policy is not conclusive, because there are people who can't go back. There are people who have even been back and then are returned. What has the Cabinet done to ensure that this policy is final?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u34	That is why we have tried not to be able to return the twilight zone between them, which is merely seen as forced return, the category that can be returned if one does so voluntarily and the whole group between them, which is now often kept here and which also gives the impression that this is possible and that reception is being provided, so that voluntary return does not start, to replace it with a better, professional and joint reception facility at eight different locations, where return is central. That was the great step forward that we could have made if there had been the willingness to close that alternative shelter. I'm afraid that didn't work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mrs Voortman, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u36	The Secretary of State is well aware that this has to do with other countries, as Mrs Keijzer has already mentioned. He couldn't even report even though countries are now working on return. You can find all kinds of things about the shelter that municipalities now have, but it is more effective in return than the efforts of the cabinet. Why is it so important for the cabinet to close the shelter that municipalities have realized together with civil society organisations? Surely it is much better to look together at how to proceed with what municipalities are doing now rather than pulling it out of the hands of the municipalities and civil society organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mrs Voortman also gives the impression that if the country of origin does not cooperate with forced return, people who have been forced to leave will not actually have to go back. I think that's a really bad thing. It's rather weedy that a shelter where people go because it demands less is more effective than where they didn't go. I understand that, but that proves that it's undermining. We could have made the battle to find each other in a return-oriented facility. I also see a greater understanding of this in municipalities. They are already saying about certain categories of people from safe countries whose influx is huge: they really should not end up in such a shelter. It just didn't succeed in creating that new one to replace the old one. Then it's gonna be very difficult. Then you get a diffuse system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u38	I think it has been a wise decision by the Secretary of State in the light of yesterday morning's news. It seemed that an agreement would be reached. Several municipalities indicated: "We don't care, we just keep on catching illegals. They do not have to cooperate on departure, because shelter is offered from the state. All they have to do is cooperate on their own. We all don't care. We will take care of them." In that light, I ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to stop funding. However, there are aldermen in the country, as in Smallingerland, who say: then we do it through the Wmo funds. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that all the state funds that are not intended for this purpose will be stopped? Is he also prepared to draw up the law on enforcement as soon as possible and send it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u39	The Wmo is not my area of expertise, but in my opinion it is money that is specifically intended for a particular target group. I can only discuss this with my colleague. WMO funds, for example for homeless care, are not intended to be used more widely. I will have to discuss this, because that is not my area of expertise. I've already told you about the law on enforcement. We're working on that right now. We're working on that as fast as we can. But it's not a simple law. That is all I can say about this.
