ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mrs Ypma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Rog. They are supported by Mrs Koster, CDA policy officer, Mr Stuij of the GVO Services Centre and HVO Group, representing religious education and humanistic education, Mr Mentink, Professor of Education Law, and Mr Haans, Policy Officer of the PvdA Group, who will be replaced later in the evening by Mr De Vries of the Kampen University of Theology. I would also like to welcome again the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Tonight, the first-term response of the initiators will be discussed. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is an honour to stand here and to be able to defend this bill together with Mr Rog and Mr Voordewind. On behalf of Mr Rog and Mr Voordewind, I would like to thank the Chamber warmly for the thorough attention it has given to our legislative proposal. In particular, we thank those Members who have already promised to support our legislative proposal in their first term. We will be happy to answer all the questions. I do this by first saying something about the lessons themselves, fundamental rights, the history and Articles 50 and 51 of the Primary Education Act. Mr Rog will talk about funding. Mr Voordewind will address staff and the difference between professional and group teachers. First of all, I would like to say something about the lessons themselves, about the children and the teachers we all do it for. This morning I was back at my kids' school. To prepare for the debate here tonight, I joined the class of humanist education in the fifth and sixth grade. The subject of the lesson was: on the way to the Christmas party. Miss Monique Schreuder had a conversation with the children about the origins of the Christmas party. She told a beautiful story: "Everyone used to be scared around these months, because it's getting darker, the days are getting shorter and the nights are getting longer. They were afraid the world would get darker and darker. They were very happy when the weather got lighter. That's what they were celebrating at a big party. They celebrated the turn of the light by lighting fire with each other and eating the meat that fortunately they didn't have to store anymore. That's where the good food and the lights come from on Christmas and that's where the Christmas trees come from, because they also celebrated that the trees became green again and not dark." After the story, the teacher was curious about what all the kids are doing for Christmas. That's why they did "a round of ball." I brought the ball. The children were allowed to speak when they had the ball in their hands and tell what they were doing at Christmas and what they were thinking. They were allowed to repeat and finish the sentence "When I think of Christmas, I think of..." "Together," said Emiran. "To happiness," said Ronne. "To the beautiful lights," said Yasmin. "To my family," said Eva. "To a feast," "To love one another," "To peace," "To a Christmas dinner," "To a Christmas tree," so the children talked about their experience of the feast. Everyone celebrates in their own way. "Who doesn't celebrate at home at all?', Asked the teacher. Five of the 11 children raised their finger. Miss Monique said Christmas for many people is also a party where you think about what's important to you and who's important to you. That's why the kids got a leaf with a Christmas tree with balls on it. At the balls there were all questions, such as "What did I like the past year?', "What would I really like to change?" And "Who would I like to do something nice for Christmas?" That's what the kids were gonna talk about. It's just a small impression of one lesson, at one school, but Emiran, Jasmin, Eva, Ronne and all the other kids obviously liked the lesson very much. They wanted to talk about these and other questions, because children have a lot of questions about how the world works; how it is that people live, what happens when people die, why people are all so different and how people have to deal with each other. They obviously liked to talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u3	Did all the class kids take that class this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u4	Yes, all children at my children's school have been able to choose between humanistic education (hvo) or religious education (gvo). That is the case in many schools. All children have followed their parents' choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u5	Have all the children taken the same lesson or have they split up in groups and followed different lessons from different philosophical directions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u6	Mrs Straus can hear me very well: they are two choices. It is a fundamental right of parents to choose where their child is going. In two groups they have considered what Christmas is and what it means to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u7	We're gonna do the interruptions in two tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u8	But they weren't together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u9	I'm so glad Mrs. Straus understands. Every time I look at how many children at a younger age already know and how much they can think about. Child wisdom, so pure, so beautiful! I have, like perhaps a number of colleagues, visited different classes of hvo and gvo. You always see the children enjoying when they are in the circle, with the teacher or the master who tells stories. Nice stories about special people. The teachers ask a lot of questions, which the children themselves are allowed to answer, in words that package their opinions. Those opinions may change, with respect for the opinion of other children. The children themselves see it as some kind of treasure chest with valuable lessons. They are treasures which they do not keep to themselves, but which they share with the other children. When something happens in their lives that is nice or sad, they open their treasure chests and remember the lessons they received. As proposers, we consider it important that children should be allowed to define their own direction and their own vision in a philosophical sense. The connection between the living world at home and at school promotes the development of the child and is important for the development of a moral compass in the child. The lessons help children to develop their own view of life and their own identity, to have an eye for what your belief in life can mean to yourself and what you can mean to other people, and to have respect for people who are different in life than you. We have received broad support from education. Twenty organizations support us, such as AOb, CNV, Parents & Education, Verus, VOC/ABB, the Peace Movement Pax and the Central Jewish Consultation. There were twenty statements of support from civil society organisations supporting this bill. Seventy-five thousand children are reached every year via HVO and GVO, but there are threats of redundancies if we do not do something about the funding, hence this bill. To Members who have expressed reservations or reservations, I would like to show that this bill fits perfectly into the Dutch education system and can even be regarded as the final piece of freedom of education, as a fundamental social right. "Public education is governed by law, while respecting everyone's religion or beliefs," says Article 23 (3) of our Constitution. With Articles 50 and 51 of the Primary Education Act, the legislator has ensured that this can be implemented actively and multiformly in school time, while respecting the freedom of religion and belief, as stated in Article 6 of our Constitution. Article 26 (2) and (3) of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights also states that education will aim at the full development of human personality and at strengthening respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Parents have the right to choose the kind of education and education that will be given to their children. Article 14 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has also been accepted by our country as a binding right, is working out this way: every child has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion and freedom to express it. The government respects the rights and obligations of parents and guardians to assist the child in the exercise of this right in a manner appropriate to his or her age and development. GVO and HVO support parents with children in public education because the public school itself is not equipped and entitled to do so. This is only possible if, as in the case of other education, the public authorities provide the financial resources for this. After all, freedom of education is not only a right of freedom, but also a fundamental social right and a duty of care for the public authorities. This duty of care has been increasingly recognised and honoured by the government over the last ten years. From 2006 onwards, a large majority of the House of Representatives made sure that the GVO and the HVO could make a professionalisation battle and that a workable organisational structure could be designed. This was necessary because the Law on Occupations in Education, the Law BIO, was also applicable to the vocational teachers GVO and HVO. Professionalisation has been taken seriously and a workable organisational structure has been designed. With an amendment to the OCW budget for 2009, which was adopted by a large majority, this Chamber then ensured that lessons GVO and HVO were now financed through a ceiling subsidy of EUR 10 million. The Dutch parliament specifically asked the government to take care of a structural form of government payment from 2010. To date, this wish of the Chamber has not been met. In the summer of 2013, there was a close-up charge. This Chamber then, with the support of all but one political group, prevented the subsidy from being reduced. The consideration in the motion in question was that GVO and HVO should give substance to the core value of public education. That core value had to be maintained, and that is why we took this initiative to achieve the structural funding already sought in 2010. I therefore appeal to all the political groups that voted in 2013 to maintain the funding, to support the consequence of the policy they wanted at the time. Mr Straus, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Beertema made critical comments on the system of Articles 50 and 51 of the Law on Primary Education as such: the optional GVO and HVO during school hours. That goes far beyond the scope of our legislative proposal. We just want to ensure better the existing legal system. Anyone who wants to change the system as such will have to submit a legislative proposal for that. The same applies to Mrs Straus' suggestion that classes should be given outside school hours. We see this as a fundamental violation of the right of parents which has been enshrined in our education laws for almost two centuries. Mr Bishop was right to point out that this also calls into question public funding. Mr Van Dijk explained in the first term that humanistic education was well in line with the principles of the SP. The course has been developed. Many teachers have been trained and he has shown himself to be in favour of introducing humanist philosophy not as an optional subject but as a compulsory subject in public school and in the long term being part of the core objectives. He asked us if we agree. If the answer to 'yes' is 'yes', Mr Van Dijk asked himself, is the proposed law a step in the right direction or is it a step in the right direction? We would like to point out that we must not forget that humanism is a philosophy of life alongside the other, and not the basis of public school. There, according to Article 23 of the Constitution, everyone's religion or belief should be respected. We also share Mr Van Dijk's wish that more attention should be paid to the importance of conscious consideration of life for all pupils in public schools. Everyone needs a compass for life. It helps to meet the world with confidence, but that goal is not brought any closer as hvo and gvo languish because of lack of money. Well, it's more to the contrary to be expected. The authors certainly consider it worthwhile to examine whether such a box could be given a place in the core objectives. The bill is certainly not a stand-in-the-way for this possible development. The bill aims to preserve the lessons of GVO and HVO in public education. Gvo and hvo offer all the substantive elements that Mr Van Dijk considers so important. The bill also allows for enlargement. One step on the road, then, as far as we're concerned. The extensive expertise of the service centre can be made widely available if required. If Mr Van Dijk thinks it is important to maintain and promote the humanist education he praises, he should certainly support our bill, otherwise it will be lost. Mr Van Dijk said that it does not simply lead to mutual understanding if one group of pupils is taken separately. After all, you learn more about the other one with the other. He therefore asks us how often this situation occurs, in which education is the most important and how we judge it. The answer to this is that we have 2,300 schools with public primary education. Half of them, 1,150 schools, offer GVO or HVO or both. At 575 schools there is a choice. So you can opt for religious education or humanistic education. At 575 schools only one form is offered. In 75% of cases, the whole class is reached. Not in 25% of the cases. Please note that we are also talking about schools where, for example, children are not allowed to go to either because of their faith, for example Jehovah's witnesses. This often involves one or two children. By the way, the schools themselves do not find this to be a problem. There is good coordination with the group teachers. If Mr Van Dijk sees this as a problem, it can be solved by supporting the legislative proposal. This will allow more professional teachers to be trained so that the whole class can be offered a choice. Now there are simply not enough teachers to offer multiple opportunities in schools. In addition, the cooperation teachers can also provide an integrative programme or a final integrative programme, which we believe is in line with what Mr Van Dijk would like to see. This will do him good, we assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u10	I was left a little confused after Mrs Straus' "see you" moment and also because of the questions that Mr Van Dijk asked earlier. Can Mrs Ypma confirm that the children in all these schools, in addition to these GVO and HVO lessons, also get the core goal 38 beliefs, where they come into contact with all the religious movements that are relevant in the Netherlands and where they learn about each other together? That's not gonna go away in these schools, is it? That's just gonna stand up, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u11	Absolutely, I can confirm that with complete conviction. Key objective 38, the students learn key issues about spiritual movements that play an important role in the Dutch multicultural society and they learn to deal respectfully with differences and views of people, certainly remains standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u12	That's very reassuring that it's gonna stand. Let me say first of all that I have done so in the first term too, and that I appreciate every teacher who gives this course and the inspiration behind it. However, I understood Mrs Straus' question very well. It is therefore the case in 25% of schools that the classes are separated and that groups are formed. Part of the class goes away from the classroom and gets education from a reverend, for example. Can Mrs Ypma confirm this, and is this the ideal situation for the proposers, or would the proposer have preferred all children to receive that education, like those 75%?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u13	Of course, we'd like to achieve that. One of the reasons is that there is a demand for humanistic education, but there is no teacher available. I have seen with my own children that there was no teacher. We simply have too few teachers. Why is that? We would like to offer these teachers a perspective. Someone has a whole education, he does that very seriously, but it's not really certain if his job still exists the following year, or again after that. It is financed through a subsidy which can be cancelled annually. In 2013, we saw that this subsidy could have been cancelled. In order to give more teachers the assurance that their jobs will still exist in a number of years, we believe that it is essential to establish a legal basis for funding. If we do that, we will provide the teachers with more certainty and we will also ensure that teachers' salaries can be increased with price and wage indexing, which is not the case at the moment. After all, there has been a ceiling of 10 million for years, while costs have increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u14	I think that aspect of the proposers' proposal is very strong. My group will have to make a decision. I think there are real advantages to it, but I'm also questioning it. Those are the 25% question marks. I don't think Mrs. Ypma really went into that. In the beginning she did say that she agreed with me that ideally all children follow the same GVO or HVO. If that's right, is she willing to think with me to stimulate that, instead of taking kids out of a classroom? Mrs Straus pointed that out. In my view, this does not really contribute to integration. Does Mrs. Ypma share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u15	We're talking about one hour a week. So all the other hours the class is together, but for this one hour a week there is that choice. This is a fundamental right that parents can use, and according to the law we must make it possible. In it, a connection can be made between the philosophy of home and the philosophy of life at school. We would like to stress that we also want to make development possible with this legislative proposal. We see that parents would like the whole class to have these lessons at school. In fact, they would like the whole class to have both GVO and HVO. We see very good examples of this. In Zwartsluis, for example, they started the pilot "Hello World," in which the whole class gets gvo and hvo. Miss Hennie and Miss Liesbeth give it to me together. The theme is also "together." The group teachers are present. There is a good line. Every student takes all the lessons. We think that is a very good initiative. In order to further develop this, there is also a need to do something about the professionalisation of teachers. You have to be able to offer the schools something. There must always be teachers available who can give this. That's where it's sticking now. That also has to do with funding. Because costs are constantly rising, but the budget is not rising, the number of jobs needs to be cut, while further development requires a little extra budget and fat on the bones. We think this is a positive development, but this pilot has now been put on hold because it simply cannot be financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u16	I have already stated in the first period that we too recognise the added value of such a scheme. I now turn to the case with which Mrs Ypma opened. It's humanistic education. The class is being split up. They're talking about Christmas. I heard a lot of things that do seem to be part of Christmas, but from my perspective they all shave along the essence of Christmas. I would like to have a debate on this, but not in this context. I do not want to judge the value of this either, but is that the very nature of such an arrangement of GVO and HVO? Does Mrs Ypma believe that such a curriculum is sufficient? I'm referring purely to the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u17	That's a nice question from the SGP spokesperson. It's a wonderful question. This was an example of humanistic education. What I didn't tell you is that this teacher also told the Christmas story as it says in the Bible. But I liked to keep it humanistic for a while, which I'm sure Mr Bishop understands. The nice thing about this is that a teacher in public education is not allowed to interpret. He has to teach neutrally. That's what the law says, because in public school everyone is welcome and everyone should feel welcome. The lecturer HVO or GVO can make their own translation, giving you a floor based on the personal belief for the person who teaches these lessons. I'm not going to ask you to defend why the PvdA is such an extremely important party. I'm not going to ask your children if they want to join the Young Socialists in the PvdA. I can tell them that much better than you, Mr Bishop, with all due respect. And I think you'd better tell me why the SGP is such a great party. That's the way it is with HVO and GVO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u18	With Mrs. Ypma saying this, there are all kinds of images from my past. I was a history teacher and once in a discussion with a class I chose a particular position. Afterwards, when I waved them off, a few students asked me: sir, you're not really left, are you? In other words, it is possible. I could make a glowing plea for the preservation of the PvdA, but I won't do that right now. This is what I'm talking about. Is Mrs Ypma's approach to the content of the curriculum such that it also addresses everyone's beliefs and the essence of another's views, or is it specifically streamlined in humanistic education and religious education? How do the proposers view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u19	The vision and mission of the service centre is to be human with each other. The service centre has established a joint mission and a joint curriculum for the lessons. Respect is always one of them. The organisations also inspire each other on the annual day they meet. We think it is an added value of the service centre that all these different views of life are brought together, that we are aware of each other's ideas and that we have agreed on a joint mission. This is definitely in the curriculum. I can reassure Mr Bishop: when I was a social teacher myself, I was also in the classroom, and I was also able to make a very glowing speech for, for example, the introduction of the death penalty. I think it is the strength of teachers to let children think occasionally, to let that light burn above the head of a child and confuse it, but then to help it get back on the road. I think that Mr Bishop has enjoyed this as much as I have. Mr Van Dijk asked whether there should also be humanist education in special schools. Our reaction is that schools of special education can decide for themselves whether or not they want to include choices in their curriculum in terms of GVO and HVO, and whether or not that suits them. It would be contrary to the freedom of education if the government entered into it. In any case, Mr Van Dijk's question, however understandable, goes far beyond the present legislative proposal. We know from the service centre that it is very motivated under the legislative proposal to reach all children in public education and that some experiments with new forms have already begun. I just mentioned one. Of course, this is done in accordance with the legal frameworks. Unfortunately, it is currently more limited by the subsidy budget. Mr Van Dijk asked: in 2013 the cabinet did not want to finance the GVO and the HVO anymore, does the cabinet now support the bill? As far as we are concerned, it would be a sporting response from the Secretary of State if the Cabinet were to support this bill, all the more so since the Cabinet has so far failed to comply with the wish of the Chamber in 2008 to achieve the objective of structural funding from 2010. The cabinet has ignored that wish. Mrs Vermue asked what contribution philosophically and religious education makes to binding citizenship. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the close cooperation of the various religions and beliefs in the Services Centre GVO and HVO. This also works as an example for the different professional teachers. The joint substantive sector days lead to an increasing number of collaborations between the professional teachers in a school. Unity in diversity! The joint mission of the partnership is also aimed at making a strong contribution to a peaceful democratic society. The service centre is currently examining whether, in addition to the current offer to parents and the school, an inter-living programme can also be offered by the sector. This could contribute even more strongly to binding citizenship. It may then become possible to give this education to all pupils. I believe that this also meets a wish expressed by Mr Van Dijk. However, it is a condition that parents give permission, because it concerns spiritual education and the desire of a minister for the entire class that Mr Van Dijk spoke, will not be appreciated by all parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u20	Mrs Ypma talks about the inter-living approach. I shall come back to my original criticism of this bill. I got an e-mail from a director of an education foundation. It says that we have been investing a great deal in general religious education for many years now, and that we are doing exactly what Mrs Ypma calls it in key objective 38. Almost every kid in that school group participated in that. They have a great deal of criticism of the way in which it should now be offered, because it is being sold. So the children do not enjoy education with each other, but rather separately, and all with their own accent in it. Will Mrs Ypma explain again why she believes this contributes to the neutrality of public education and to the core objective 38? I believe that this will be adversely affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u21	I just explained that. For public education, according to law, the teacher should not give his own interpretation, but should be neutral because all children should be welcome in public education. In core target 38, attention is paid to all religions, but purely on a knowledge-based basis. HVO and GVO are about the questions of life, about developing your own moral compass. That's a private translation and a floor from the belief of the person in front of the class. It can convey to the children how important a belief in life is to someone personally. Mrs. Straus just has to go through it to see how beautiful that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u22	I also have children in public education and I am very glad that they do not have it there, that they have it in general form. I want my children to learn, above all, why other people are in it than they are, and that makes them think about who they are. As a parent of a child in a public school, therefore, I do not need to separate the child from the group again and, as it were, to separate it from the philosophy of life. If I wanted to, I would have gone to a special school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u23	This is beautiful! This is the fundamental right of Mr Straus as a mother to say what she wants and does not want. I also have a solution for Mr Straus. Agreed to this wonderful bill! Then her vision is possible and can be realized. I have just indicated this in the direction of Mr Van Dijk. In many schools, parents are satisfied with the way it is now arranged. But in some schools, parents also share Mrs Straus's vision. They then have the right to ask for that complete offer, as at the school I just set the example of. That's where the mr took the initiative and informed all the parents. There has also been a sounding board group, composed of parents. They think and watch along with the lessons throughout the pilot. You can see that the teachers and the HVO and GVO teachers work together intensively and that the teachers further deepen the themes in their own lessons. Through this collaboration the students get even better acquainted with the world around them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u24	Looks like Mr Van Dijk is taking over now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u25	Yes, because the President is very strict about the fact that only two interruptions are allowed. That is very good, but I would like to ask Mrs Ypma, perhaps at another time, to respond to Mrs Straus's example of the I.K.O.S. Foundation. Westland. I don't know if Mrs. Ypma heard of that. I find it strange that this foundation wanted to teach general religious education, but that from 2010 the Empire requires that religious and philosophical education be offered. Does Mrs. Ypma know this? Is this what the Prophets intend?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u26	No, this is not what the proposers intend. I don't think it's right either, but I'd love to look at it in a minute. Finally, Mr Bertema was concerned that the special education of the public schools would be at risk. I can reassure him, even though he's not here. The GVO was a special part of public education much earlier than the equal treatment of public and special education in 1917. So it didn't prevent the school struggle, because many Christian parents wanted more than that one hour. Now parents have a free choice. It should also be noted that humanists have never used the freedom to establish special primary schools. They are therefore entirely dependent on the HVO at the public school. Our proposal is therefore wholeheartedly supported by all organisations of special education. With your permission, Mr Rog will now take over for me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u27	I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Ypma. I give the floor to Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u28	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for their first-term input. I shall now turn to a number of aspects relating to funding. It has already been stated that according to Article 50 of the Primary Education Act there is a fundamental legal right for parents to rely on to ensure that their child can receive religious education or humanistic education within school hours. The scope of our legislative proposal does not really change this right, but is intended to provide legal certainty and continuity to parents and teachers, so that an existing situation, built up over the course of ten years, is given a firmer legal guarantee. As Mrs Ypma pointed out, the application of the law BIO for teachers giving GVO or HVO has not only led to a professionalisation battle, but also to additional costs. Before that time, GVO and HVO were given by volunteers and semi-professional teachers. This was financed by municipal grants or by voluntary payments. This was a reason for MEP Jan Jacob van Dijk to table an amendment. That amendment was adopted in 2008 and agreed on the need for structural funding for CSR and CSR. In this way, the principle of national payment was recognized. Thus, the post has been on the national budget for several years, but the funding starts with the current ceiling of 10 million. This brings me to Mr Bertema's question, which is not here at the moment, but which I am serving briefly. He asked what problem this proposal solves. Well, the subsidy ceiling leads to a qualitative and quantitative phasing-out scenario. As costs increase, the supply of lessons will have to be reduced. Eventually, GVO or HVO could disappear in public schools. This was therefore contrary to Article 50 of the WPO, under which parents have the legal right to have their children follow this form of education. A further problem is that if the current amount of 10 million per year is not adjusted, this will lead to legal inequality and uncertainty for the labour market position of teachers, of teachers of GVO/HVO, in relation to other teachers, I say to Mr Van Dijk. Public education would lose one of its fundamental old rights. As a result, public care obligations for the general accessibility of public education would also be undermined. This indicates the urgency of better guaranteeing the financing of GVO/HVO. That is what we are doing with this bill, by providing a legal basis for structural funding at AMvB, with an index for maximum volume growth of 2% per year and a wage and price adjustment for the costs of teachers. Anchoring structural funding in the law leads to a qualitative and quantitative build-up scenario, enabling this core value of public education to be fulfilled and not to undermine parents' legal rights. I shall deal with a number of practical questions raised by Members. Mr Bishop asked how the necessary price and wage indications would be guaranteed in this sector. That is an important point. Last year, the State Secretary indexed the subsidy amount with a minimal amount. This was not enough, for example, to pay the full wage increase agreed in the primary education collective agreement. The initiators do not think it can be explained that teachers are not entitled to this collective agreement increase, whereas other teachers are entitled to this increase. It is therefore our intention to regulate price and wage indications in the AMvB referred to in the initiative proposal, on an equal footing with the rest of the education system, taking into account the fact that, by the way, GVO and HVO have no costs for the educational building, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u29	At the same time, this brings me to the other question: why is this regulated in an AMvB and not laid down, anchored, in this law, in order to achieve a better guarantee of this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u30	We are doing so because we have earmarked 10 million for the lion's share of the funding we need at the moment. We do not know how the decline in education will relate to the increase in volume. Mr Bishop has made a number of proposals on this point. We would not want to confiscate funds which we do not know are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u31	However, this legislative proposal could include a provision for wage indexation to follow collective agreements, or do I know exactly how to regulate this further? It's about legally anchoring the claims to it. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u32	We therefore propose that these claims should indeed be recorded in the AMvB. We choose to do so because we cannot determine in advance how much the need is. We take into account volume growth, but we do not know how it works. That's a choice we make. Mr Bishop has studied the bill. Honesty commands that this is a fairly bald bill. We want to establish the guarantee with each other and have regulated structural funding. The implementation of this can be done within an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u33	I'd like to go through with Mr. Rog. He says there might be a volume growth. Mr Bishop has tabled an interesting amendment in which he says that we need to communicate more clearly. That might bring with it an even greater volume pressure, but it also means that there should be coverage for this bill. Is there one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u34	I think I've gone into that. I said that cover is for the most part in the 10 million euros. For the rest, we have a number of contradictory developments. On the one hand, there is shrinking and, on the other hand, this bill may have an exhausting effect. That would please a large part of the Chamber, but we do not know how it will work out. We have indicated as proposers, also in the explanatory statement, that our estimate is that maximum growth will be very limited. We also note that we want to limit this growth to a maximum of 2% annual volume growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u35	Okay, but is there coverage for that up to 2% volume growth? You just said that you want to anchor a number of legal points for the staff of hvo/gvo. This means that all kinds of legal responsibilities arise from this. How do you intend to justify that financially?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u36	Now I think Mrs Straus is going to confuse two things. We have an amount, and we keep it. We do want that indexing, that guarantee, but we do not know where we end up. That's not something I can get out front right now. We have a fundamental right of parents, but we have for too long in a subsidy scheme, which can be re-established annually, offered uncertainty to the people who offer this education. That's what we want to make sure. I say to Mrs Straus that this may entail a very limited additional financial need, but we do not know. We want to guarantee that fundamental right, so that parents can make those claims and then we're going to fill it out at AMvB. I repeat that this amounts to an additional 5 million over the next ten years, if there were to be such growth in volume and indexing, and not a decrease. That's the answer. Not more than 2% growth per year. Mr Bishop proposed that information on the possibility of HVO and GVO be included in the school guide. The proposers think that is a good suggestion. We believe that this can also be dealt with in the AMvB, but we are also in favour of the idea of regulating it by amendment. This would also satisfy Mr Amhaouch's wish to further strengthen communication. Given the broad support in the field in both the Christian profile organisations and the public education organisations, it may also be advisable for the State Secretary to include these organisations, i.e. the PO Council, VOC/ABB, CVO, VOO, Parents & Education. The inventory of parents' wishes for GVO/HVO does not yet take place in all public schools. This can be better guaranteed. Mr Bruins pointed out the objections to a possible ceiling for financing. We agree with him that such a ceiling cannot stand in the way of the rights of parents who want GVO and HVO for their child. After all, with the adoption of Jan Jacob van Dijk's amendment in 2008, with the desire to end up with structural funding, the principle of national benefit for this type of education has been recognised. A ceiling therefore serves only to control the costs of unforeseen strong growth in demand for GVO/HVO. We have recorded this in the explanatory statement, as I have just emphasised. I've already answered a number of questions. Within this initiative legislative proposal, a number of options appear as possible other buttons to turn on when the funding ceiling would be reached. The first is to increase classes for gvo/hvo, to prevent additional teachers from being appointed if that money is not available. This must, of course, take account of the smaller religious movements, as the authors stress, so that GVO remains possible for this purpose. At present, the minimum number of pupils required to take advantage of this form of education is seven. That too is a button that could be turned on. Without compromising quality, the classes can be increased, with the exception of those for the smaller religious movements. It is also possible to reduce the maximum learning years in which GVO/HVO is given. A measure that has already been included in our legislative proposal and which has also been questioned is to reduce the number of hours per year from 120 to 40. Mr Bruins asked a question about this. Since time immemorial, only one hour a week is taught per year of study per direction. That is also what we want to lay down in this bill. If an open regulation were to be put in place which would remain in the law for 120 hours, where possible, it could have far-reaching consequences for the state budget, and that seems undesirable to us. So we're actually going to approach it the other way around. Where you now have the security of 0 hours structurally, we go to a statutory deposit of 40 hours. With all these measures, the initiators intend to avoid, if necessary, that any unforeseen growth in the number of children following GVO/HVO will lead to a much higher cost in the budget. This was the part that was on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u37	Thank you very much and give the floor to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u38	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the first-term questions they have put. It is nice to conclude now with the skills of the teachers involved. I myself know a number of teachers who teach in public education and know that they are very motivated to practice their profession, despite the uncertainty they had every year, at least so far, whether they would still have a job next year and despite the legal uncertainty as to whether their salary would increase with colleagues in public schools. They are very motivated and very excited to give their lessons and also to see the positive reactions of the children. The lessons help children to develop their own perspective on life and identity. Formative education, as has already been said by fellow petitioners, is really going to deepen core objective 38, which is about the spiritual movements. I would have said to Mr Beertema that he would have been present at this debate tonight because the parents themselves must actively indicate whether they want this education for their children. There is a lot of support for parents, 50% of parents in public education ask for this. Even so, I say to Mr Bishop, now that there is relatively little known about it. In the meantime 600 lecturers are involved every day and we know that there are about 75,000 children involved in public education. That's one third of the total supply in primary education. Then specifically the Members' questions. Mr Straus asked who is actually responsible and therefore accountable for the skills of the teachers on hvo and gvo. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the GVO and HVO Services Centre must ensure compliance with the Occupations Act in education and the requirement of competence. These people have an HBO course and a note didactics. When it comes to a pabo diploma, it is a supplement to the subject in question, such as religious education, humanistic education, etc.; thus the same requirements as all other vocational teachers in primary education. This has been the case since 2004. The Law on Occupations in Education made this mandatory by means of the Kraneveld amendment. Members Straus and Beertema also asked about the difference between the lessons GVO/HVO and the attention to spiritual movements as described in core goal 38. The difference is that in the first situation of the implementation of core objective 38 factual information is given on all philosophical and religious movements. In gvo/hvo there really is a floor. It is informative on the one hand and on the other hand you have to deal with specialist teachers who pass on that information from their own beliefs. On the one hand, the core target 38 is limited in size, but GVO/HVO is one hour per week. Core target 38 requires attention to be paid to the different goals, but does not prescribe exactly how many hours they are. It only prescribes which topics should be addressed in which groups. This is really a floor blow, it's one o'clock a week, which the parents can choose. I heard Mr Van Dijk say: the minister, the chaplain or the rabbi would give the lesson. I really need to adjust that image, because that was the case a long time ago. Since the Law on Occupations in Education, competence requirements have been laid down for the teachers of GVO/HVO who also apply to the group teachers who specialise in this field. The quality of education is then guaranteed just as much as respect for the Dutch legal order in this education; polarisation and radicalisation are avoided. Mr Bruins asked how the continuing training of the teachers took place. Employers have made this mandatory as from 2012, in cooperation with the service centre. There is now an annual amount in the budget for continuing training, and this must actually be spent on it. The aim is even to increase the number of professors at master's level. So it has all the attention of the service centre. Mr Bruins also asked about the skills requirements and the conditions for funding. Article 51 of the WPO states: "The competent authority shall ensure that such education is given only by a teacher who, according to a declaration by the designating authority, satisfies the requirements of competence and also maintains those requirements." These are therefore educational competences, pedagogical and didactic skills, and because of the separation of Church and State, the government is reluctant about the content of the lessons, as well as in particular education. However, the content of the lesson must not run counter to the Dutch legal order. This brings us to the end of the answer to Members' questions, hoping that this will also cover all the questions that had to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u39	Thank you very much. I would like to tell you that Mr Bertema has apologized for illness; it rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u40	Mr. Chairman. Before giving advice, I would also like to express my appreciation for the efforts of the initiators. I would like to briefly reflect on the views and opinions of the cabinet. I actually want to do two things. First of all, I would like to comment on the history of religious and humanistic education. I will then go into the financing of this bill. I will also answer the questions put by Mr Bishop, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Van Dijk. Finally, I will respond briefly to the amendments tabled by Mrs Straus and Mr Bishop. It has already been said by several Members of Parliament that in public education there has traditionally been the possibility of religious and philosophical education. Until 2009, these classes were often subsidised by municipalities and church institutions. When these subsidies fell, the Court pointed out the need to create an appropriate organisational structure. A consequence of this was the creation of the Services Centre GVO and HVO. This centre receives a grant of up to EUR 10 million per year. In 2013 I proposed to stop this subsidy. I indicated that parents who wanted their child to receive education on a philosophical basis can be used in particular education. That's so unique about our education. There was no support for that in the Chamber. We continued the subsidy. The need for a possibility for religious and philosophical education in public education is demonstrated by the fact that one hour of religious or philosophical education is provided every week in about 1,250 schools. However, I still believe that children can go to special schools for education on a philosophical basis. Suppose they are in a public school, then children can also receive this type of education by another way, for example through a church way such as catechisation, or through a humanist organization. That is why I am not in favour of a legal anchoring of the government's funding. I prefer to spend the money on improving the quality of education. Now my main objection is precisely to the financing of this initiative proposal. The proposers expect the demand for religious or humanistic education to grow. They expect an increase in costs from EUR 10 million to EUR 15 million in 2025. However, they do not indicate what the financial coverage is. I believe that a legislative proposal should have a clear financial record and cover. If the Chamber has no cover, the result is that the money has to be sought elsewhere within the budget of OCW. Members know what the OCW budget is made up of. This consists in particular of funding for the regular financing of education and training. The lumpsum. So it has to come from there. What is complicated, moreover, is that this would not be in line with the motion recently adopted by the Chamber, which states that we must avoid paying for education as much as possible. This bill cannot therefore count on a positive opinion from the cabinet. I would add that the cabinet will look at the funding rules if the initiative proposal does not provide financial coverage but is adopted. The cabinet will then consider what you can do in these funding rules to ensure that it does not exceed EUR 10 million already available annually. I also have to say that I do not think that this has just been done in the debate and in the input of the proposers. On the one hand, it is said that the legislative proposal is designed to address this subsidy ceiling, so that it can be indexed annually and so that annual growth can be met. If the question is then asked how it fits within 10 million, it is said: there are also all kinds of trends that point the other way and that event does. If that were the case, it wouldn't be hard right now. In other words, if you assume an open-ended arrangement, I really think you should be clear about that. There is also a lack of clarity in this respect with regard to the proposed amendment. The letter of amendment states that a subsidy ceiling is one of the things that could be included in the detailed funding rules. I'd just like to see proper cover for the bill. I come to the answer to the questions put to me. Mr Bishop and Mr Amhaouch asked me to actively draw attention to education itself or through other parties. That sounds very sympathetic, but I do not feel like it for two reasons. Firstly, there is no financial room for growth in the current budget. I have not yet heard from the initiators how that should be paid. Secondly, the question is whether it is a role for the government to explicitly promote religious education. I am not in favour of that. Mr Van Dijk asked about the position of the cabinet. I think it's clear by now. In the amendment to item No. 13 of the VVD is proposed to have GVO and HVO taken care of outside the regular school hours. That could be a choice. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. Finally, the amendment to item No. 14 of the SGP. It obliges the competent authority of public schools to include in the school guide the possibility of receiving religious or humanistic education. I do not recommend this amendment because there is no financial room for growth, as I indicated earlier. Moreover, I do not want to impose this additional obligation on the competent authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u41	It puzzles me that the Secretary of State is talking about "successful cover." Article 50 of the Primary Education Act expressly states that, if the parents of the pupils wish their children to receive religious education or religious education, the competent authority is already obliged to cooperate. Does this form of education stop at the moment when we run out of 10 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u42	Yeah, right now, the scheme is really focused on 10 million. Over $10 million, it stops. The law gives that right to parents, but the same law does not require the government to finance it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u43	I don't think that reasoning is right. It is a right of parents to ask for this form of education for their children. In my view, therefore, it is a duty of the Cabinet to seek proper cover if this type of education is requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u44	The current practice in the past has always been that there is 10 million in the budget for this scheme. I have proposed that this arrangement should cease. The Chamber has said that it would like to maintain and honour the arrangement. I'm gonna stick to that. But when we run out of $10 million, we're out of space. We've always worked that way. I also heard the initiators say that was the reason to submit this bill. I understand. If you really turn it into an open-ended system, which gives indexation and puts an annual growth rate of 2% on it, then it is more money. But with a bill, the money isn't there yet. That's my big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u45	It is good that the Secretary of State is keen on accounting, but it is also about content. If the proposers were to provide adequate coverage, how does the Secretary of State look at the content of the proposal? Would that change his advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u46	No. In that sense, I would be more lenient about it, because we would not be burdened with a financial problem. However, the more fundamental question remains whether you think that the government should also be financially involved in financing religious education in a system in which it is also regulated through special education and equalising its funding through the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u47	At the same time, I see a lot of parents asking for it. The government is paid again by the taxpayers and those parents are the taxpayers. If parents ask for it, the government should still want it, I would like to give it another encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u48	On the one hand, that is true, of course, but not all parents ask for it, while all parents are taxpayers. So I could also take advantage of the principle of profit. If you want this as a parent, you can. Then organize it yourself. You can also say: pay it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u49	I also think funding is very important, but I find the substantive position of the cabinet even more interesting. So, if I understand correctly, the cabinet says: we are not in favour of GVO/HVO, but if you want to, go to a special school. Then why has the Secretary of State not made a proposal in his term to abolish that article of the law to which Mrs Vermue refers Article 50 of the WPO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u50	Because that bill gives parents a right to ask for it, but does not include a duty for the government to finance it. That was also the reason why, at the time, in the operation in which we had to look for room in funding, we indicated ourselves: let's see if we can put it to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u51	Isn't it a very hollow piece of law? The Secretary of State's explanation is: well, well, we might have to offer it, but we don't have to pay for it. Then it's an empty article, isn't it? Does the Secretary of State share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u52	It's not an empty article. You can take another critical look at it. Suppose you put it all the way to zero, would the article still be necessary? I do, however, make a fundamental distinction that a right of parents to ask for religious education, and therefore the duty of a school to provide room for that, does not mean that there is also a duty for the government to fully finance it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u53	This brings the Secretary of State to the end of his speech. I would like to thank him very much. It's gotten very late. A number of Members have indicated that they will no longer be able to take part in the debate. I understand we can do the second term before Christmas. I would like to ask the Chamber if it agrees. I see everyone looking at me nicely. I would like to thank everyone very much and propose that, if there are no objections from the Chamber, the second term of this debate should be scheduled for a later date, but at least for the Christmas holidays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u54	Can we just suspend for a second? Then we can discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u55	Well, no, it's really up to the Chamber to decide. My proposal is to keep the second term for Christmas this year. I understand that there are opportunities for this to be dealt with on a technical basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u56	I don't have a problem with just moving on. I've been counting on it to be a late night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u57	If the President really offers that the bill will be dealt with before Christmas, I can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u58	I can agree to that, too. I do appreciate having a little back-up here and there and taking care of the second term before Christmas. Christmas, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u59	Yeah, Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u60	I can also agree with the proposal. I also find it so generous to those colleagues who have to leave because otherwise they simply won't come home. It would be nice if they could be there next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u61	I realize that the proposers have prepared themselves very well to complete everything this evening, but if the majority of the House still prefers to deal with it before Christmas and if the Minister can give a firm commitment, then I can only agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-47.u62	I would like to thank Mrs Ypma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Rog for their input this evening and for their reply. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State, all the participants in the debate and all the people who have been watching from the public gallery and from home. I wish everyone a safe journey home.
