ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u1	Mr. Chairman. I suspect that tomorrow morning the newspapers will not open with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u2	That's entirely up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u3	I will do my best to ensure that this is not the case! Nevertheless, I would like to say that this is actually an important moment, because it is the last time in this cabinet period that I will be allowed to debate the issue of Kingdom relations from box K. I will indicate how I have arranged my answer, but before I do, I would like to say that I will start with and be inspired by a question from Mr Fritsma, namely: how do you think it is going? I still have a need to start with a helicopter look at where we are and where we stand. Then I will deal with the political situation, the questions of the divisions and changes in the political classification, the evaluation of the Spies Committee and the final picture of the Kingdom. My third topic is poverty and poverty reduction. The fourth block will be formed by the various refineries and transhipment companies, both on Curaçao, Aruba and Statia. The fifth theme is corruption, gambling, crime and all kinds of other misery. I will then go through individual questions in the order of the speakers, as far as they are not included in those themes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u4	And all before 5:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u5	The Chamber itself has control of whether all this can be done before 5.15 p.m. It won't be me. I'm gonna start with the helicopter can and I'm gonna start with the question of where we stand now. However, I have a need to give a slightly more positive picture than the listeners at home might have left for the first term of the Chamber. We are about to talk about all things that are not going well, that need improvement or that may not be going well for a very long time. However, in recognition and recognition of the people who are all working hard on it and because it is a reality, we can also see that a number of things have gone very well in recent years. I'll pick out a few. I believe that the future of the Kingdom stands or falls with at least the position of the largest Caribbean country in the Kingdom, Curaçao, and the extent to which it participates in the Kingdom in a constructive and serious way. That didn't matter so much a few years ago. We've given you a clue. The budget was out of balance and there was a lot of unrest. I note that the government has recently served a full and stable period up to and including the elections and that we have had good relations between the largest Caribbean country in the Kingdom and, for example, the Netherlands, but in any case within the Kingdom. The budget has also been put in order. In fact, out of the four countries in the Kingdom, there is only one with a budget that is fully balanced, and that is Curaçao. Compliments to the finance minister there, José Jardim. It is sad for him that he and his party were not appreciated in the elections. That is why I would like to say it again in this place. There are great concerns about Saint Martin and then in particular about the extent to which the underworld touches the upper world. We've had regular discussions about it here. On the positive side, however, I have to say that the governor who is sitting there, who has just been re-appointed for six years, has screened very carefully in the last formation who was eligible to sit in the cabinet. That was also exactly the conclusion that came out of the investigation. So he really did a lot with that. We are about to go into the Caribbean Netherlands, because there is still a lot to be done. However, all the evaluations show that education has improved enormously in recent years. Credits for Marja Van Bijsterveldt, former Minister of OCW, who has done a lot to build good schools on Bonaire. When you get there, you think, "I'd like to do my kid at that school." It's a really good school that meets all the standards that should be there. We work well with the island board. Multiannual plans have been drawn up. I believe that Mr Bishop had asked a question about a delta plan for the Caribbean Netherlands. We have drawn up a multi-annual plan with the public bodies of the Caribbean Netherlands and are working hard on it. It continues to seek a balance between recognizing and giving space to democratically elected local government on the one hand and the responsibility here in politics The Hague on the other. You can see that different spokesmen have a slightly different accent. The evaluation carried out by the Spies Committee also shows that we are on the right track there on our own. Perhaps after this positive introduction I can make a bridge to the stately classification and the reactions to the various contributions to that point. In conclusion, I would like to stress that, of course, we are far from where we need to be, but neither are we in the European part of the Netherlands. There's still a lot of work to be done, but there's a lot going on too. We have to count those blessings. After this constructive introduction, I will go straight to the complex discussion about the current system. The CDA, D66, Labour Party, Christian Union, SGP and PVV spokesperson provided input with very different accents. First of all, let me stress that, over the last five years, we have made a great deal of progress in relation to the situation before that. The three countries in the Kingdom of Curaçao, St.Maarten and Aruba are no longer receiving budget support and, in domestic terms, they are holding up their own pants. Curaçao has managed to balance the budget. A lot has changed in relation to the dependence that existed before. Financial supervision has taken place in all four countries. The Netherlands is under the financial supervision of the European Union, Aruba of the CAft (Mr Aruba financial supervision) and Sint-Maarten and Curaçao of the Cft (College financial supervision). That monitoring appears to have an effect. We have discussed the role of guarantee on a regular basis, to which I shall return on specific issues. The Caribbean Netherlands has been part of the Netherlands in the last five years. Initially the emphasis was very much on the fact that it was part of the Netherlands like all other parts of the Netherlands. It was then very quickly concluded that there was reason for legislative restraint and that there was too much administrative pressure, because all the departments did their very best, with the best of intentions, to organise things for the people on those islands. I have already concluded in an interim evaluation that the local directors and the people there had far too many Hagenaars to visit, so we have already brought that back. As a result of the evaluation carried out by the Spies Committee, we have reduced this even further, for example by strengthening the role of the National Representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u6	Most islands aren't doing so well. The Minister will have to admit that. Saba's fine. We have been visiting Saba as the House of Representatives and have also consulted the directors there. In fact, for a few years now, we have come to the conclusion that Saba is getting more and more in order and could do more and more tasks herself. I keep hearing from the leaders of Saba: we agree with you, politicians, but then we deal with civil servants and then, in Dutch, everything is too short and narrow again. Can the Minister indicate what specific tasks will be transferred to Saba's administration in the near future, because it has been shown that this is likely to be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u7	I was just browsing. I'll come back to the question, but I can do it right now. I agree; I made that commitment. Here was always the example of the fishing licence: should Saba return to The Hague for each fishing licence? Further consultations have shown that there was no real problem with this in practice. My attitude remains: if things are going well and they can arrange it themselves, let us not play it unnecessarily through the band in The Hague. But I am still in agreement with the island council to look for examples where it can actually be done. I'm very much in favour of it, also from my coordinating responsibility, and I also recognize the logic. However, it is a question of departmental responsibilities, so in the end the Minister responsible for the portfolio must also consider it justified to place such a power there. However, I will enter it where I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u8	A good example is, of course, the work permits. I am particularly concerned, however, that the Minister and I agree on this. The Minister and the Chamber also agree on this, but there are officials in these ministries who say: yes, but I do not think it is possible for these reasons or those reasons. It's never gonna happen that way. I've seen the Minister consult with Saba. He said, "Maybe we can expand the free space or something." But the agreement with the Chamber was that we are going to look very concretely at what tasks can be better done by the island at the moment, in the near future or in a few years' time. Is the Minister prepared to hold that meeting with Saba? Is he willing to just go over that list? Is he willing to see where that responsibility might best lie?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u9	Yeah, I'm willing to. I would add the following. Let us not refer to officials when Mr Van Raak or other members of the Chamber encounter issues on which they say: too little is happening in this area. I suggest they ask me that question. Then I'll make sure there's an answer. This could, for example, be done in writing. Let me go through the various questions connected with this subject of the stately situation. Several Members raised the subject. Mr Bosman asked if we could loosen the connection. He talked about the decolonization that he did not see as complete. We've talked about this before. According to the United Nations Charter, a former colonialist cannot say to a former colony: we are pulling your hands off us. So there's an asymmetry in that. Indeed, some members of the Chamber point to that asymmetry. I can see Mr Fritsma jumping up to the interrupting microphone right now. That asymmetry is there. It's the result of history. I have heard Mr Bosman say that the only country in the Kingdom that does not have the right to self-determination is the Netherlands, because the Netherlands cannot say: we are leaving things at bay. Any other country in the Kingdom can do what previously for example Suriname has done. Those countries can say: we are detaching ourselves from the Kingdom. That is the right of self-determination that a former colony has. However, the Netherlands holds the responsibility, from the point of view of history. So there's a certain asymmetry in that. If in a country in the Kingdom there is the persistent and clear desire to seek a greater distance within the Kingdom, and that desire is borne by the people, for example, elections or referendums, then the Netherlands will not and cannot stop it. Whether it's wise is, of course, verse two. I think there are good reasons for doing the tasks we are doing together. Anyway, that's another debate. So before that, the procedural observation is simply that it is not up to the Netherlands to say: we have thought about it again and we are putting you at a greater distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u10	This is indeed a terrible pain point for the PVV. The Dutch people are caught in a situation which they probably do not want at all. We're stuck on those islands forever. The Dutch people have no control whatsoever as to whether they want to get rid of it. We represent the Dutch people here, but we really can't do anything in this area, because we can't do anything and we are indeed stuck with the UN Charter. Isn't that antidemocratic? The Minister must be able to see that this can no longer be done and that this needs to be corrected. The Dutch people must be given a say in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u11	Suppose there were Martians landing here and they would see the map of the world; I have said this before. Suppose they were thinking, how are we gonna put that in handy? Then, of course, they would never invent again to create one Kingdom with six islands in the Caribbean and European Netherlands, a country called Louis Napoleon "a slub of French rivers." And those islands are also divided into Windward Islands and Downwind Islands, with public bodies and so on. You'd never make that up again. This is the product of history. Of course you can say that the current Dutch citizens did not think of putting it together in this way. Honestly, the people who live on the islands are largely descendants of people who didn't think they wanted to go to Statia either. That is the product of history, including the black page of slavery and colonialism, which makes not only the Kingdom of the Netherlands but also several other countries complex. In that situation, I think we should all try to improve the lives of people within the Kingdom. We must note that history has brought us to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u12	Of course, we do not have to accept that. It is bizarre to leave future generations here in the Netherlands tied to those islands, even if they do not want to. It can't be. That's antidemocratic. It's also untenable. How long will the Netherlands have to pay the price for the fact that we have ever sailed there? How many generations should that take? How many blank checks should that take? The Minister himself said in previous debates that it should not last forever. Of course not! It would be really weird to pour this into concrete. And you can get rid of the UN Charter. You can set up a modification procedure. The PVV wants to leave the UN completely. This wasn't cast into concrete. Does the Minister recognise that this needs to be loosened, in the sense that the Dutch people finally have something to say? The inhabitants of this country do deserve a voice. It can't be remembered for generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u13	First of all, there are some assumptions in this question, namely that we would give blank cheques.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u14	Well, it was actually quite an argument, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u15	Yes, it was an impressive speech. I expressly do not accept a number of assumptions. As I said in my introduction, the time has passed for budget support from the Netherlands to the countries of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. One has to do one's own business, also to ensure that things are financially in order. We do a number of things together, for example the postal network, the foreign affairs. For a country with less than 100,000 inhabitants it is difficult to do so independently. The same goes for an army, for defence. There are a number of Kingdom responsibilities that I think it is very useful that they are there. There are a number of areas where the Netherlands can add something, for example in the field of crime prevention, justice and so on. There are also areas in which one has to do one's own business within the country and where, as long as the human rights situation is not too extreme or good governance is not lost, we leave responsibility where it lies under Article 43 (1) of the Statute, namely with the countries themselves. The argument landed in the question: how long will that take? Mr Fritsma is right to say that it is a fact for me that the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom continue to appreciate this connection within the Kingdom. I don't want to pretend I don't want to. I think it's wise, too, but that's verse two. You might think differently about that, but that's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u16	Why, in the eyes of the Minister, does the citizen of this country, of the Netherlands, have no right of control in this matter? Why shouldn't he or she choose to break ties to those islands if he or she wants to? We represent the Dutch people here, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u17	The State of the Netherlands consists of four countries, as the Federal Republic also consists of several Länder. That is the state of affairs in which we find ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u18	It is presented as a fulfilled fact, but if the Minister himself says that this does not have to last forever, can he also admit that a start has to be made to change this? Now nothing changes for hundreds of years. We can't accept that, can we? Surely the Minister has to admit that the people of this country do not have to accept that? Give that space! Give me that control! That's democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u19	That quote is, I believe, also a little out of context. When I look back now, I notice that the state bond is evolving. It has done so over the past few decades. I don't expect it to be exactly the same as it is now in 50 years' time, but that's different from what I'm saying now: this has had its longest time. The Netherlands consists of a European part and a Caribbean part with three public bodies. The government has no intention of making that constellation an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u20	First, I'd like to take away an inaccuracies. The comparison with Germany does not apply, because we are not a federation. It is also not the State of the Netherlands that includes all countries. That is the Kingdom and the Kingdom consists of the Netherlands and three other countries. The State of the Netherlands is thus different from the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u21	Germany is not a kingdom either. That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u22	What is important is Article 73, because that requires the former coloniser to guide the countries to full independence. I have indicated in my speech that we have reached half. The Statute does not give the countries full independence. So the question is when is that actually going to happen? We have to choose. Are we covered by Article 73 and should we therefore give substance to that article in order to achieve full independence or are we not covered by that article and are we free to do what we want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u23	The pace at which changes are being made and also the question of whether they are being made at all is primarily up to the countries there. I can well imagine that there is a steady situation in which people continue to appreciate not having their own army and in which the army of the Kingdom of the Netherlands also has a defensive role in other countries of the Kingdom. This also applies to foreign affairs posts and any other tasks. I can imagine that. I don't think this is part of a colonial past either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u24	Now I don't get it. Are we now covered by Rule 73, yes or no? It's as simple as that. If we are included and we have an obligation to do so under Article 73 of the UN Charter, Chapter 11, then we need to implement this. Then it is not without obligation and we cannot tell the islands that they should see what they are doing. No, then there is an active responsibility to achieve full independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u25	That is so, but within that independence one can of course opt for a stately connection, in which the King of the Kingdom of the Netherlands is also the King of Curaçao and in which foreign affairs is done by the organization as we know it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u26	I am very glad that the Minister embraces the commonwealth. He has been a little more critical of this in the past and I am glad that he is now drawing this towards him. It is a very simple yes-no question: are we covered by Article 73 of the UN Charter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u27	I already said yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u28	But that automatically means that there is an active duty to achieve full self-government and full self-determination of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin and, more importantly, of Bonaire and Saint Eustatius. That's an active obligation. We can't say we'll see how those islands are doing. Then we'll have to talk, and we'll have to set a timeline to get somewhere. It can't be that this minister says we can sit back and see what happens. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We must therefore work actively to achieve full self-determination and independence of the countries. Then they can still decide whether they want a commonwealth or not. I think that's a very good plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u29	I don't see any contradiction. We have this self-determination. It follows from the Charter of the United Nations. I do not have the impression in all my contacts with the government of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin that they wish to leave the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the basis of the right of self-determination. On the contrary. They want to stay in there. You can then have a debate on what exactly are the responsibilities that are and are not regulated at the Kingdom level, but that there is a state-of-the-art link is not contrary to Article 73 of the United Nations Charter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u30	So we are not decolonised, because the islands are not independent. That's the point. They haven't been able to choose the file they're in from an independent position. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u31	That's not a contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u32	No, but there's got to be an active part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u33	One at a time, because it is an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u34	There must be an obligation of the Netherlands. We are covered by Article 73, as the Minister himself says. So we're not decolonized. We have an obligation to achieve full self-government of the countries. That's an obligation, an assignment. There's got to be one. We can't say the countries don't want to. That is a choice when they are completely independent. They can then choose whether they remain independent or join any stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u35	Then we disagree. You can say: Suriname, that is now really decolonized in the terms of Mr Bosman. That wouldn't be my choice. I do not think so, but it is up to one to judge for oneself that the country has now improved. I believe that the situation in which Curaçao, the largest country in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, is located, is better and preferable. I have no reason to think that people want to get rid of that either. If referendums, elections and majorities in the states show that the people of Curaçao disagree, then there could be a moment when one, two or infinitely many steps are taken to choose a great distance from the Kingdom. I am not advocating that, no misunderstanding, but that right of self-determination is guaranteed, and that is not contrary to the Charter of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u36	I see Mr Bosman nodding, but he still has a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u37	In 1954 we got a statute. That is clearly what Mr Bosman is talking about in order to guide former colonies to independence. That's the goal. That is why the Statute is so oppressive at the moment, because countries do not want to be independent. We have a responsibility for good governance, for human rights and other matters, but we do not really have any way of enforcing that. Does the Minister agree with me that the current statute, which is intended as a temporary transitional measure from former colonies to independence, does not fit if these countries do not, and never really, wish to become independent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u38	God lives in the details or... the value is in the details. The choice of words made by the countries...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u39	The devil is in the details.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u40	Those too, there's a lot of life out there. They are autonomous countries, not independent countries. That choice of words is also attached to it. This means that we have many responsibilities at the national level, that we have the right to self-determination and that, if we decide in the longer term to establish a looser state, we will find recognition in the Kingdom. But that choice is not being made at the moment. The Netherlands, for its part, therefore also complies with the obligations arising therefrom. I would like to point out that the impression is given as if nothing changes and the ties have not become looser. Of course they are. In a few years we have created a whole new constellation in which the countries themselves keep their own pants. We also have debates in which, and perhaps we come to a few items on the agenda in which Members of Parliament say: you must intervene, Minister of the Netherlands. Then I say: no, wait a minute, this is a matter of country; this must be resolved in one's own country. Of course, we have Article 36 of the Statute. That says the countries are helping each other. On this basis, therefore, we can always join forces, but rather recently we have moved towards a looser relationship in which the autonomy of the countries prevails.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u41	Yeah, where we're still responsible. That's where the problem is. According to the current Statute, which was not amended in 2010, we are still responsible for good governance. There are few ways to make that happen. That is precisely why the tires are cramping within the Kingdom. We have a responsibility that we cannot live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u42	Excuse me, Mr President, I already wanted to respond twice when I heard something I thought was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u43	Enthusiasm can't hurt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u44	The Statute does not say that the Kingdom is responsible, it says in Article 43 (1) that the countries themselves are responsible for good governance, democracy and human rights. However, it also states in paragraph 2 of Article 43 of the Statute that the Kingdom guarantees this. That's something other than being responsible for it. If you're responsible, you have to have it under control all day. "Surveillance" means leaving it to the countries in principle, and then only in debates it is completed if there is no national address, as lawyers like to call it. Then it may be that the Kingdom must enter into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u45	I know all that. I sometimes read that Statute; it hangs over my bed. The point is that we have a kingdom that is aimed at the independence of colonies, that we now have countries that have been in Aruba since 10-10-10, but Curaçao and Saint Martin since 10-10, say 'we are autonomous countries within the Kingdom', but that we have not clarified the responsibilities within the Kingdom, because we are still working with the old Statute. 99 of the 100 problems we have with Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten relate to this. If we do not change that Statute, if we do not clarify those responsibilities, that will always be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u46	I do not deny that there is a regular discussion of where the border between Article 43 (1) and (2) is, therefore, where the responsibility of the countries passes into the guarantee function that lies with the Kingdom. In the past, instructions have been given by the National Council of Ministers because something had to be done in the framework of that guarantee function. Sometimes they're disputed and sometimes they're not. So I am not denying that there is a debate on this, but the only way to settle that debate is to let go of each other completely. I do not think that would be good for the lives of people in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. I wouldn't recommend it, but people have the right to self-determination. If one chooses to do so, of course, one can always do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u47	There is that responsibility. In fact, the European Court of Human Rights has raised this issue. There is an active obligation of the Netherlands to guarantee human rights, including in Aruba and Curaçao, the Murray versus The Netherlands case. This is an active obligation of the European Court of Human Rights. At the moment when there are human rights violations in prison, the Bon Futuro, there is no reference to Curaçao, but then it comes to the Binnenhof in The Hague. So there is an active responsibility here. That's the hybrid system. We are addressed to a system in which we cannot intervene. That is the problem with the Statute. We are working on a hybrid system of ruling in a kingdom where no one is in charge. We're halfway through decolonization now. How are we going to ensure that these islands are actually responsible and that if there are human rights violations in Aruba, then it is Oranjestad and not The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u48	Mr Bosman is right to say that safeguarding human rights is the responsibility of the Kingdom. There is a difference in perception because in international traffic, in the event of a perceived human rights violation, the State, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, is addressed. Then, within the Kingdom, we say to the country in question: wait a moment, my friend, the prison is not in order. Putting the human rights situation in a prison in order is a national task, so you will do something. Those two things are both true. Internationally, the Kingdom is called upon as a state body for any violation of human rights, but in order to resolve it, the country is in the first instance really at a standstill. Only if that fails dramatically, if there is no national address possible, can there be an indication based on Article 43 (2) and can there be further escalated to an intervention from The Hague, but that is not the starting situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u49	This is not in line with the European Court of Human Rights. That says much more clearly: you have an obligation to take active care of both Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, in order to guarantee human rights. It's a proactive obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u50	I don't dispute that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u51	Then we have a problem, don't we? We are addressed in the Netherlands to responsibilities. Then it is not so that we ask whether Aruba, Curaçao or Saint Martin can please do something. No, we are called upon by the European Court of Human Rights to intervene. We must then actively go to that prison and ensure that these things improve, while it is a matter of country. We are in a system of tight ties, the Statute. We are hybridising, where no one is in charge and where no one has perseverance, especially when there are moments where there is an obligation to do so directly. I see the Minister shaking no, but I'm very curious how he explains Murray versus The Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u52	As soon as a verdict is made and the Kingdom of the Netherlands is addressed at a human rights violation in Leeuwarden or in Curaçao, action is taken immediately. You can do that in Leeuwarden. Then the council is addressed: you will do it now immediately. If it is in Curaçao, let us limit it for this debate, but to that end, the National Council of Ministers says to the government of Curaçao: as the Kingdom of the Netherlands, as a state, we have been addressed to a human rights violation and it is your country's responsibility to do something about it. Behind that, of course, is an escalation ladder. If that were not done, the guarantee function would be called into question and an indication could be given. If it's not followed, you can escalate even further. But that's the order in which it happens. There's no battle between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u53	First of all, I find the comparison between a city in the Netherlands and Curaçao unwise, because we have control. The government, the Dutch government, has control. If anything goes wrong in a prison, the Minister of Justice will be accountable here very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u54	But there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u55	No. Then I advise the Minister to read Murray versus the Netherlands again. It doesn't say that they're asking the country to take care of it. No, there's an obligation to proactively make sure the case is settled. That is an obligation assigned to The Hague. It's not like you can say: gosh, just wait and ask Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin if they want to do it. It is not a guarantee; it is an obligation to proactively regulate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u56	There's still a contradiction being sought here that's not there. If the Kingdom of the Netherlands is called upon to violate human rights in one of the four countries of the Kingdom, for example in a Caribbean country of the Kingdom, then a measure must be taken proactively and immediately by the National Council of Ministers. It may be that the minister who is responsible or the government of the country concerned is saying: you will act on this now, and if you do not want to do so, you will realize that there may be a possibility of giving a clue or escalating it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u57	Well, I'd like that to be specific. In Murray versus the Netherlands it was about the lack of a TBs-possibility. So I assume that the government, the National Council of Ministers, has now imposed an obligation that allows tbs on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u58	I'm not gonna respond to that individual case right now. It was taken as an example and in that sense I ruled on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u59	No, it's not a case; it's an obligation. The European Court of Human Rights gave that ruling. The Minister says here: then there will be a ruling and then we will settle it. In this case, the point was that there was no TBs for the person in prison. If the Minister says 'we are going to take that up immediately' and if the European Court of Human Rights's mission is to act proactively, then I expect the National Council of Ministers to indicate that Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin have the possibility of TBs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u60	I am not going to go into that process right now, because this is clear. The State, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, has been addressed to something that is a national responsibility, so the country must take it up. I am not going to discuss this one statement in the debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u61	You have a second term, Mr Bosman. Then you can come back to this. I've had you interrupted seven times. You may return to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u62	I was still working on my second block of five. Then I will come to the individual answer. So I'm gonna try to speed things up. I said about Mr Bishop's delta plan: that is the multiannual plan that we have developed together in the Caribbean Netherlands and that we have every year during the Caribbean Netherlands week and that we are trying to implement as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u63	Just before the short-term report: Mr Bishop has another obligation, but he will ensure that he can take the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u64	I'm sure of it. Then there is Mr Van Raak's question: where does the bill end up when countries fall financially through the ice? That is the responsibility of the countries. It is not so that it can be said "suck through the ice" or "suck through', and that we then pick up the bill from the Netherlands. We have just discussed the decolonisation obligation in detail. Mr Amhaouch asked about the direction of BZK, precisely in terms of organising cohesion in the Caribbean Netherlands. I have already said in my introduction that it was indeed true that at first after 10-10-10 the emphasis was very much placed on that departmental responsibility. The idea was: those public bodies are really a piece of the Netherlands and they are therefore covered by the minister of VWS, the Minister of OCW and you name them all. I think it is historically and psychologically understandable that the emphasis has been placed on this, but it led to far too many officials from all those departments flying there. As a result, the situation arose that, for example, the Reich Representative was not always aware of the matters that someone there was going to do with the mandate of his or her minister. After all, it was said: yes, that is the ministerial responsibility of my minister, so what is your concern? We reorganized it. We now have the State representative in a position within the Dutch Caribbean Office that he should always be aware of what someone comes to do on behalf of his or her minister in the Caribbean Netherlands. In this way he is really in the direction and can be prevented from working alongside each other or from building policies on each other. As a result, we have been able to streamline the whole process, but it remains a challenge. I will try to promote as much streamlining as possible in the coming years. I assume my successors will do the same. I also hear these complaints from local drivers on a small island. They say that they are still getting a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u65	The Minister says it has been delegated to the National Representative to absorb everything that comes from the Netherlands, but the question is what role the Minister of Kingdom Relations himself takes. He himself has an important responsibility to streamline ministers and departments in the Netherlands. There's still a lot going on. That's what we've been getting signals about. Millions go to those islands, but without priorities and without coordination. That can't be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u66	That's a good question. The National Representative has been appointed by me to perform that function. He's reporting to me, too. He has good contact with me and with other people at the Ministry. He's the one on the ground who's implementing that coordinating role. If he were to report to me and say that a colleague in the cabinet would withdraw from the direction that we aspire to in the Dutch Caribbean Office, I would immediately call the bell in the cabinet, Mr Amhaouch could be assured of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u67	We are indeed seeing this new role of the National Representative. As far as we are concerned, it may be even stronger, given the sounds we hear. It's gonna snap if it goes wrong. On Saba and Bonaire things are going well, but on Saint Eustatius things are going wrong. When we were there two years ago, the question was whether we should not be able to escalate. It's not escalating, and it's not getting any better, I understand. The question is whether the State representative has sufficient powers to fulfil his responsibility when it comes to good governance on the islands. If there is too little room for this, what do we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u68	Yeah, hold on, I think we saw a place at St. Eustatius a year ago. We said at some point that local government was temporarily unable to fulfil those functions. I made a comparison with Dutch municipalities where this happens a few times. We've temporarily entered local authority to get this place back on track. Fortunately, a few months later, we found that the weather was sufficient to place the responsibility where it belongs, namely with the administration of the island itself. There has indeed been an escalation in the past period. I hope we do not have to do that often, but the administration on Statia was not strong and still needs attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u69	Yes, that attention is indeed needed, but perhaps something more is needed than attention. We do not have the impression that Statia is much better now than it was a year ago. Maybe they are not derailing financially, but there is no administrative power, progress or constructive action yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u70	One sometimes becomes despondent, but despondency is always a bad guide. We must ensure, in good cooperation, that we do the right thing there and, as far as it is a local competence, that we fill it in locally. I share Mr Van Laar's observation that things are not always going well and that it needs a lot of attention. I'm gonna keep going on the matter of governance. A proposal for a national law has been drawn up for the settlement of disputes. That was given in internet consultation. It has also been submitted to the countries for input, but it is very limited. I aim to deal with this in the National Council of Ministers in the short term and to send it to the Chamber, as discussed earlier in the Chamber. Then, of course, a treatment can follow. Mr Bishop, who is listening, has asked whether the College of Financial Supervision can do the job well. The answer to that question is affirmative. On this occasion, I would like to express my thanks for the great role played by the CFT, also in the incarnation of the College of Aruba Financial Supervision in Aruba, with a slightly different composition, to ensure that everyone has and keeps their finances in order. That's what I'm going through. It's all about political relations. With permission, I would like to move on to the next topic. Many have spoken about it, including Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van Laar, Mr Pechtold and Mr Van Raak, but I really shouldn't mention names. Maybe I should introduce the subject in a few sentences after all. We were just talking about the question of what the hell we're doing out there on those islands. A number of people are certainly critical of that. I think we are doing a useful job there. From the government's point of view, the ultimate goal is to improve people's lives there. One could say that the aim is to have a better life in these tropical paradise, because those are the potential, of course, where there is now a lot of poverty, crime and corruption. In that sense, everything we do is actually poverty reduction. So let's not create a contradiction. We've just seen the havoc in Haiti that comes when the houses aren't in order and there's gonna be a hurricane. If we are to ensure that social housing there is improved, this also has to do with the fight against poverty. This also applies to good education, good care and so on. Actually, that's the underlying objective of all the policies. Specifically aimed at improving the position of children, we were greatly supported by an amendment tabled by Mr Van Laar and Mr Segers a few years ago. It called for an additional 3 million to be spent on improving children's rights. An action plan has been drawn up for this in conjunction with UNICEF, for which I am very grateful. As the Chamber knows, because we have discussed this on other occasions, it is being implemented at the moment. There are all kinds of elements in it, but in view of the clock, perhaps I will consider them known. In addition, 100 million have recently been made available to Social Affairs to combat child poverty. Of this, 1 million was made available by the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the poor children in the Caribbean region of the Kingdom. That is an answer to Mr Amhaouch's question. This will be spent in particular by nature, to be honest, also to prevent it from leaking out to the wrong destinations. I also visited the Youth and Family Centres there and let the situation work on me. Often the situation is partly that father's children beget and then sit in the beer house all day on the corner and ignore the children. The mothers have one job or sometimes two jobs to keep their heads above water. The best support is not only for the family, but also to ensure that there are sports facilities, that there is good education and that poverty is combated in kind. So that path is also being walked. The specific content of that million is still with Social Affairs. I would suggest that we have that conversation with Social Affairs in principle. If I can still play a coordinating role in this, I am always prepared to do so. This is done in consultation with public bodies. Of course, you cannot put the local government aside. A question from Mr Van Laar was whether we should work even more with qualitative data and data and whether they should be collected. I have already mentioned this in my letter of 6 October. I am prepared to repeat UNICEF's qualitative research. I'd like to bet on two tracks. In order to ensure adequate monitoring of the situation of children on the islands, it is essential that data registration is put in place. This means that I want to carry out a qualitative study, but also to set in motion a process to get data registration in order, as far as possible, in a way that, as Mr Van Laar rightly says, suits the islands. The social minimum has been requested. I would like to refer to what we have already exchanged in writing. That is the fact that the person responsible, namely the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, is currently working on the definition of a social minimum. That's new. That wasn't the policy before. It is linked to the minimum wage and then realized in two steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u71	I like to hear that, but it's not happening yet. This room has asked for it many times. The First Chamber even passed a motion on it. In response, we do not get the commitment "we're gonna settle it and we're gonna do it," but "we're gonna talk about it and we're gonna think about it." However, we are past that stage. The Second and the First Chamber just want this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u72	The promise was not: we are going to talk about it. The State Secretary's undertaking is that it will define a social minimum, which will be linked to a percentage of the minimum wage and will go there in two steps. That is the commitment made by the cabinet in response to the said motion of the First Chamber and to the question from the Second Chamber. If Mr Van Raak wishes to discuss the details of this further, I would like to refer in my role as coordinating minister to the discussion of the SZW budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u73	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u74	Mr Pechtold drew attention to the same point. I hope that's how I got him involved in my answer. In my opinion, I have answered the questions about this block. It was a little shorter than the last block. There are a number of questions left for each person, which I will come to in a moment. First of all, I would like to address the main issue: the various refineries. I only treat them one by one. I'll start with the Isla refinery on Curaçao. The Chamber has urged the Dutch Government, or the Kingdom Government, to enter into an agreement that more would happen and to make an active contribution to it. That's what happened. This relates both to putting environmental legislation in order and to improving refining processes. By BZK the project directors Mr Van Dam and Mr Sliedrecht have been appointed. They assisted in the assignment for the hire of refining expertise and assisted in the process of adapting environmental regulations. In June of this year offers were requested from several Dutch, German and American companies. They're done. At the beginning of August, the Council of Ministers of Curaçao agreed to reserve the necessary funds. It is a national responsibility, so it has to be implemented there in the end. The contracts are signed. Work is expected to start this month so that the results can be delivered to the government of Curaçao before the end of 2016. In this respect, therefore, we have acted in accordance with the questions asked by the House of Representatives. This really is an elaboration of Article 36 of the Statute. The countries stand by each other. I'm gonna stay on top of this, by the way. Mr Van Laar also asked about this. That's not the end of it. You can say that the fact that the school is closed for a day illustrates that there is a nationwide rescue. They act on the spot, but of course they do so in a context that should not take place. It shouldn't be like closing a school for a day because the pollution is too big. That is why environmental legislation must be in order, that the refining processes must be vetted and that we also contribute from the Netherlands. I will re-assess this as a point of interest to the government in the new government of Curaçao, but as we know, I do so also for the Dutch House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u75	There is now a verdict that is a bit harsh. Teachers and students fainted. That is why they have decided to stop teaching themselves and have been sent home in the hope that they will remove themselves from the poisonous smoke. If we are going to call that national address, we are way out of our league. National redres is that the government ensures that this kind of thing does not happen anymore and that, if a compressor fails, the smoke is somehow captured, that there are enough backup systems and so on. The fact that this situation is taking place shows that there is still no national remedy and that no action is being taken. So people keep breathing this smoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u76	This is also the reason why we insist, both in terms of environmental legislation and in terms of refining processes with expertise from the Netherlands, that the government of the country of Curaçao acts on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u77	Yeah, but it'll take a long time. And as long as it lasts and doesn't improve, there's no national redres. So we are not actually dealing with solving the problem. Then we are talking about it, but we have been doing so for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u78	Yeah, but I think that's a little too defeatist. There is really also an act from the Netherlands. You can't say it's not on the agenda in Curaçao. Legal proceedings are under way and the matter is on the political agenda. It's on the trade unions' agenda. Perhaps the trade unions are not always looking in the direction that Mr Van Laar and I consider desirable, because they look primarily at employment, while of course it is also about other aspects. However, you cannot say that the unions are looking the other way. Again, I share the feeling of urgency. Mr Van Laar and Mr Pechtold strongly supported the need to continue to act on it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u79	I would like to encourage the Minister not to look at where it is on the agenda, but to look at solutions that are actually being implemented. On behalf of the citizens, the people of Curaçao, I ask how the situation will improve and when it will. As long as there is no improvement, no matter how much talk is being made, there is no national pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u80	It's getting a bit of a legal twist now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u81	You get them around here sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u82	Yeah, we do. I note that there has been active action from the Netherlands within the area of competence, namely by providing expertise, by thinking along with it and also by constantly pressing on it. We have said that we cannot continue to look the other way. It is no longer possible to do so, and it is no longer possible to do so. We'll keep our finger on the wrist there. I know that Mr Van Laar and others here in the Chamber do the same, but I do the same from the government itself, within the powers that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u83	Can I ask the Minister when was the last time he paid a working visit to the Isla refinery?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u84	Mr Pechtold may ask that, but I do not have my complete agenda at hand. However, I come regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u85	I am concerned about the urgency that I want to taste in the Minister's office. "Agendas," "monitors," "surveillance," "discussion." In 2013, the sulphur dioxide emissions from the Isla refinery were five times higher than the average sulphur dioxide emissions in the US. International reports show that. The moment something goes wrong at this refinery, the question is whether the school will close, because the teachers and the students are sickly walking out, or the refinery will close. That's what I want to talk to the Minister about. I really don't understand why the Minister says after all this time that he's going to bring it up again, that he's going to do this and that he's going to do that. This is precisely what this is about: human rights. I understand the difficult years that have been there, but if, after all this time together, we are not yet able to prevent what happened at a school last week, then I do not think we are able to improve the situation. I ask the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u86	I just did. From the Netherlands, both in terms of environmental legislation and in terms of the analysis of refining processes, there has been a significant contribution to solving the problems on the ground. The primary responsibility for reducing emissions lies with the Curaçao Government. It also has to do with the fuels used. We can now talk about it very technically, but it is not so much the refining sec that causes the problems. To a large extent, that is the power plant and, above all, the fuel used, namely the large tar lake that lies there and which contains a lot of crap. If you're gonna get rid of that, there's gonna be a lot of crap in the air. I stress this because I will be talking about other refineries in the near future and we should not pretend that all situations are identical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u87	It's the result that matters to me. I am a representative of the people who must control the Minister in his role as responsible for the enforcement of certain rights in our Kingdom. I simply cannot accept that the Minister does not understand the urgency and that he does not understand how serious the situation is. Suppose that last week not that school, but the beach at Avila Beach had run out, because the Dutch had all got sick there, we would have said directly with all of us: this is so serious, that is not possible. I would like to stress this on purpose, because I believe that the Minister cannot just say what he has done and put it on the agenda. I just want to hear a timetable. I want to hear how, in 2019, when we start working with the Chinese again, this will lead to an improvement and how we, representatives of the people, can propose a plan to the people here and there, in which we say to them: we know that it is just as difficult now, we cannot achieve it in one day, but then it will be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u88	Mr Pechtold is only recently a spokesperson in this area, so I can imagine that this might give him the impression that there is a lack of urgency. But his ex-partner Wassila Hachchi stressed this point on behalf of D66 on previous occasions and in debates with me. At that time, too, I showed urgency on this point. I can give you the timeline. In early June 2016, tenders were requested for the inspection and audit of the refinery. The company offers were made at the end of June. The evaluation of the tenders took place at the beginning of July. At the beginning of August, the Council of Ministers agreed to the reservation of the necessary funds. These were submitted for further decision at the beginning of September. Work is expected to start this month and we will therefore have the results of both refining and nuisance legislation advice by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u89	So we can assume that by the end of the year, except for a possible incident, there will be a proper improvement of the environment in relation to the Isla?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u90	Yes. The advice is then there, but otherwise, of course, it is up to the government of Curaçao. If it does not act on that, there may be a moment when we say: wait a minute, it has been ensured, also with support from The Hague, that we know exactly what should happen; but if you refuse to do so, a new situation will arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u91	Until proven otherwise, I am happy to give this minister the benefit of the doubt. He just said in his introduction that this is most likely the last time he is standing here as a missionary minister. It seems that he has little confidence in the negotiating partners who are going to do their job on 16 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u92	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u93	But that is another very different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, in order to ensure that this confidence does not hang in the air or is expelled until 15 March, I would like to hear very clearly from the Minister what this means from December, especially since his rows are so complete. So what can we expect from December and what can we hold the government from there and the minister from here? Many people, people who always find this kind of debate very difficult, are interested in it. What is the enforcement framework, what can we use together in December and how does the Dutch Government intend to deal with it? I would like a written reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u95	This really is another Pechtoldian question, in which some things are hidden in the tail; this time about the common performance. However, I do not wish to underline this. I was looking for something I could promise. Let me just say that in December I will report on the state of play on this issue, so that the Chamber is fully informed. The implementation of this is, of course, primarily a national responsibility, but perhaps we can also assist in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u96	That's fine, but there was something very important in the tail of my formulation. I'm glad the Minister is so good at analysing this with me. But does the Minister think that this ultimately falls under his responsibility, which is for human rights? So, according to him, should the Kingdom, in this case this Minister, act in the event of such environmental pollution? Does he agree with me that the pollution that has been causing the Isla for years and public health, in addition to all its beautiful plans, ultimately fall under his responsibility, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u97	No, because the word "responsibility" is different from "guarantees." I think Mr Pechtold has been dealing with this issue for some time, so I think he ought to know. In any case, he should remember that the responsibility for the environment and health lies with the national government and, of course, the guarantee of that is ultimately with the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u98	This has been set out beautifully in words. This guarantee means that the Minister can play an active role if that guarantee so requires, because the conditions for the people in the vicinity of the refinery are at odds with human rights, public health and pollution requirements. So we're in agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u99	If that country fails to fulfil its responsibilities under Article 43 (1) of the Staff Regulations, the situation may arise that a designation must be given, and therefore intervention must be taken from the Trêveszaal. However, it is far from preferable for the country to assume its own responsibility, if necessary with the assistance and assistance of the Netherlands. That's exactly what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u100	I have been a spokesperson for Kingdom Relations for about six years now, and this is a recurring theme. This is exactly the point that Mr Van Raak and I make every time. We can fulminate, shout and demand what we want here, but it is not a matter or a responsibility of the House of Representatives. In fact, it's not even the Minister's responsibility. If there were any liability, it would concern the National Council of Ministers. That's a kingdom organ. It's very hybrid. Every time the question arises when there is redres. If there's been a lawsuit, there's redres. If a filter has been renewed, there is redres. We can fulminate here what we want. We can say that it is unacceptable, but there were elections in Curaçao last week. Should we put it aside? That is why I ask again... I will not put it as a question, but as a statement. We're in a hybrid system and we have to get rid of it: either we're responsible, or we're not. Otherwise, we are still standing here for the next ten, twenty, thirty years with six spokesperson Kingdom relations to fill in on things that happen that we have no control over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u101	I must point out, however, that the direction in which Mr Bosman wishes to depart is diametrically opposite to the direction which Mr Pechtold has just indicated and which I believe Mr Van Laar underlines. They underline that The Hague should feel more responsible for what is happening there, while Mr Bosman, because such a hybrid system is very complicated, wants to take a step back and thinks: they are looking at it. The latter would be the consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u102	No, I don't want to get rid of anything. I've said that a hundred thousand times. Together with Mr Van Raak, I have said very clearly that a commonwealth is absolutely a good thing. We don't sit back, like nothing has to happen. However, we must make a clear choice. This is the problem of a polder model in a Caribbean. That doesn't work, and we should accept that now. The polder model does not work in the Caribbean, so we have to choose. You have to take that step: you have to choose clearly. I think it does justice to Article 73 of the UN Charter if we take steps forward. I don't want to take any steps back; I don't have to colonize. No, I want to move forward. I want less control from this house, where we have no control over this point anyway, and I want more responsibility from Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, because that responsibility must lie there. That is why I say: we are halfway through; it is a hybrid system; make sure that we move forward together in independence. A commonwealth is an option. In addition, we still offer support and the posts, such as Defence, are still available. The way it is right now, we're not gonna fix this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u103	Well, then, I do understand. The VVD presents itself with a commonest structure in which environmental policy is a responsibility of the country of Curaçao and in which, if one is interested, we can send someone else to think with. This also means, in the eyes of the VVD, that if it comes out of there in the end and nothing is done about it, you are jerking your hands off of it. In the current situation we have another step behind us: if we do nothing about it at national level and there is a serious human rights violation, we can give an indication from the Trêveszaal to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u104	The minister's having trouble letting go. I understand, because they're beautiful islands. It would be nice to keep it with the Kingdom, so you can easily travel to it and still have a bit bigger empire than only the Netherlands. It's the VVD's responsibility. An independent country has its own control and its own elections. Of course we can provide support. We do not take our hands off it: if they want, they can get support, but it is not imposed from The Hague. In fact, imposing something from The Hague I have yet to see happen, because it does not happen that often. I am very curious to know how the cabinet deals with the Isla refinery, although I have actually heard that from the Minister: in principle he has a fine line, because something is still happening. Nothing's really gonna change in Curaçao for the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u105	I'm in supreme confusion right now. I thought that the line I set out here, namely that within the state responsibility, without taking responsibility from the government of Curaçao, to contribute to addressing this issue, would receive support from the VVD Group. I therefore do not understand why this rhetoric is needed, where a little faint, was also referred to the fact that the country is so beautiful to travel to. The last thing that moves me is that I find it pleasant to travel back and forth as much as possible. So I can't quite make that point. I note that the VVD Group supports standing policy, so that primarily the responsibility lies with the country of Curaçao and that the Netherlands remains as active and activist as possible to ensure that the situation improves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u106	No, just to be clear, the VVD believes that these countries should become independent and that we can provide support on request. We're still in the hybrid system now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u107	This is a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u108	It's still a bit of a weird responsibility. Again, the way the Minister explains it is different from the way I explain it. I believe it should be based on an independent demand position and not on the obligation in Article 43 (2).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u109	That is all well and good, but the Rutte/Asscher government stands for the line I am putting out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u110	I thought I heard new policies. A motion has been passed in which the Chamber declares that there is inadequate governance and that there is a violation of rights and that something must be done. Everything's been set in motion. I think the Minister just said that if the inspection report is there in December and Curaçao chooses not to do anything, while there are recommendations for how it should be improved, the guarantee function is clearly shown. I think the Minister said that and I hope he can confirm that I understood it so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u111	Now the question is asked as if I'm being caught in some indiscretion. It seems natural to me that if we support the setting up of environmental legislation, and if refining processes are examined to see where the pollution came from, then that is what happened, and that knowledge is not ready if the new government of Curaçao would say: good to know, but now we are not doing anything about it. At some point an escalation ladder comes into view and we have to act on that situation. I'm talking a little bit overwhelmed, because I'm just assuming that the Curaçao government will see this as an opportunity to address this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u112	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u113	Then we have had the first refinery and now we move on to the second: the refinery on Aruba. I have also written a letter on this matter to the Chamber, in which I have once again stated what the situation was, also historically. More than a year ago, the Prime Minister of Aruba, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, came to The Hague. He reported to me, among other things, but as I understand it, he also spoke to a number of colleagues from the cabinet, with a struggle. On the one hand, the Government of Aruba attaches and attaches great importance to the green image that Aruba has rightly built up in the world. Aruba is one of the examples of how it could be in terms of environmental and energy policy. On the other hand, a large refinery is empty and silent. I was there the other day during a work visit. It's a little nasty to see that refinery over there. Furthermore, the economy of Aruba, which is now entirely focused on tourism, is not doing so well either. It was considered whether it was not an idea to develop that refinery again. I have to say immediately that, as I understand it, this would not lead to a situation such as that at the Isla refinery, because that is precisely where the refining processes, in particular the power plant with the tar lake, lead to extreme pollution. There would be no such thing in Aruba. During these talks, it has always been clear to everyone, both to the Government of Aruba and to me, as well as to the other members of the Cabinet, that it is a national responsibility. It is up to the country of Aruba to decide what will eventually be done. Nor did they come here for permission, but to discuss this subject, precisely because of what I have just said and what I can also imagine, namely that the Prime Minister of Aruba attaches great importance to the green image of the country of Aruba in the world. He said: it would be a good thing if we were to act on fossil fuel again; that might not fit that image. He said that he also had a part of his green friends in the world, because he also addressed coalitions and people with whom he collaborated on this subject. I had the impression that he was somewhat surprised by the reactions of people that they could imagine the struggle, including from those green coalitions. It was said that if you could do that in a way that would limit environmental damage and help you develop your country, we could imagine that dilemma. That was my reaction, too. Moreover, a specific scan has been carried out by the Foreign Minister to see whether the conclusion of a contract on this point would put the Kingdom of the Netherlands internationally in an undesirable position. We always do, because in the end it is always the Kingdom that is addressed. This has just been discussed in a very different context. If, for example, something were to happen to a criminal organisation or to drug money, then the reputation of the Kingdom would be at stake. So a quick scan was performed by the State Department to see if there was any reason to say "no." There wasn't a reason. It is clear that it was, of course, a trade-off and it is up to the country of Aruba whether or not to resume its business there. As I understand it, it has also been decided in the States of Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u114	But it's just a very bad deal that that refinery is being opened by a subsidiary of the PDVSA, while that company itself is also a collateral for the PDVSA? That deal will cause Aruba incredibly big problems, because in future the country will have a financial responsibility of hundreds of millions. All these promises from Venezuela are nothing at the moment, they are butter soft, but the commitments that Aruba and that Aruba will never be able to pay are tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u115	I hear Mr Van Laar's assessment of the deal made by the Government of Aruba. It is up to him to have an opinion on that. It's not my place to judge that deal. The budgetary implications of this deal are, of course, part of the Republic of Aruba's budget to be adjusted. Financial supervision will then be carried out by the College Aruba as part of its legal task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u116	I am Mr Van Raak, not Mr Van Laar. But that they forgive you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u117	I couldn't get it right now. Did the minister speak to the wrong people's representative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u118	Maybe I said "Van Laar" to "Van Laar."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u119	It's a lot alike. We're all left, too, so we're gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u120	You have no idea! I'm often referred to as "Mr. Pechtold."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u121	I think that's worse too!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u122	That name also starts with a P. Then you get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u123	I give the floor to Mr Van Raak of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u124	Exactly! The Ministry looked at this deal and did not think at the time: the commitments made by PDVSA are soft, the financial responsibilities that Aruba is facing are tough; this will eventually lead to very big financial problems for Aruba and those financial problems will not be solved by Curaçao, which will not be resolved by St.Maarten, so that account will eventually end up in the Netherlands? The Minister didn't think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u125	Mr Van Raak is not actually getting off to a good start, because I did not look at that deal. I have also just painted that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs of Aruba came here when they were still in dubio or they wanted to activate that refinery again. At that point, there was no deal. It's not my job to judge them either. I can recall from those talks that they were extremely optimistic about their impact on the economy, and therefore on the Aruba budget, and that I did say that the desire to put the Aruba budget in order was not met by the opening of a refinery, because there were still other reasons, apart from the business model of that refinery, for continuing to raise the issue of Aruba's budget. That's a contribution I did make back then. Furthermore, there was nothing on the table for my assessment at the point of the deal. It wouldn't be my job either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u126	Then again we have the problem of the oppressive corset of the Kingdom. I have also often seen presentations of budgets in Aruba when we visited them. Even I could see that it was not good and that it was all butter soft. That was also apparent afterwards. Surely it is not possible for the Dutch Government to take note of a plan that we all know is financially soft and dangerous to Aruba and then say: that is Aruba's responsibility, you are failing financially but through the ice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u127	I don't share the assumption. That means that it is bad and that it will cause people to sink through the ice. That is an assessment by Mr Van Raak and neither by Mr Pechtold nor by me. I'm gonna leave it for what it is. Now I'm inviting Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u128	In this case, I do not want to talk about the precise responsibilities, but about the image that arises when a delegation comes from Aruba and visits three ministers, including the Prime Minister. I've heard other stories, too. It has not been said 'we are not talking about it', but it has not been said 'we agree'. People have been listening and they haven't said "boys, don't get started." In the general consultations we have had on this subject, I have put particular emphasis on the question of whether it has been democratically successful, including in Aruban democracy. Did the Minister satisfy himself of the points I told him yesterday? I'd like to treat him now anyway. Is that expensive pipeline coming in to keep it clean? That is one of the points with which the Kingdom has been appeased. What about the financial construction that PDV invented for that pipeline? What about the old mess? In this deal, it's Aruba's responsibility to clean it up. The island also guarantees a further EUR 300 million, with no upper limit. These are all things you need to keep an eye on from the point of view of good governance, aren't they? You gotta say, guys, if you make a deal where Aruba guarantees 300 million without an upper limit, whose sign does it end up on? That says now one of those who I believe is the mildest about our relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u129	I think it's six questions. Let me try to answer them all. In the discussion with the Prime Minister of Aruba, I did not give the impression at any time that there was a decision I should have taken. That wasn't at all the question he came here with. It's normal in the Kingdom Relations to make sure you don't surprise each other about such a big issue. He did that when the bullet wasn't through the church as far as the government of Aruba was concerned, and I appreciate that. Apparently, he made a round here. I didn't realize that at the time, because I don't keep my colleagues' agenda. He has not only spoken to me, but apparently also to the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister. I can imagine that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u130	Surely it is impossible for the Minister of Kingdom Relations not to know that the Prime Minister has also been to the Foreign Office and to our Prime Minister? What kind of painful insight do we get into your actions and the way in which you control your administrative organisation? I just heard it in a sentence: "I've turned out to be..." That's really...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u131	Mr Pechtold obviously has experience in managing the same organisation, which he always likes to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u132	I'm gonna fit in a little bit for the Minister to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u133	Wait a minute, Mr. Plasterk was halfway through his sentence. He's gonna finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u134	I refer to it because Mr Pechtold does so every time, but I will leave it to rest. It is not impossible at all that someone from the government of another country in the Kingdom is visiting me and has other appointments on the agenda, and that I am not keeping exactly the agenda of the Foreign Minister. In fact, I assume that people will travel efficiently and that when they make that journey, they will make all the arrangements all the way from the Caribbean to here. From time to time I hear people say: I am here now and I also go to those-and-those. I don't keep a systematic record of that. None of my predecessors have ever systematically kept track of whether anyone who visits him or her will visit other colleagues in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u135	I'm fine with it. Play that game of "Pechtold knew it ten years ago." I told you once that I know this file. I haven't interfered in this for ten years, and I've determined one thing: that you haven't done anything about it in the last five years. If that's how we're gonna play it... It is very important that the Minister of the Interior knows that such a delegation is with the Prime Minister and with Foreign Affairs. Do you know why? They could say something else, too. They could have said quite another thing. Now I have to get the calls from Aruba and the other countries where they say: well, that was a different conversation. Indeed, I find it foolish that you are unable to know what has been discussed with other ministers from the Dutch cabinet, who should speak with one voice. You should be on top of that. But let's leave that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u136	Shall I respond to that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u137	Yeah, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u138	I regret once again that I have begun to discuss this at Mr Pechtold's level, so I will leave this to it. Because when words are launched as "idiotic"... I'm just going to confine myself to the refinery and the issue about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u139	Yes. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u140	I've actually already answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u141	Well, then I'd like to know that the Minister has done what he can tell me about that expensive pipeline and what the guarantee is about keeping it clean. I would therefore like to know how he looks at the 300 million with no cap on it, for which, if things go a little wrong, the Kingdom could take the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u142	Two points. The Kingdom is not going to pay for the cost of that pipeline. That's a national responsibility. I have already answered the question about the implications for the budget, namely that the CAft will have to re-evaluate the revised Aruba budget, given the country's decision to open that refinery, and will have to advise the National Council of Ministers on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u143	There are also people following us in the public gallery and at home. I keep hearing "Capht."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u144	Sorry. That's the college that supervises Aruba financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u145	Isn't that the Cft, the Financial Supervision College?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u146	That only saves one letter. There is the Cft, which is set for Curaçao and Saint Martin. Also from history, because of the special status that Aruba has always had, a separate decision has been made. That was about the CAft, Mr Aruba financial supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u147	Okay. Then we know that at home, and so do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u148	I have still not received an answer to my question about the guarantees given by the Minister concerning PDVSA, which, through this construction, which I regard as dubious, has now come up with something about a pipeline which means that it is at least a little cleaner. What are the guarantees about this? Can he show me those guarantees? Did he see the paperwork of that himself? What are the guarantees for our Kingdom that that will be a clean matter? What exactly has been agreed in the financial sense about this 300 million-dollar guarantee from Aruba? How could the Aruban parliament control that? How does this minister guarantee that no problem will come out of the top hat in the near future that PDVSA, which is on a financially shaky basis, will still be in trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u149	Again a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u150	I can't guarantee that, because it's a matter of country. I leave the qualifications 'dubious' and 'idiot' entirely to Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u151	I didn't use the word "idiot."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u152	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u153	Yes. The time before, but not in this interruption. If we're gonna be witty, I can do that, too. I have put "dubious" in brackets as my understanding, but I have asked the question without the word "dubious." I just want to know from the Minister what he can tell me and above all what he can guarantee us around that pipeline and around that 300 million. If an island goes up for 300 million without a cap, I assume that the Minister already has the guarantee that that amount will not end up on that island immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u154	I answered that. It is not for me to give guarantees of a deal made by an autonomous country in the Kingdom. I would like to point out, however, that the CAft is going to look at the implications for the country's budget of course and will advise the National Council of Ministers on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u155	Let me come back to that quick scan, which was carried out under the responsibility of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u156	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u157	That quickscan is also about the financial grounds or energy-related geopolitical aspects, and whether those would be reasons not to sign that MoU. That is a greater responsibility than is outlined here. This means that the picture has been sketched out that at least the Foreign Minister would have no objection to signing the MoU.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u158	The State Department conducts a marginal scan in these situations. This is not about the decision to do it. It is clear that it is up to the country government to take that decision. That scan is about whether there are any geopolitical objections from the perspective of foreign affairs that would make the Kingdom of the Netherlands uncomfortable if that deal were to be entered into. So this includes the aspects that I mentioned and which Mr Bosman mentioned. The answer to the question of whether we could find ourselves in an uncomfortable position was negative. So there was no reason to say "no" at that point. That leaves it entirely in the middle whether it's wise to make that deal. However, there has never been any misunderstanding with the Government of Aruba: she knew that, of course, it is not up to the Dutch Foreign Minister to judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u159	The image I get from Aruba is: there is permission from the Netherlands. The green light went on. In fact, they said it themselves: no objection. I find that very strange. That's why I'd like to see that quick scan. I think that's wise. This is in principle the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's about a responsibility that might hit me. So I'd really like to see that quick scan. Curaçao also signed a MoU with China in respect of the refinery. Did the Secretary of State run a quick scan on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u160	I'm glad I was able to clear this up here. So there is no misunderstanding about the following. The decision to re-activate that refinery is a decision of the country of Aruba. It could have been that a "no" had come from the Foreign Affairs Department, and from the responsibility of that Ministry for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. It's a good thing they checked that out in advance. If there's a no, there'll be another situation. A key has been done, but that's a marginal key, a quick scan. There is therefore no full assessment as to whether it is wise to do so. It is not the case that Mr Koenders decides to open a refinery in Aruba; let that be clear. That is a responsibility of the country of Aruba. But once again, because we are entering the international market, a quick scan is indeed being done by the Foreign Office. It looks at whether this might embarrass us at international level. The answer to that question was that we would not be embarrassed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u161	The Minister's answer is incomplete. First of all, I'd like to see that quick scan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u162	That is a question for my colleague from the Foreign Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u163	No, I'm asking the cabinet. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u164	I'll pass it on to my colleague from the State Department. This is not my portfolio responsibility. I can't see if that quickscan is meant to make an audience. So should Mr Bosman have any further wishes on this matter, I would refer him to my colleague in the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u165	The Minister says that the Foreign Minister could have said no. Apparently, the Secretary of State could have said no to the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u166	That's right. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als er …]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u167	Sorry, I'm not done, Mr. Chairman. So there's control over this trial in Aruba. This means that there is a responsibility for this with the Foreign Minister. So there's control over what's going on there. I'll just put my question to the cabinet. I'm gonna ask for that quick scan again. And I also asked a question about Curaçao. That country's going into a MoU with China. Did you run a quick scan for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u168	I can't answer that last question right now. I shall therefore return to this in writing on occasion. I assume this is a responsibility of the State Department, but I'd like to ask for it. I don't know. The request to make that quickscan public, I'll redirect it to whoever's responsible for it. I have the impression that the quickscan wasn't meant for that, but I'd like to leave it with whoever's responsible for this. Finally, Mr Bosman gives the impression that this is the most important thing, of course, that the conclusion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there was no objection from the point of view of foreign policy to reopening that refinery would mean that one would have control over the decision whether or not to open that refinery. They don't have that kind of control. One has the power to say, for example, that this cannot be done anyway, because you are dealing here with a connection with a pirate regime. One could say in such a case: this would embarrass the Kingdom of the Netherlands. That was the nature of that quick scan. But that does not mean that the Dutch Foreign Minister has control over the decision to reopen the refinery in Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u169	Minister Plasterk writes in his own letter to the Chamber that it is first and foremost on financial grounds. So it is not just geopolitical, but also financial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u170	It is therefore possible that, on financial grounds, the Kingdom of the Netherlands may be embarrassed by reopening that refinery. But it listens closely, because otherwise the assessment of the financial aspects of reopening such a refinery does not lie with the Dutch Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u171	Then I am very curious to know what these financial grounds are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u172	That money could come from regimes that, for example, have obtained it in a criminal way. There may therefore be financial or other reasons that would cause the Kingdom of the Netherlands to be embarrassed by this business transaction of the country of Aruba. This gives the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom the power to conduct a marginal test to assess whether this leads to any objection from the perspective of Foreign Affairs. The answer to that was negative. It did not raise such an objection and then, of course, it is up to the Government of Aruba to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u173	I think it's very special, because we do business with...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u174	Last one!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u175	... Venezuela, this is PDVSA. If I took a marginal test on PDVSA and on the sustainability of PDVSA's and Venezuela's finances, I already know that's not gonna be him. So what has the Foreign Minister assessed on financial grounds and on what risks? I come to Mr Pechtold and Article 36, which provides for mutual assistance. Then that account just ends in the Netherlands. Once again, I did not say that the Foreign Minister has a say, but he has a responsibility. He has a responsibility to say no. I repeat, but that is the problem of this hybrid system we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u176	Now they're bringing in a lot of stuff. Let me confine myself to what we are discussing now, namely the question of what the Foreign Minister did when he carried out that quickscan. I have explained this clearly in my opinion. He has the responsibility to see whether this large transaction, which the country of Aruba has planned and which is also within the competence of the country of Aruba, would lead to embarrassment or undesirableness for the Kingdom of the Netherlands in the field of foreign affairs. Whether this would include the financial path is something other than assessing, for example, the social and economic soundness or the business model of that refinery. That is in no way the expertise or competence of the Dutch Foreign Minister. He didn't test it. On the other hand, the CAft, the College Aruba financial supervision, obviously has the task of monitoring the consequences of the deal for Aruba's adjusted budget. We'll hear the advice on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u177	The Minister continues his speech. You still have a second term, and I'm looking at the clock. We also have a debate for tonight. If you want to make a procedural point, say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u178	The point is that the minister says if the quickscan goes public. He doesn't have to go public, because he can just go to the Chamber by himself. That's not an obstacle to showing that quick scan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u179	We don't know by now. You mean confidential?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u180	Confidential to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u181	I will pass the request on to my colleague from the Foreign Office. Mr Van Raak and Mr Bishop asked about NuStar. There is actually a disagreement between the administration of the island of Saint-Eustatius and the company NuStar. By the way, that company always knows how to find the way to the Netherlands to defend its interests. That is also good, because NuStar is of great importance to the economy of the small island. Sint Eustatius' board of directors has asked my sg for support to break the deadlock and has decided to propose a facilitator, who, together with all government parties and with the company NuStar and the other stakeholders, will come to a process that could resolve the issue. The aim is to reach agreement in the end. We from ABDTOPConsult asked Mr Mark Dierikx to mediate in that conflict. That's the state of play there. I'm gonna take a breath and move on to the next block. We have before dinner to go: crime, corruption and gambling, and then individual questions from the members. I'll try to get through it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u182	We're running out mainly because I've allowed so many interruptions, but it was a lively debate. It was worth it. Maybe we can all cooperate a little bit and take account of tonight's colleagues. But you really don't have to race.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u183	Thank you. Mr Van Raak asked if I could tell you more about the research into the gambling industry on St.Maarten. The RST, together with local police forces, investigates serious and cross-border crime. Of that 22 million, it's invested in a team to combat undermining. That's been operational for about six months now. I can't go into ongoing investigations, but they've already caught some big fish, including... I need to see what the amount was. On Curaçao, a number of leading figures have been persecuted and condemned in the Babel case. This led to a sentence to three years in prison for Mr Schotte and to absolve him of his right to be elected. As you know, this case has been appealed, so it's still pending. But at first it has been proven: falsehood in writing, money laundering, having frequency laments, official bribery and a false declaration of the loss of a diplomatic passport. Then there is the Bientu case with the conviction of gambling boss Robbie dos Santos on 1 April of this year to a two-year prison sentence for money laundering, forgery in writing and tax evasion. In addition, I was looking for a sum of 72.5 million. That verdict is final. On St.Maarten, the former Minister of People's Health Maria Buncamper and her husband were sentenced to a 12-month suspended sentence, et cetera. In other words, one is also really willing and able to bite through, even when it comes to high-ranking people. That's the way it should be, because Lady Justitia wears a blindfold when it comes to the social position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u184	I'm so happy about this. I also see that these cases are being dealt with. Is there a structural view of the money flows from the gambling industry to politics? I ask the Minister whether this will continue to be the case in the future. We now see that Theo Heyliger, or at least his party, is again part of the government on Saint Martin. On Curaçao, Schotte's party will probably not be part of the government, but with MFK and PS we are dealing with parties that have only recently converted, let's just say. I have every confidence in it, but can the Minister say whether the investigation will continue if there is opposition from the government of Curaçao or the government of Saint Martin?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u185	It seems to me that opposition from the government is no reason to stop the investigation. Moreover, I have no reason to believe that there is such a contradiction. I cannot speak as freely about people like Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u186	I doubted that for a while, but public figures are public figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u187	They're all politicians; I'll take them for my own account. Another very important question: where does the money come from and where is it laundered? The Minister knows we've been looking for gambling sites. We found 400, minimal, active from Curaçao, anywhere in the world. Millions, perhaps billions, are being laundered there. Can the Minister say whether this online gambling industry, which is a millions, if not billions, industry, is also part of this research?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u188	For the record, the Dutch Gaming Authority has no powers on Curaçao. I can't get to it through Dutch authorities, it's a country matter for the country of Curaçao to regulate gambling, until the prosecution investigates the suspicion of criminal offences at some point. I have just illustrated that people have the willingness and also the ability to do so if that is the case. So far I can go from my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u189	We're about to have a new government in Curaçao. The way it is regulated by law is already dubious, but we know that the supervision of these sites is extremely limited. Is the Minister prepared to make arrangements with the new government of Curaçao or at least come into conversation to see if the legal arrangements that make these gambling sites possible are right and whether the monitoring of these gambling sites is properly arranged? Is he also willing to make arrangements with the government of Curaçao to close them if necessary, if gambling sites go over the line and turn out to be involved in money laundering?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u190	A whole series of questions in one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u191	I am prepared to say yes to a large part of that, but please stick to the word 'agreements', which suggests that it is a shared responsibility. I would like to leave the responsibility where it lies, namely with the government of the country of Curaçao, but I am prepared to raise it there and say that I support it. I have not yet received a request for support, but if the new government of Curaçao wants expertise, for example from the Netherlands, we will be happy to provide it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u192	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u193	That's it about this cluster. I'll be right back to individual, specific questions. Mr Fritsma asked about the Integrity Room on St.Maarten. I have said it in general consultation, but I would also like to stress in plenary that I was uncomfortablely surprised. We had concluded an agreement with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice of Saint Martin, with a signature underneath and a initial on each page, on the establishment of an Integrity Chamber. When all this had happened, we had to read in the newspaper that the court in St.Maarten still had the power to review it. I would have preferred to have heard that when we made that deal with the government of Saint Martin. Moreover, the court has apparently found an objection to what has been agreed. I'm starting to lose my temper over this. The conclusion of that agreement was an attempt to reach agreement. If this does not happen in the end, the instrument of the designation by the National Council of Ministers will be put back on the table. I realize that there have just been elections and that a new government needs to be formed. We hope it will do the right thing. I would like to express my displeasure at the fact that this has been the way it has been done. That surprised me very much. I'm trying to answer the questions in the order in which they were spoken. I'll start with Mr Van Raak. He has already asked a question by way of interruption about granting Saba more freedom. We'll do what we can there. I refer to the answer I gave. I'm sure there's that willingness. I think his other questions have been raised through the interruptions. Mr Bosman and I have just spoken a long time ago. He asked for election observation missions in the Kingdom. At his suggestion, three weeks ago, I made that offer at the National Council of Ministers. There was no response at the time. I imagine it was just before the elections. I promise him that once again and now I will be holding elections at a distance, so now it has to be clear in the National Council of Ministers whether we can agree to organise some kind of observation in elections. After all, we have now even had to decide on a recount on Saint Martin. One can also see that it is better to arrange it in front, so I hope. I will try to convince colleagues in the National Council of Ministers that it would be good to make an agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u194	That is a very good undertaking, also very important for democracy in the Kingdom. Can we get feedback from the outcome of the conversation? Otherwise, we may have to come up with an initiative law to bring about election observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u195	I would strongly advise against the latter, because elections are really a matter of country. That's why it's so important. It is a reasonable request, actually an offer to say: we all have an interest in the integrity of the electoral process and it is a good use to deploy international observers and ask if we can support each other in this. I'll put it on the National Council of Ministers. I think it will only be useful if new governments are formed in the countries where elections have been held, so that the Minister responsible really speaks on behalf of his or her government. That may take a while, but I'll report on the outcome of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u197	If that report goes to the Chamber within a month of that conversation, I think that would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u198	That's what I'm telling you. Mr Amhaouch asked about the budget for the Coast Guard. During the August decision-making process, the Cabinet released a sum of 12 million for the exchange rate issue. That's in chapter four. As a result, the current tasks of the Coast Guard are guaranteed. It's important that it's been recognized. A system is being developed to deal with exchange rate fluctuations in a structural manner. The problem is that you don't hear people when they go in the right direction, but they do when they go in the other direction. However, it cannot be that the coastguard does not carry out essential tasks; we therefore agree with that. Mr Amhaouch also asked about the bill of his colleague Bosman. This has been dealt with here recently. We have indeed assumed that the intention of the coalition agreement would be discussed here in the Chamber. It has also been discussed. Now that it seems to be stranded there, the question is justified as to what the government is going to do to achieve this point in the coalition agreement. However, we are running a bit out of time. I would therefore ask you to understand that it may be a little complicated to start such a process by March next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u199	Does the Minister recognize that it is still a serious problem? I think a lot of people here do not agree with the solution proposed in it, but if you write something down in the government agreement and if an initiative proposal from a Member of Parliament breaks down on that, then you can't say that you're not going to do anything and that you're just waiting for the elections to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u200	The Chamber has concluded the coalition agreement. A majority has determined that there was reason to do something at this point. I have realised that this point could be achieved by the initiative proposal that was put forward here. I understand last week, so very recently, that it will not be taken to the First Chamber. Strictly speaking, I must of course say that I will consider in the Cabinet how we will deal with this, but let us not fool each other. I believe I have even received a warning from the Bureau to clarify what legislative proposals still need to be dealt with here. So I do not think it is realistic to start a new legislative process in this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u201	Then I ask the Minister if he can send a letter to the Chamber explaining how the cabinet will proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u202	I admit that, of course, because I cannot refuse to do so, but its content will be in line with the oral summary I have just given. It is simply not realistic to use a whole legislative process on this issue in these few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u203	Of course, I should not interfere in the substance of the debate. I do not think I will do that either by saying the following to Mr Amhaouch. The Minister has already said what he is going to put in that letter, namely that he no longer comes forward with a proposal. Do you really want that letter, Mr Amhaouch? After all, the Minister has just said what he is doing, namely nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u204	We'd like that letter. We just want to know what the cabinet position is. This was in the coalition agreement. The government itself has done nothing about it. Mr Bosman has taken the initiative. We, and many of us, didn't like it. The government is now saying: we are doing nothing. So I want to have it literally in black and white that the government isn't gonna do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u205	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u206	Paper's patient. We have seen more parts of the coalition agreement achieved through an initiative proposal. Take the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's appointment. That is not so crazy in itself. When the initiative comes to an end, there will be a new situation. I am now reminded by my support that this is the portfolio responsibility of my colleague Dijkhoff. That is without prejudice to my being able to pass on the request for a letter. However, we speak with one voice, so I assume he will say the same as I have just said on this point. It's a politician. I assume that I will give a letter requested by a Member of Parliament if that is physically possible. However, I agree with you that it will not lead to a great enrichment of parliamentary history, Mr President. Then I come to a point by Mr Amhaouch which appeals very much to me. This is about the fact that maintenance and operation are often absent when an investment is made in the Caribbean Netherlands. I see that. I see that dilemma, too. I can also imagine that it is tempting to make an investment and to say that in the division of tasks the responsibility for maintaining it lies with the public body, because there is that free allowance to do so. If we do not then that investment will be ruined. I cannot solve this now without a new budget, other than by expressing the intention and reminding colleagues in the cabinet that when an investment is made, it is wise to include the costs of maintenance as part of the plan and decision-making so that these things do not rot there. I think this is a good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u207	I'm glad we can find each other here. The Minister acknowledges that there is a looming error there. If investments are made by the government departments, hundreds of millions go to the islands, which have only about 40 million to spend themselves. Each investment ends in additional costs in the case of the free payment. It has been pointed out in the Spies report. The department itself commissioned the investigation of IdeeVersa. This concerns Article 87, which requires the calculation of the cost of maintenance and capital costs for each investment. What else are we gonna do tomorrow than today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u208	Thank you for that support. Let me be more specific. I will make a proposal in the coming months in consultation with the other departments. The starting point is not to make an investment if there is no exploitation. We will have to face the fact that investment decisions must have a budget, wherever they are, in order to maintain them. Furthermore, in consultation with the CFT, I will use a route for the BES and the island authorities, in which, in accordance with the Decision on budget and accountability, BES will be assessed whether sufficient funds have been earmarked in the budget by public bodies on the basis of maintenance plans. This obligation is already in force, but it is not sufficiently fulfilled. I'll make this happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u209	If I understand correctly, the Minister and his colleagues are going to look at how this will be structurally secured in the future. Is he also looking at the overdue maintenance there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u210	This is mainly about the future. When it comes to the tendency of colleagues to clean up late maintenance, for which the island administration strictly had the responsibility to commit it all at once, I cannot just promise that it will be there. My commitment just now relates in particular to investment decisions. With the Spies Committee, I note that they have been taken in the past from the sympathetic thought that there is still a budget for a viaduct or a building, so let us do so. At the end of the year, there is sometimes some left on a budget. Let's do something nice for that. It has not been ensured that there is sufficient cover for this structural maintenance. That shouldn't happen again. I undertake to take action on the two routes I have just outlined. Remains the issue of the late maintenance that remains. I cannot make a full commitment to clear that up, because I cannot fully see the budgetary implications of it. It will go one step at a time, so it will take a long time. This applies, for example, to the roads on Bonaire. There's a lot of late maintenance there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u211	Last but not least, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u212	We understand that the Minister cannot make a budget commitment here. The Minister on Kingdom Relations, but not on the countries we have also talked about, so we can also spend some time on these municipalities. Is the Minister prepared to clarify these late maintenance costs so that the Court can take a decision on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u213	I think we should also put the Cft in position. I will pass on the question to the CFT as to whether we can get an idea of the costs arising from late maintenance. That is complicated, because it relates partly to country roads, but the border between late maintenance and something that has never been properly put in order can be a bit diffuse. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u214	I would like to distinguish two things for these three islands, otherwise it will run through each other. One point is that we may gradually have some insight into what we have taken on our necks and into the overdue maintenance that has been taking place in recent decades. That's one question to the Minister. The second question concerns the investments that have been made, particularly since 10-10-10. Sometimes they were well-intentioned. I believe the literal example is about lamps next to the runway. They're very good for safety. However, if you don't have a budget to replace those lights when they break down, we end up getting the picture that the place is rotting and that nothing is done about it. I would like to hear two things from the Minister in the near future. Firstly, it is when we understand the infrastructure and all the investments in the broad sense on the three islands of the distant past, and so when we know what our plans should be for the future. Secondly, to what extent the Minister with the other departments is able to ensure that such an investment is only accompanied by a structural maintenance obligation and funding. It's up to the Minister himself to tell us when he can deliver it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u215	Those are actually the same questions as the questions asked by the CDA colleague. I could refer briefly to those answers, but I would also like to repeat them specifically for Mr Pechtold. The answer to that last question is that in the coming months I will develop a proposal in consultation with the fellow departments and submit it to the CN table. For example, it can then be sent that departments provide sufficient structural cover for proposals for investment in capital goods, in the sense that "no operation is not an investment'. I can also mention the second stage, but for the sake of short, I would like to refer to what I have said to Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u216	How can it be that in five years' time this leads to the Minister not knowing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u217	This hasn't happened in five years. Unfortunately, there is a long tradition of carrying out a beautiful project and then letting it fade away. This is not only the case with public bodies, but also with the countries of the Kingdom. It's no different. You don't just flatten that away. Anyone who visits there will see the traces of it. Sometimes you see a monument on Curaçao and you think: how the hell is this possible? It's beautiful and your hands will itch, because you'd like to take it for granted immediately. In the most divine places there are beautiful monuments. That's where cobwebs hang. That's just a structural problem. It's silly to say this is from the past few years. This has been going on there for a long time. In good consultation with the local government, we must ensure that we clean up the overdue maintenance. Well, I guess I'm just gonna stick to the public bodies for now. In the case of housing, moreover, this is the primary portfolio responsibility of the colleague dealing with housing, infrastructure, environment and so on. However, from my coordinating role, I will be very active in monitoring this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u218	It's the last one. The minister gets a little nasty every time. That just means I'm gonna shoot. Of course, I'm just asking him what he did about it. The Minister was also coordinating in the decentralisations in the Netherlands. We have never seen him act on that, and all the trade ministers have just done so themselves. We are now getting the same picture from this minister in this role. However, Kingdom relations are his portfolio. What has he done in the past few years, starting from about 10-10-10 and beyond, in order to prevent something like late maintenance from being extended further with well-meaning investments from fellow departments? He exudes that he knows nothing about it, has no overview and is going to study now, in the last six months of his ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u219	I don't know exactly who's nasty here, but for the decentralisations, I'm a coordinating minister. I have held regular debates with the Chamber to ensure that this process has been managed in consultation with the VNG. Perhaps this is a personal point made by Mr Pechtold. I can't do that much with it. So I'm just gonna leave that description for what she is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u220	But now for the answer to the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u221	To Mr Amhaouch, who asked this constructively, I also gave an uplifting answer. I therefore refer to that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u222	And I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u223	You're asking the same question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u224	No, I am asking what you have done over the past five years to ensure that the overdue maintenance of the decades or perhaps the centuries before has now stopped. What have you done to ensure that no runways were provided with lamps without any thought being given to what happened next? These are just concrete examples. Indeed, I made a comparison with another coordinating task the Minister has.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u225	Yeah, wrongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u226	What has the Minister done about this in his coordinating role?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u227	You can keep repeating it, but that doesn't make it reasonable. My colleagues from Infrastructure and the Environment, for Housing and the National Service and for nature have in any case been represented departmentally, but often also personally went to the public bodies to inform themselves of the situation on the ground. They have often found margins in their end-of-year budgets to make that extra investment. I mentioned the investment in school buildings, for example on Bonaire. I very much appreciate what OCW has done on that point. The division of tasks is so that in principle it is up to the island administration to ensure maintenance. The Spies Committee points out that there is too much tendency not to take that responsibility. This means that in future we will have to remind the departments that, even if they have the space to make a beautiful investment that makes everyone happy, they should not make that investment if the island authorities do not also provide an exploitation plan with credible coverage. I just promised that to the CDA spokesman. I refer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u228	And with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u229	I think I have answered Mr Amhaouch's questions. That's what I was doing. I turn to Mr Van Laar's questions, which have largely been addressed in the general section. He is still asking for a general reference point for the Caribbean Netherlands. Although the staff of the RCN help where they can, even when it comes to legal questions, the RCN does not have a formal legal point of contact. Together with V and J, we are now looking at the possibilities of developing a general point of reference. That is actually the short answer to the question. I'll inform the Chamber about the result of that viewing. Thank you for the comprehensive report on the Caribbean Netherlands. It's on the pile in front of me. My compliments on the form chosen. People get involved. I think that is a good and creative way of fulfilling the role of the people's representatives in this direction. It is of course easier for people there to do it this way than to walk by an ombud point. After all, that is always a long way away. So I appreciate that form. The report also contains questions. One of the questions is why people can't apply for a DigiD. Will I promise that I will look at and address the examples in conjunction with them and send a written response to them in the near future? Can I treat this in this way and do justice to the great work that has been put into it? There are three other speakers, including Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u230	But first, Mr Van Laar is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u231	Thank you for this response. I had also asked the Minister for a reply to the letter from the College of Human Rights and to the letters from UNICEF and from a number of children's rights organisations. They say that we must work towards a social minimum based on living costs. They also say that children must come out of poverty before the children's rights projects have any real effect. Those two opinions shall be examined in consultation. I would also like to mention the increase in family allowances. How does the Minister feel about that now? How does he view these reactions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u232	I didn't mean to avoid that question, but frankly, I had the impression that I had already discussed this when dealing with the issue of poverty and children's rights. Let me come back briefly. My colleague from SZW intends to link the social minimum to the minimum wage and go there in two steps. For the rest, through the Van Laar/Segers amendment, we have committed 3 million to supporting children's rights. Of the recent package of 100 million, we have committed 1 million. For this purpose, I should like to refer to the discussion of Mr Klijnsma's budget. Perhaps it will be possible to discuss its implementation with the cabinet. That's my reaction to that input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u233	Perhaps I can ask a question about the social minimum, because that is a key element of the coordinated policy. If we set the social minimum at the level at which the Nibud says it is just enough to pay only the rent of or to buy only the food, to what extent is that really a social minimum? If you can only rent a house from it and can't eat anything else and can't make any other costs, it's not really a social minimum, is it? Then it is a very nice increase in the under stand, but then it is not a social minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u234	I hear what Mr Van Laar is saying, but we are now entering the specific debate on the use of assistance and other forms of support for the social minimum. I really have to refer to my colleague, Mr Klijnsma, who has the portfolio responsibility for this. More generally, as I said in my introduction, I believe that everything we do there is part of the fight against poverty. It's annoying to say, but part of the problem is made up of fathers who neglect their families. I agree that the economic development of islands is lagging behind. In the first term, Bonaire was compared with some kind of tropical paradise. On an island like Bonaire, with its natural resources, beautiful coral reefs and beautiful nature and with its large area with relatively few inhabitants, indeed more tourism could and should be developed in a nature-friendly way. This creates jobs and revenues. I have always been inspired by Jan Pronk, who said perhaps 40 years ago: don't give people fish, but a fishing rod. That is the most efficient way of combating poverty. Looking at the big picture in this coordinating role, I say: if we can get the houses there in order, that the economy is running, that it is safe on the street, that the infrastructure has improved and that the schools and care are good, then we will contribute to the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u235	That's a remarkable statement. The Spies Committee concludes that poverty is only getting worse on the islands. If the Minister now says that all we are doing is in fact combating poverty, while the Spies Committee finds that this does not lead to a reduction in poverty, then we must conclude that everything we are doing does not have the effect that we are aiming for. I think that most of them are not directly focused on poverty reduction, that other good things are being done, but that there is a lot stuck in the apparatus, which does not bring about the desired reduction in poverty. That requires a different approach. Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u236	Mr Van Laar notes that there is a lot of sticking to the device. Next thing you know, the impression is that the money on the islands is being spent on what Mr Van Laar calls "the device." We are, of course, trying to use the resources as much as possible in good consultation with the local government in an effective way. When I arrived four years ago, I found, as I said, the historically understandable situation in itself, that there was too much administrative pressure on the islands. We have reduced this and made it much more streamlined, reduced travel and kept the device to a minimum. But to build the schools on Bonaire as they were built there, of course someone has to go to Bonaire to make sure that it happens neatly. I am really trying to do this, and I know that my colleagues from the various departments are also doing everything they can to spend as much on primary expenditure as possible and to let it go as little as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u237	Does Mr Van Laar think he can add a new element at the moment? We are now really repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u238	The point is that this is not at the heart of the question. The question is: if all we do is fight poverty, how can poverty not fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u239	Ultimately, everything is indirect poverty reduction. That is not a direct fight against poverty. If you improve the roads there, you can say that no one gets a bite to eat on their plate. However, if it is a neglected mess there, if the airport is not good and has insufficient capacity, if the roads are not attractive and if the houses are not well organized, then this indirectly contributes to the image of neglect, to lagging behind economic development and as a result to poverty. I admit, however, that this is circumstantial and not direct. In Jan Pronk's statement I mentioned, that is the difference between fish and pole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u240	I am so afraid that we are now going to repeat all kinds of things. If Mr Amhaouch is sure that he does not, he will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u241	I'm not repeating so quickly. I'd like to continue with this. I agree with the Minister that we should go as far as possible for that rod. Also the CDA always wants to give that rod first and then maybe a bit of fish as well. I took a look at the child support. There was a motion on that at the time. The question is whether the current frame of reference is sufficient. Is that soil enough? On the islands, child benefit is 40 dollars a month while the minimum wage is 900 dollars. That's a 4.4% ratio. In the Netherlands, child benefit is about €80 per month per child compared to a minimum wage of €1,500. That's a ratio of almost 6%. The question to the Minister is whether the reference framework, for example for child benefit, has been properly assessed. Or should we take another step in this respect? I can imagine that the amount of $150 in Mr Van Laar's motion at the time is out of proportion or too large, although we did support that motion. Can the Minister say whether the minimum that we now apply to family allowances and other matters is reasonable for combating child poverty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u242	In order to prepare for this debate, I have read in a few minutes; for example, I have reread the Acts on this motion, so I am now very keen on the retina. I said at the time that I had reservations about raising child benefit, because according to my colleague from SZW, who has portfolio responsibility for this, that is not the most effective way to combat poverty there. He was also concerned that this would lead to the wrong incentives, because it would make it even more attractive for fathers to have children without taking responsibility for them. Again, that was all my valuation back then. As Mr Van Laar attached to it, I said I would examine it further. I reported on this in writing. My first impression was also my second impression: it would not be wise to do so. I shared that with the room. If the Chamber or Mr Amhaouch would like to deepen the relationship between family allowances and income from work, I would refer, in my coordinating role, to the Social Affairs budget, which will be on the table within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u243	I know that the Ministry of Social Affairs is working on a social minimum, but that is far below what is necessary to meet the basic needs. That's going to be $500 or $600, which is far too little. The House of Representatives has asked for a minimum social level to be established on the basis of the real cost of living. The First Chamber has also adopted a motion for a resolution on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u244	I understand this question, but I have already answered it. I'm referring to what I just said. In fact, the cabinet intends to introduce the social minimum and to link it to a percentage of the minimum wage in the person of the social affairs executive. That's new. If you wish to have a further debate on this with the govern ment in question, you will soon be able to do so in this theatre when the Social Affairs budget is discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u245	That is 70%, a percentage that is far from sufficient. That is the concern of the Second and First Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u246	I didn't communicate that percentage. But this is really up to the colleague involved, the portfolio holder on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u247	I don't think it makes any sense to hear ten more times now that this minister says you should be with someone else. Can the Minister finish the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u248	Yes. I have three more speakers. Mr Fritsma always raises this issue in principle. I was inspired by him in my introduction. I know we look at this differently. We have had a discussion on Article 73 of the United Nations Charter. More specifically, he asked whether I can guarantee that the Dutch taxpayer will not pay for failure on the islands by debt restructuring. I would like to stress once again that public finances are a matter of country. That's gotta be really clear. Financial supervision has now also been established in all four countries of the Kingdom, including the Netherlands. Mr Pechtold has asked many questions. Some of them have already been discussed in the course of an interruption or in my general section, including the issue of election observation. I made a commitment on that. We have not yet discussed the competition authority. I did write about this in the letter. The cabinet wonders whether the establishment of the competition authority in the islands is desirable and feasible given the size of the market. However, the Cabinet is prepared to support competition and consumer protection issues at the request of the public authorities. At the end of this year, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is launching an investigation into the price level in the Caribbean Netherlands. This is important in order to understand the price level and, in particular, to identify the causes of the price increases since the transition. The three islands will be considered separately, so that local initiatives, such as the success of the first-needs cooperative mentioned by the evaluation committee at a reasonable price on Bonaire, will also be taken into account. On the basis of the results of the investigation, follow-up steps in the field of competition and pricing policy will be discussed with public sector bodies' administrative colleges. Then I come to the funding of the National Ombudsman. There have been contacts with the National Ombudsman on funding and tasks. I will take the results into account in the usual budgetary cycle. I will inform the Chamber on occasion. We have had that debate before, by the way. I have always pointed out to the Ombudsman that the institution is responsible for the whole of the Netherlands, including the Caribbean Netherlands, within the existing budget. To those who tend to say that they would like things to be done in the Caribbean Netherlands, I say: it is beautiful and right that you want them to be done, but in principle this must be done within the existing budget. Anyway, I made a procedural commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u249	Mr Pechtold, can you keep your question for the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u250	I'll be very brief, because we'll be done with it right away. Does the Minister agree that there is a need to increase awareness of this in the islands? Would he be willing to help me increase that fame there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u251	Yeah, that sounds like a good idea. In the next consultation with the boards, I will consider how best to pour that into the barrel. That's what I'm telling you. It has been asked whether I can look together with my colleague from VWS at the arrangements for insane care. Mr Pechtold already pointed out that that word no longer fits in with the Netherlands. The March 2016 report of the Health Inspectorate states that the law has not yet been adapted to the requirements of the present time due to legislative restraint. However, that should not be a reason not to do so at that point. I am therefore prepared to discuss with VWS whether we can take a step on this issue in consultation with the public authorities and the other departments concerned. A painful point in all respects is the use of corporal punishment in the Caribbean Netherlands. That's still happening there. How is this included in the Children's Rights Action Plan? Part of this is deep. It is, in part, traditionally anchored: whoever loves his children does not spare the rod. It's a horrible way of saying things. Not so long ago, corporal punishment existed in the European Netherlands as well. They are not explicitly prohibited in the home situation. However, under the Code of Criminal Law, BES is prohibited from mistreatment, where abuse of one's own child is a criminal offence. It starts with changing the norm. To this end, we work with UNICEF. You can make a rule somewhere, but that doesn't help you much, because you're not there when someone gives a corrective tap. In fact, it should be made clear in the family guidance that this is not the intention. Nils Karstberg, the former regional director of UNICEF, has already travelled to Saba and Statia three times to play an active role in condemning violence against children, together with the Church leaders and schools, who can get close to people and the domestic situation. Parents are motivated by him to discipline children in a different, non-violent way. He has already spoken with all the ecclesiastical and religious leaders in the Windward Islands. He also addressed the children and teachers in the schools. He also gave radio interviews et cetera to try to do something about it. We are working with UNICEF to see if we can enter this in other ways in the Caribbean Netherlands. I therefore fully share Mr Pechtold's concerns. Questions have been asked about renewable energy. Minister Kamp recently visited the Caribbean Netherlands. He spoke extensively there about sustainable development and renewable energy. If you're interested in tidal energy, solar energy, wind energy and geothermal energy, where do you start? Of course not here in the Randstad, but in the Caribbean Netherlands. During working visits to Saba and Statia I have also seen projects in which they are working. Minister Kamp has recently been there and has opened a more economical power plant on Saba. At Statia, the Minister opened a solar field, which can generate 89% of the electricity for the island at peak times. So that is extremely lucrative and interesting. Work is under way on a second sunbathing area on Statia. In doing so, we strongly cooperate with strategic partners from the Dutch field, including the University of Wageningen. I will see with the Minister of EZ whether we can further support that. The starting point is that we do this in close cooperation with the island authorities and local stakeholders, such as nature conservation organisations active there. Can there be access to Dutch renewable energy schemes? The Ministry and the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands are working on this very strongly at the moment. However, I will also pass on the question to my colleague from the Economic Affairs Committee. By the way, there are many arrangements. EZ and RVO, together with BZK and BZ, look at many of these schemes, whether they cannot be streamlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u252	Can I ask when, if that question is passed on, we will get an answer to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u253	I can imagine that question. When I say "before the end of the calendar year," do I see big scare reactions? I don't believe it, so here's what I'm saying. Then I come to the climate resilience for which the primary responsibility lies with the Ministry of I and M. In collaboration with this, we look at the island challenge in relation to climate change. In December of this year, BZK will organise the first Caribbean sustainable development forum. Its aim is to better and innovatively address the consequences of climate change through regional cooperation. The Ministry of I and M, which is leading the way, cooperates with the islands on issues such as waste and also seeks to connect with private partners in cooperation projects. I should like to hear Mr Bishop, who is no longer merely mentally present, but also physically present. He's the last one I'll have to answer any questions from, in other words. We have talked extensively about security in the block about crime, corruption and so on. I also took the opportunity to express my displeasure at the fact that the integrity room has been left behind. I have just responded to questions about the Coast Guard. On Venezuela, we had both a plenary debate and a general discussion last week with the Minister for Economic Affairs, in which we discussed the Dutch position in detail. I should also like to refer to this in view of the clock. I think I have answered all the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u254	Thank you very much. I'll take a look around. There is a need for a second deadline. I propose that we complete the debate before dinner break. That does mean we're gonna suspend for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u255	I would like to resume the sitting and give Mr Van Raak the floor first in the second term. I would ask Members if they have any interruptions to keep them brief and businesslike.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u256	Mr. Chairman. I look forward to good cooperation with the new government of Curaçao and with those of Saint Martin, but I also look forward to continuing research into the gambling industry. I believe that everyone here is convinced that good politics can only be achieved if the wrong money disappears from the islands. We have beautiful islands with Bonaire, Saba and Statia that are part of the Netherlands. They are islands with great potential, but they are also islands with deep poverty. I don't think we can accept that. People need to be able to meet basic needs, people need to be able to provide livelihoods. That is why I would like to table the next motion with Mr Van Laar. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is going to significantly increase the under stand;]] [[Whereas, even after the increase, the level of support is still insufficient to meet basic needs;]] [[calls on the Government not to call the increased under stand a social minimum and to set the social minimum on the basis of the cost of living,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-IV-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u257	I also welcome the Minister's commitment that he will also talk to the Curaçao Government about tackling illegal gambling. I'm convinced that most of the wrong money, most of the criminal money, comes from there. I hope that the Minister will take good note of this new government and see if the monitoring of these gambling sites can be improved. I hope we can also see if it is possible to close those sites if those gambling sites are used to launder criminal money. I hope that this kind of agreement will also be possible with the Government of Saint Martin. I wish the Minister every success, and I hope he will also inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u258	Mr. Chairman. The VVD has talked a lot about the future of the Kingdom and about Article 73 of the UN Charter. I'm just gonna get a little bit out of there. The introduction states that 'to this end' and 'to develop self-government'. That is Article 73 of the UN Charter. The Statute has been used here as an interim solution. We're halfway there. So we're not at the end of that decolonization, because we're not there yet. There is no full self-government yet; this needs to be addressed. For the VVD, this means that you don't have to pull your hands off that, but you have to lead people to that entire self-government, to that independence. As far as the VVD is concerned, this can also be done in a commonwealth. I'm here to talk about the quick scan. It got a little more fuzzy for me than the letter made me think. When is a quickscan actually done? Is it an amount, is it a contact with a country, who takes action and who is informed about it? This gives a responsibility to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, especially in our relationship with Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. It gives a direct link to the Dutch responsibility. I'd like to see a transmission of the quickscan. You can keep that confidential. I would also like to hear an answer to the question whether the MoU was at Curaçao. That reply may also be given in writing. I very much welcome the commitment that election observation will be discussed in the National Council of Ministers. I think this is important. I sincerely hope that the colleagues from Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin will be enthusiastic about this, because that is important for everyone. Ultimately, as the Netherlands, we have no control over what is happening in the countries of the Caribbean. If the democratically elected parliaments make choices far from what the Netherlands considers desirable, then we must also be able to distance ourselves from each other. Not push away, but together towards independence! You can do that in a commonwealth. With the Statute we are at half the decolonization. It's time we finish the second half now. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, after 1945, the United Nations launched a process of decolonization and the Charter of this international organisation is based on the development of self-government for those areas which do not yet have full self-government;]] [[noting that the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands was a step in the decolonization process in 1954;]] [[noting that Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are, on the one hand, autonomous countries within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, but, on the other hand, part of that same Kingdom of the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands was not the ultimate objective and is to respect the full self-determination of all countries within the Kingdom;]] [[Calls on the Government, with the United Nations, to cooperate with Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, to reach a final fulfilment of the right of self-determination of all the countries of the Kingdom and the Chamber before 1 July 2017 on the outcome of that consultation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bosman and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-IV-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u259	Mr Bosman did not say anything about the Caribbean Netherlands in the first term or in the second. That is in itself crazy, because we are talking about a budget with more than 30 million in funds going to the Caribbean Netherlands. Was that because of lack of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u260	I have given priority to the Statute, the future of the Kingdom and the countries within it. I know that my colleagues at the VVD often take action differently on the relevant portfolios where the Caribbean parts of the Netherlands are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u261	In general terms, the Minister said that all we are doing there is combating poverty. When Mr Bosman looks at the use of resources, does he think that this is the best way to combat poverty, and we do not need to change it anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u262	Mr Van Laar knows my view that it is mainly the responsibility of local authorities. I think that we should put the local authorities much more into their power. Saba's just gonna make it and she's doing it in a really good way. I welcome the fact that we are discussing it here, and we have done so several times. When you see that these countries are becoming more and more able to save themselves, give them more space. That's what I'm all for. We must give much less guidance from this house, because what we do here is always counterproductive. I've said that before. All three islands are different. What we consider important here often does not correspond to what they find there. I call the discussion about nature. They have a very different picture than we do. I believe that local authorities should be able to take their responsibilities there. They must be able to determine what they consider important: housing, infrastructure, schools or poverty reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u263	We are talking about the budget today. More than 30 million in wealth goes to the Caribbean Netherlands through this budget, to achieve results there. When you speak to the local authorities, they all say the same thing: fight poverty. Make sure people have a sandwich to eat. Do you think that this budget is an adequate response to this? At least the local authorities don't think so. You say they're leading. Then something has to be changed, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u264	It's often about money, when there's a lot of locals. I think people should see what they can solve locally. Whether agriculture or fisheries, economic development is much more important. The economic opportunities on Saba are different than on Bonaire and again different on Saint-Eustatius. The potential of Saint-Eustatius is very great. NowStar pays 60% of the budget there. If they do it in a smart way, they can come a long way with it. However, it is the local government that is responsible for this. When you see that the local administration of Saint-Eustatius is making a mess of things, you can say that more money has to go. But no, it needs to be handled administratively. That's the point. Local government will then be able to fulfil its responsibility to combat poverty. But this must be done by taking locally economically responsible actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u265	Mr. Chairman. As we said at first, Caribbean Netherlands, but also the other countries, deserve more attention than they get. They are countries within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. In particular, the three municipalities in the Caribbean have clearly called for attention to be paid to the problem of poverty. The question is also very important: how can we put the people on the islands and also the authorities in their power to take structural care of themselves? The Minister has made promises. We had a motion ready, but we are not submitting it. The Minister has promised to look critically at the late maintenance and to map it. We like to hear what it is and how much it costs. We ask him, in particular, to inform the Chamber and to seek structural solutions for the future. If we are going to make investments, what does that mean for the operation and the capital costs? Is that to be financed? If that is not the case, we should take a critical look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u266	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer in the first term. We have been able to discuss a great deal in that regard. We are particularly grateful for the answers on the approach of the Isla refinery. It may take longer than everyone hoped, but now it seems that a solid trajectory has been put in place. That is really going to have to lead to results. The Minister was clear about what would happen if Curaçao stopped that route and stopped working on improvement there. In the first place, we have called for attention to be paid to the fight against poverty in the Caribbean Netherlands, and I would like to come back to that, also in connection with the debate. The Labour Party does not think that there is too little money going to the Caribbean Netherlands, but we do see a lack of impact in terms of poverty reduction. The Spies Committee concludes that poverty is not falling, but that it is even increasing. Then we must consider how we use these resources. We have tried this in various ways, and we have already tried to do so in motions for resolutions. In my first term, I also asked for specific attention to be paid to the position of girls, because they are particularly disadvantaged. I hope that the Minister will pass on the question to his colleague in Social Affairs to look at it in terms of the use of that extra million, but also in terms of the use of the Spiesgeld. How can we ensure that girls benefit at least equally and even a little more if we can? We also believe that income support should be considered. We have tabled motions on this matter before. The Minister referred to the Social Affairs budget. In order to ensure that we can have a proper discussion there, I shall table a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that single parents in the Caribbean Netherlands who work full-time and earn the minimum wage do not have a living income;]] [[noting that many children in the Caribbean Netherlands grow up in families with no viable income;]] [[believes that children in the Netherlands should not grow up in families without viable income;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the time-limit for the introduction of a child-related budget in the Caribbean Netherlands, the bottlenecks to be foreseen at the time of its introduction and the cost of implementing such a scheme, and to inform the Court of Justice about this for the 2017 budget of Social Affairs and Employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Laar, Schouten, Amhaouch, Van Raak and Pechtold.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-IV-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u267	Mr. Chairman. I repeat that the cabinet has not made any progress in resolving the problems in the former Netherlands Antilles. Corruption, financial maladministration and political chaos continue to reign. Unfortunately, that has not changed and the PVV Group does not think that will change either. What can change is that we ensure that the Netherlands and the Dutch taxpayer no longer suffer from it and that we ensure that we can say goodbye to those islands. For this, however, it is necessary to enable the Dutch people to make that choice. That's very important. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is imprisoned in a duty of care for the former Netherlands Antilles, which can only be undone by the inhabitants of these former colonies;]] [[Whereas the population of the Netherlands should be concerned with its own future;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the population of the Netherlands is given the right to unilaterally break current ties with the former Netherlands Antilles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-IV-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u268	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to free payment. I would also like to get a commitment on this MoU that is about to be closed with the Chinese about the refinery in Curaçao. I would very much like to hear from the Minister that he is using that moment to check that too. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas economic development and poverty reduction are lagging behind in the Caribbean Netherlands and a concrete and coherent proposal is still lacking;]] [[calls on the government, together with the islands, as part of the multiannual programmes, to draw up an integrated agenda for socio-economic development with concrete plans for at least sustainable growth, a well-functioning labour market, a reduction in the cost of living and a solid social safety net,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are many doubts about the deal with the Aruban refinery;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the financial, geopolitical and environmental risks of the deal for the Kingdom and to inform the Court of the results before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-IV-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-IV-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u269	Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that I have now received all the motions, except those of Mr Pechtold. About his motions, I'll run a quick scan. I can almost confine myself to addressing the motions, but I still have a few substantive comments to make. During the suspension I agreed that in reply to Mr Van Laar's questions I was perhaps a little too optimistic about the current administrative situation at Statia. Mr Van Laar expressed concern about this. I have referred to the fact that there has been a temporary under-supervision but that it will now be back on track. However, I would like to take this opportunity to correct myself on this point. We are still very concerned about the situation on the ground. Mr Van Raak has asked another question about gambling. He asked if I would agree that I would also raise the issue of gambling on Saint Martin and Curaçao. That's what I'm telling you. Both Mr Bosman and Mr Pechtold spoke about the Curaçao MoU. As far as I know, there's been no reason to run a quick scan on that. That's the situation. This, of course, raises the question of when a quickscan is done and when not. However, this is strictly a question for the Department of Foreign Affairs. What exactly are the criteria for this? When is a quick scan done and when isn't it? I will pass that question on to the Foreign Minister with the suggestion that we should return to it on occasion, perhaps when the budget is being discussed. I can well imagine that question being asked. Mr Van Laar has asked me to pass on to my colleague from SZW the point of disadvantage for girls. That's what I'm telling you. I think I can now move on to discussing the motions. The first motion, in part No. 9, by Mr Van Raak, on the introduction of a social minimum. That motion is really moving in the direction of my colleague from SZW. I do not have the room on behalf of the cabinet to suggest that it is up to us or whether we want to leave the opinion to the Chamber. I would really recommend that this motion be retained until the SZW budget, so that the managing director can give an opinion to the Chamber on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u270	We don't have to vote today, but only Tuesday in a week, so we have plenty of time. I imagine there will be an opinion on paper from the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u271	I'm gonna have to pass on that question. You may wish to discuss this, but that can still be done when the Social Affairs budget is being discussed. It seemed as if Mr Bosman in the first term...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u272	For the sake of clarity, you will therefore undertake to ask your colleague to answer the question of the appreciation of this motion before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u273	That's correct. If that happens, we'll have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u274	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u275	I'll come to the motion in part No. 10 by Mr Bosman and Mr Van Raak. In the first term, we had a fundamental discussion on the final objective. We have not agreed on this. On this occasion, however, I would also like to point out that Mr Bosman has on every occasion given extremely constructive and loyal support to the government's policy. He says he actually wants to go to another constellation, but that there is no such constellation yet and he will therefore go along with it. I am grateful to him for that, and that also means that I want to see to the utmost whether I can indicate the only motion he has tabled in such a way that I could leave it to the Chamber. As the Netherlands, I am against asking the United Nations for a different interpretation of the right of self-determination without knowing whether the other countries support it. If I may read the motion in such a way that I will first consult with the other countries to see if I can speak on behalf of the Kingdom if I take that step, I would like to do so in that order and I could leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber. I therefore maintain the position that I have taken in the first term, but I also see that it is ultimately a matter of consultation and that no final conclusion is yet put forward in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u276	No, correct. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to go into consultation with Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, but it does not mean that it is a veto of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. It does not mean that we would not be able to enter into talks with the UN if they say no. In principle, the Netherlands is responsible. The Netherlands is written in article 73 and not Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. It's up to the Netherlands. We are counting on us in the UN Charter and I believe that we should also be able to engage in this discussion. The Minister can tell Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin to be aware that he is going to discuss this. He also discusses this with them openly, but we need to see where we come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u277	In any case, we do not agree on the final objective. That is possible, because I believe that the present state relations in themselves are also sensible for the countries on the other side of the ocean. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u278	We've had that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u279	We've had that discussion. Moving me to Mr Bosman's desire to change those stately relations, it seems to me to be an opportunityless exercise when I turn to the United Nations. There are three letters from the governments of Curaçao, Saint Martin and Aruba saying that the Minister of Kingdom Relations is now willing to do so, but that they are opposed to it. Then it will be said at the United Nations that the former colonies of course do not feel that way, and the conversation will also be very brief. Even if you want to go to those other state relations as the VVD insists, I still think it is important to make sure, as Minister of Kingdom Relations, that the other countries in the Kingdom do not find it difficult for you to engage in that conversation with the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u280	In the end, I also want to know from the UN whether we are permanently responsible for Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. Is that an everlasting treaty? I don't think so. Spain dominated us 500 years ago and we no longer have any recovery payments there. In the end, therefore, there is a limit, especially if countries choose their own parliament and their own path in a democratic way, which is becoming increasingly distant from our own. Then we have to be able to separate somewhere: or intervene and move in or make independent in common. In the end, the UN can simply say: no, the Netherlands, for the next 1,000 years you are still responsible. That is what I would like to know, because then we will also know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u281	My expectation is that between 1,000 years and now there are still all kinds of shades of grey and that the United Nations... But let me not anticipate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u282	No, but the question is as follows. Mr Bosman has clearly put aside your interpretation of the motion. What are you doing with this motion? What's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u283	I'm trying to make sense of the fact... you're going very fast now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u284	Sometimes it has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u285	I am trying to meet Mr Bosman. If I may read the motion in such a way that I first enter into consultation with the other countries on the question "if I turn to the United Nations, will you send letters on high feet that it is a great shame and that this should not happen, or are you prepared to face the fact that I am going to have that conversation?', I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. If the operative part is "it doesn't matter what other countries think of it, the Netherlands goes to the United Nations to build a time horizon into a treaty that doesn't have such a horizon," I don't think it's such a meaningful exercise. If I have to read the motion like that, I'm gonna advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u286	I am prepared to do the two-stage rocket offered by the Minister, but I would like to hear when the Minister thinks he has spoken to Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. Then I'm willing to hold my motion. After the talks with Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin I hear from the Minister. After that, I can always put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u287	I appreciate that. The government isn't even there yet on St.Maarten and Curaçao, but perhaps the turn of the year is a reasonable time to report on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u288	At the request of Mr Bosman, I propose his motion (34550-IV, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u289	The Minister shall inform the Chamber of 31 December next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u290	In the motion-Van Laar c.s. in piece No. 11 is asked to examine the time frame for introducing a child-related budget in the Caribbean Netherlands. In this way, the proposers already make a statement: the question is not whether it will be introduced, but when. If that is the operative part of the motion, I would suggest that we hold the motion until the debate on the Social Affairs budget, so that we can actually do the same thing as Mr Van Raak's motion for a resolution, so that the Social Affairs colleague can discuss with the Chamber in the debate whether it is sensible to introduce the child budget and what its consequences are. Now the Chamber is asking the government to do so: to answer Mr Klijnsma's portfolio in order to answer the question of how long it will be able to do so, without having been able to debate this issue with the cabinet. I can imagine that the motion will be held for this reason until after the discussion of the Social Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u291	In response to a previous motion, the cabinet said that child benefit is unfocused and benefits all families, not just poor families. The child-related budget will. In order to be able to weigh up what is desired, we will need to know the time frame for introducing a child-related budget if the Court is to decide on this after the examination of the SZW budget. That's how you read the motion. So we ask the Cabinet to inform us: can this be done as of 1 January 2017 if we decide this, or in mid-2017 or only in 2018, what costs should we think of and weigh those costs against the cost of child benefit leaking, etc.? That's how the motion should be read.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u292	That sheds a new light on it. I assume that the text will be retained. It seems to me that I can read the motion in such a way that where it states the time at which it can be introduced, I can read: could be. The decision to introduce it is still open. If I may read the motion in this way, it seems to me that I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u293	I can see from Mr Van Laar's non-verbal reaction that you can read the motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u294	Thank you. In fact, Mr Van Laar had already said it verbally in his speech. I come to Mr Fritsma's motion. 12. I believe that on another occasion we discussed a similar motion by Mr Bosma. We don't agree on this. It will not surprise Mr Fritsma that I am abstaining on the motion with reference to the good substantive discussion that we have had on this issue. There are two motions by Mr Pechtold. In the first motion, which in part No. 13, calls for a coherent agenda as part of the multiannual programmes. That's what we're doing. I therefore reject the fact that there is no coherent proposal. We have made a multi-annual programme in good consultation with the public authorities, which we also update and update annually during the CN week. So what's in the motion, we're already doing. I do not intend to do anything else at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u295	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u296	It doesn't seem like the motion adds anything, so I'm deceiving the motion. But again: not because I am opposed to a coherent plan, because we have that coherent plan. That there are doubts about the deal with the Aruban refinery, as stated in Mr Pechtold's second motion, which is part of No. 14, seems to me to be a judgment that does not belong to the Dutch Government. Nor is it for the Dutch Government to have research conducted. I have pointed out that, and we have discussed it extensively, the financial implications for the budget and the budget of Aruba will, of course, be assessed by the CAft. That seems to me to be the constellation in which that has to be assessed. I would not like to enter into an independent investigation in parallel. I do not think that is wise with regard to the role of the CAft. I also advise against that motion. Then I've discussed all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-16.u297	I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and the Members for their active input. I propose to vote on the first Tuesday after recess.
