ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are going back from the Rules of Procedure to legislation, and we are going back to special legislation, because it is a matter of national legislation and we do not have so many national laws. If I have counted correctly, there are five consensual laws binding the other countries in the Kingdom. This will not be a consensus law, but it will be a state law. This law aims to make it possible for the National Council of Ministers to agree to European sanctions and to make them binding on the other countries of the Kingdom. The Labour Party shares the government's view that it is important that sanctions are implemented throughout the Kingdom. This is desirable for the unity of external relations and for the effectiveness of European sanctions. A sanction measure may have different consequences for the Caribbean countries than for the Netherlands, and this could lead to a conflict or dispute between the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom and the European Netherlands. In my contribution today, I will express those concerns in particular. It took quite a while for this bill to come on the agenda. Have there been any developments since the bill was offered? Is Curaçao, for example, still opposed to this proposal? Has Curaçao actually taken over the sanctions against Russia or is it still not? I also have two questions on the note on the report. The Minister replied that, in terms of both regulation and application, the Netherlands would provide assistance to the countries or perhaps already do so. What does this assistance look like? Can countries always claim this assistance, even if there are conflicts in other areas? So far, the government has often tied up requests for aid from countries with other ongoing discussions. The Minister also replied that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is open to suggestions from the countries to further improve the coordination procedure. The process of dealing with the bill has therefore been stalled for more than a year now. What further work has been done at that time to improve this coordination procedure? The PvdA Group is therefore concerned about how disputes that will arise as a result of this law will be dealt with. There is no mention of this in the law in any way. Countries will be involved in the determination of the position of the Netherlands, but this obligation to coordinate has yet to be developed. Has the protocol on the coordination procedure already been finalised? If so, can the other countries agree to this protocol? If not, does the Minister intend to reach consensus with the other countries within the Kingdom before adopting the Protocol? How can the countries concerned address violations of this protocol? What if they are not informed in good time, fully or correctly? In what way can they be heard? Can they also block the agreement of the Netherlands to sanctions if the protocol is not followed? Where can countries go if their input is not sufficiently taken into account and they are faced with sanctions that are very detrimental to them and that are disproportionately harsh to them? For example, the impact of travel restrictions on Latin American countries can be considered. With a possible President Trump, sanctions against the United States are not unthinkable either. I am also thinking of the consequences of sanctions against Venezuela, especially if they affect the oil trade. Such sanctions could cost the countries of our Kingdom tens of percent of their gross national product. Where can they go if the Netherlands decides to agree to sanctions, despite their objections? The only provision they can rely on is the provision in the Staff Regulations that there will be a dispute settlement, but it is still not there. Is the Minister prepared to look with the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations at how the National Sanctions Act can be properly implemented under the functioning of a dispute settlement system? A good way is for the Labour Party to do justice to both the purpose of the law and the interests of the other countries within the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	I would like to ask the PvdA Group about the disproportionate effect of sanctions on a country such as Curaçao. The PvdA Group is always deeply concerned about the sanctions that have been imposed against Russia and is always in favour of increasing those sanctions in the Chamber. The Netherlands is a country that is 70% to 80% dependent on oil and gas imports, when it comes to our bilateral trade relationship with Russia. So I would say: if one country could be disproportionately affected by this type of sanctions, it is the Netherlands. However, I understand that Mr Van Laar is mainly concerned about the islands, in this case Curaçao with the Isla refinery. Does Mr Van Laar not think that this is disproportionate, that he is here as a Dutch representative in favour of heavier sanctions against Russia and at the same time calls for attention to be paid to the possible future effects of heavier sanctions on a country such as Curaçao?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	We need to look closely at how legislation works out for all concerned, in this case the countries concerned. As the House of Representatives, we are a bit of the Kingdom Parliament. We don't have a Kingdom Parliament, but this is where national laws are passed. So we need to look here at how this legislation works out for the different countries in the Kingdom. The Netherlands is a much larger country than the small countries in the Caribbean. Curaçao has less than 150,000 inhabitants and has important relations with a very small number of countries. The Netherlands has a lot of trade relations with a lot of countries and will therefore never be strongly affected if sanctions are imposed against one country. In that case, the GDP will never blow down by 10%. However, this situation may arise in, for example, Curaçao. That is why we ask: how do we deal with that? We are not asking that question to stop it, but to address it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Labour Party considers it all very sad for Curaçao that it may be badly affected. On the other hand, Venezuela's insane financial and economic policy itself is primarily a cause for the islands to worry about the economy. Future sanctions can only contribute to this. I would ask Mr Van Laar to pay particular attention to Dutch interests. For example, the Netherlands has an interest in unity of government policy, especially with regard to foreign policy, and certainly with a blunt weapon as sanctions. A party such as the PvdA, which so often advocates sanctions, especially with regard to Russia, will only benefit if everyone acts together. If Mr Van Laar is going to say exceptions for Curaçao or for any island, or if he is even going to understand them, then he is undermining his own position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	I share Mr Ten Broeke's concerns about the policy being pursued in Venezuela, as well as his concerns about sanctions policy. That is why we said at the beginning of our speech that we support the law and the idea behind the law, but that does not mean that the law must be put together in such a way that countries cannot go anywhere if a dispute arises. Decisions must be taken carefully. This cabinet and previous Cabinets have sometimes taken a short turn when it comes to procedures relating to conflicts with other countries in the Kingdom. However, it is important that a careful procedure is laid down in the Protocol and that a dispute settlement procedure may be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. At least now we are here to deal with a real legislative proposal. We in the committee regularly discuss this: when can we debate a legislative proposal in plenary? Today that is the case. Eleven years ago, the people of Curaçao went to the ballot box in the context of a referendum, on which the politicians of Curaçao agreed at the time, unlike our own consultative referendum on 6 April, that the outcome would be binding. 68% of the voters chose to leave the Antilles and make Curaçao an autonomous country within our Kingdom. This decision meant that Curaçao would accept the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands, as the Curaçao PAR Group correctly stated in the report on the legislative proposal, the desires and the burdens associated with it. As provided for in Article 3 of the Staff Regulations, external relations are governed by the Kingdom. I leave it to you to decide whether these are desires or burdens. However, I would point out that the islands also enjoy the desire of collective defence by the Netherlands for the burden of common foreign policy, a lust made possible by the Dutch taxpayer. The National Sanctions Act now before us would not have been necessary if the autonomous countries, including Curaçao, had properly adapted their own sanctioning country regulations, or, more simply, simply adopted the EU sanctions. The countries of Aruba and Sint Maarten have now completed their national routes, but in Curaçao the States have rejected a draft country regulation for this purpose. As a result, a sanction law at the state level is the only remaining means to ensure that Curaçao takes over the EU sanctions and that the foreign policy of the Netherlands and the European Union remains guaranteed. The VVD Group has therefore taken note with surprise of the report by the States of Curaçao. For example, the MFF, which is the party of the convicted ex-premier and the current state member Schotte, claims that "Curaçao itself should be able to decide to take sanctions against other countries." Take the MAN Group, which says that there is, of course, yet another "arrogant proposal." We've heard that before. Both groups do not care much about the fact that the country has committed itself to the Statute, thanks to a binding opinion of 68% of its own population, I would add. And so it's simple: you're part of the Kingdom and then you stick to the Statute, or you go out and then you're free to conduct your own foreign policy. I am already looking forward to Curaçao's candidacy for the UN Security Council. Sanctions against countries that distort the international legal order or even commit terrorism are a serious weapon. We all know that. It is rarely used and it is also not always effective. If that blunt weapon is to be used, it will only work if the European Union and the Kingdom show complete unity in it. I have already mentioned this in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Laar. We cannot allow another execution within the Kingdom. This would make the Kingdom particularly vulnerable and delegitimate, thereby damaging the international position of our Kingdom. As far as my group is concerned, the National Sanctions Act has nothing, but nothing at all, to do with an attempt to impose our will on the partner countries within the Kingdom out of show of power. The opposite is the case. We agree on a legal order which should be equally important for all of us, for example in the international fight against terrorism. It is only an implementation of the Staff Regulations. We have just signed this Statute in accordance with the wishes of the islands. We have unity of foreign policy. That is how we agreed to do it, and that is in everyone's favour. Let there be no misunderstanding: our government still takes account of the countries, by consulting them, approaching them and informing them on time. So I think all of Mr Van Laar's concerns are well addressed. Everything's being cut to size. Curaçao chooses his own friends. Sometimes the question is whether it always does so with the same care. You can say the same thing about some of the members of the States. But that's not the issue right now. The issue is whether a country should have the space to pursue its own foreign policy. We say no. Moreover, we never hear the islands complain if the Netherlands guarantees their defence. When we talk about the lusts and the burdens, some Curaçao statesmen seem to forget that very quickly. So it doesn't work like that: it's in or out, it's in, it's in, it's in, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out, it's out. As long as Curaçao is an autonomous country within the Kingdom, it will have to adhere to the Statute and thus to the unity of foreign policy, if necessary.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I would have preferred not to discuss him, but it's nice that we can do it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. With this bill for a National Sanctions Act, the government wants the sanctions that have been imposed at EU level to continue working in the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom. European Union sanctions must also be applied to Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. These are sanctions against individuals, such as freezing assets and travel and visa restrictions, and sanctions against countries, such as trade restrictions. I read in the government's documents that the proposed National Sanctions Act must guarantee the unity of the Kingdom's foreign policy. However, it seems that Curaçao wants to pursue its own foreign policy. We would not have had to stand here today if Curaçao, like Saint Martin and Aruba, had simply amended its own sanction regulation. Unlike those two islands, Curaçao chose in 2014 to reject the Penalty Act, which means that today, after all, we have to deal with and perhaps introduce this bill in the form of a National Sanctions Act. The PVV would like to know how the government of the Netherlands assesses Curaçao's actions. Surely the cabinet cannot confine itself to saying that it is Curaçao's autonomous power to reject a sanction law? Curaçao's actions have put a lot of civil servants here in the Netherlands to prepare this bill. My group would like to know what the Minister's views are now on this Curaçao action, on Curaçao's own and undesirable action? There are also costs involved. Officials were put to work, the Council of State had to work, the Minister and the Chamber had to work on it, and soon the First Chamber will have to work on it. All this is undesirable and not necessary as far as the PVV is concerned. On Curaçao the aversion against the meddling of the Netherlands is great. I place "intruderism" in this connection between quotes. Curaçao apparently wants to continue to receive financial contributions and loans from the Netherlands, but is not prepared to play into line with the Netherlands when it comes to sanctions against villains. You can expect from an island like Curaçao any loyalty to the hand it nourishes. In addition to Dutch money, Curaçao also receives financial support from the European Union with the European Development Fund. For 2007-2013 alone, the EU provided the then Netherlands Antilles with 24 million euros of which just over 11 million euros was for Curaçao. They're not celestially shocking amounts, but still. The message that I am sending here is: getting money from the Netherlands and the European Union, but rejecting the Sanction Act in 2014 shows that Curaçao ultimately has something to do with us. This is not the first time that Curaçao has unilaterally rejected sanctions against Iran in 2012.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	The attitude of Curaçao within the Kingdom is somewhat similar to that of the PVV Group in relation to European foreign policy. May I have a brief comment from Mr De Roon on the following? He says that he considers the unity of foreign policy so important, but he is in fact always opposed to the unity of sanctions of the European Union, the only means we have of foreign policy in Europe, except when it suits him. What is the difference between Curaçao's action in relation to the Kingdom and the PVV Group in relation to European foreign policy? Can he explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	That's very easy. The PVV chooses the Netherlands and Curaçao chooses Curaçao. We can't have that in one kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	If the Netherlands chooses the Netherlands, in a European Union with 28 countries and 28 different views, then we sometimes have to do something about it. Mr De Roon will never accept that. In such situations, Mr De Roon is the Curaçao of this Parliament. Let him say how important he thinks it is for the European Union to take a clear stance on this issue, especially when it comes to Iran, for example. The VVD and the PVV share the concerns about that country, I think more than any other party in this Chamber. For this, only one thing is effective, namely a common foreign policy of the European Union, which Mr De Roon is always ignoring. There is only one reason why they have sat down at the table, namely the European Union's common foreign policy. Let Mr De Roon confess to that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u12	That common foreign policy is far beyond the horizon. There is no common foreign policy, only on small parts such as the application of sanctions. But even in that area, it's already wringing. The PVV does not at all believe that the European Union really contributes well to the interests of the Netherlands, even when it comes to foreign policy. Of course, we are happy to be able to work together with other European countries in foreign policy areas. However, this will have to be discussed and assessed on a case-by-case basis. The PVV plays its part in this in our domestic politics, here in the Chamber, just like any other group does. Everyone here can express their views. After that, a decision is made and we have to agree to that. That's the only way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. We're talking today about the National Penalty Act. That law stipulates that Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin apply EU sanctions in order to promote international peace and security. That is a guarantee for the unity of the Kingdom's foreign policy. That, I believe, is the core of the subject we are discussing today. We talk very often about sanctions in the Chamber, for example in our discussions about Russia and Ukraine, about Iran, about Syria, about North Korea and about tackling terrorism. The essence of these discussions is that we are at least trying to influence other parties' policies and behaviour, or to contain a concrete security threat. Sanctions can be an effective instrument of foreign policy, but certainly not always. The Netherlands has a reputation to lose in this area. We are an active player both in the context of the United Nations and in that of the EU, and we are strictly enforcing those sanctions, as laid down in the 1977 Sanction Act. Here too, the Netherlands has the necessary experience, with our financial sector, the port of Rotterdam and huge flows of goods. It is precisely because of the importance of these sanctions, the effectiveness of our foreign policy and also the reputation in this area of the Kingdom as a whole that the government considers it important that these sanctions be implemented throughout the Kingdom. I am therefore here as Foreign Minister of the Netherlands, but also as Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom. For UN sanctions, the obligation to implement them throughout the Kingdom was already valid for the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten on the basis of international law. It is now stipulated that sanctions adopted by the European Union will also be implemented throughout the Kingdom. These could include sanctions that the EU adopts in addition to UN sanctions or self-employed, for example if no agreement can be reached in the UN Security Council. It is important that these sanctions are implemented throughout the Kingdom. This is also laid down in Article 3 of the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands, on the unity of foreign policy. This also means that external relations are primarily a matter for the Kingdom and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is responsible for this on behalf of the Kingdom. It is good to mention that briefly, because that is what this is all about today. Both the fight against international terrorism and the promotion of the international legal order are, in my view, a matter which concerns the Kingdom as a whole, and which is therefore also essential for uniform application throughout the Kingdom. Let me give you some examples. It can't be that a Russian citizen can't get his money that's in a bank account in the Netherlands, but that's with money that's in a bank account in Curaçao, Aruba or Sint-Maarten. It cannot be that Iranian oil could be processed in the refinery on Curaçao while that same oil could not enter Rotterdam. That is why we think this is important. In the area of sanctions, we have worked well on an ad hoc basis within the Kingdom, if there were suspicions of possible violations of EU sanctions. But that ad hoc approach is vulnerable, especially at a time when we are dealing with new threats and when people can move very quickly. Therefore, given the importance of the sanction instrument, we do not consider it desirable that it should be limited to some kind of ad hoc approach. That is why the National Council of Ministers has decided that EU sanctions should be structurally regulated throughout the Kingdom. I refer to Article 3 of the Statute and to the decision-making of the National Council of Ministers. That's why we started a parallel trajectory. The countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten have, on the one hand, taken steps to incorporate into their own national legislation the necessary provisions for automatic readmission, as is already the case with regard to UN sanctions. On the other hand, from 2013 onwards, the development of a National Sanctions Act started, in close cooperation with the countries of the Kingdom. This is described in the note on the basis of the report. My predecessor and I have indicated that a national sanctions law would not be necessary if all the autonomous countries had adequately amended their own sanctions country regulations, i.e. with automatic readmission of EU sanctions, alongside UN sanctions. On Aruba and Sint-Maarten the national routes have been completed. Under their own sanction country regulation, they are therefore legally obliged to implement EU sanctions. In Curaçao, the States rejected a draft legislative proposal to this effect. That is why the law on sanctions at the state level is the only guarantee we need that Curaçao will take over EU sanctions and ensure the unity of the Kingdom's foreign policy. The Rijkssanctionwet takes this into account and allows for a tailor-made approach. For each country it is possible to determine which parts of the law are to come into force, depending on the extent to which they have not already regulated it themselves. This will be different for Aruba and Saint Martin than for Curaçao, because they have already put their own legislation in order. For the countries themselves, there is no difference between implementing EU sanctions, which one should do now, and UN sanctions. There is therefore no question of imposing obligations which are foreign to the countries. These are the same types of sanctions: listings, freezing of funds and the like. I understand that this is being discussed in the countries. After all, it creates an additional workload now that all current EU sanctions have to be taken over. These are 30 different sanction regimes. I understand, therefore, that this cannot happen at once. I also think it is important to stay in this conversation. It has been agreed with the countries that they will give priority to the implementation of the sanctions regime against Iran, Libya, North Korea, Ukraine, Russia, Syria, South Sudan, terrorism and Al-Qaida. I must point out that the implementation of sanctions is the responsibility of the countries themselves. This also applies to the implementation of UN sanctions. It is now important for the countries to get to work on this. The Netherlands is willing, because of our knowledge and because of the fact that they are very small islands, which have a huge additional responsibility, to provide technical assistance. We'll look at that on a case-by-case basis. Other actors, such as customs, are also included. For example, we are now working on the Ministry of Finance of Saint Martin to see how customs can be supported in controlling imports and exports. If Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten run into something in the execution, I'm sure they'll find us and our advisor Kingdom Affairs. Then we share best practices with them as soon as possible. The Legal Affairs Directorate of my department is already assisting in the legal implementation. If countries are to be subject to this EU sanctions legislation, that is the case if this law is adopted, even in the case of Curaçao, then of course you want those countries to be involved. They themselves have a judgment on matters. That's what was asked. Since the implementation of European sanctions can also directly affect the interests of those countries, Article 3 of the National Sanctions Act states that they are involved in the Dutch position determination in the preparation of possible sanctions decisions. Mr Van Laar has asked me whether the protocol that exists is being worked out and whether this is being done in consultation with the islands. The answer to that is yes. We are already working on this by consensus. The regional, economic and political interests of the countries can be taken into account at an early stage in the Dutch position on European decision-making. Wherever you have duties, you have rights. I don't want to be frivolous about this. That really needs to be taken seriously, because the economic consequences can be great. I want to take this seriously in the discussions at the Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels. That is why we have made concrete written agreements on the early involvement of the countries. We are already implementing this, in anticipation of the entry into force of this Act. It's about the following things. The countries must be informed about the Agenda in Brussels. Are sanctions coming up? Sometimes it has to be very fast and sometimes it takes a little longer. Then the countries will have the opportunity to express geopolitical and economic interests to us so that they can be taken into account. That is, of course, a weighting that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Kingdom Relations must make. The Netherlands shall also inform the countries of the official publication and entry into force of the sanctions and of any changes to these sanctions regimes. The countries also participate in the quarterly sanction consultation, which discusses the implementation of the sanctions with various relevant authorities. You could say that this obligation of alignment has been worked out in that sense. That's what we call beautiful nowadays: engaging in the front. I think it's very important that we do that right. We really need to work together to ensure that these things are not only effectively prepared, but also implemented. The pace of EU decision-making is often high and the information is often confidential. That means, because these countries do not formally belong to the European Union, we are politically obliged to raise this early. As you know, sanctions are accepted unanimously in Brussels. It is therefore possible, in principle, that the Dutch adoption of a sanction regime is blocked on the basis of a serious argument from the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u14	That is no different from the fact that the Netherlands also looks at its own interests when it agrees to a sanction regulation. Does the National Council of Ministers, when it meets, offer sufficient guarantees in the eyes of the Minister to involve the countries, or can they also be expected, if a European regulation is adopted, to defend that regulation within its own parliaments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u15	I am not, of course, talking about the way in which representatives of the national governments discuss things with their parliaments. I would like to point out that parliaments - and I say this in the direction of the PVV Group - have every right to represent their interests as they see them. I'm not going to do a round of Curaçao bashing here, which I thought I'd hear from again this afternoon. None of that seems important to me at all. If you want to do something effective together, you also take seriously what is being discussed in other parliaments. Nevertheless, because we have a joint responsibility, we will be very active in promoting and controlling it. However, implementation is a national responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u16	Moreover, there is every reason to be critical of Curaçao, but perhaps we will come back to that in the second term. My question is actually quite simple: does the Council of Ministers, which meets several times, offer sufficient guarantees to cover decision-making in the European Union towards the countries of the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u17	I think so, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u19	We therefore have a kind of priority. I said something about the preliminaries. Perhaps it is good to point out the questions raised by the Labour Party about the so-called dispute settlement. What if you can't agree? How do you deal with that? That may be the case. Indeed, the Minister for the Interior, in consultation with the countries, is considering how a dispute settlement procedure should take shape. We are now in an interim phase, as it is called. At present, it is not possible to determine when such a procedure has actually been established under Article 12a of the Staff Regulations. I would advise against using the dispute resolution procedure in the area of EU sanctions. This would create a very uncertain and suspensive element throughout the implementation of sanctions. It has a suspensive effect. It is both in the interests of the image of the Kingdom as a whole and of the autonomous countries and in the interests of the unity of the Kingdom's foreign policy that sanctions be implemented without delay and by all autonomous countries. This has to do with the security policy elements that play a role in this. In addition, as outlined above, the consultation and information mechanism works well. So it works in practice, I say to all Members present this afternoon. That preliminaries is essential. Nevertheless, I am prepared to examine, together with Mr Plasterk, whether and, if so, how the National Sanctions Act falls within the dispute mechanism to be established, without prejudice to the purpose of the National Sanctions Act. I will take this point with my colleague. This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I just want to know if there are any motions. There are not enough Members of Parliament in the Chamber to support the tabling of motions. There are no motions, I understand. I give the floor to Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. Too many motions are never a good idea, as we heard in the previous debate. Thanks to the Minister for the first-term reply and also thanks for the commitment that it will be considered whether and, if so, how the Rijkssanctionwet can get a place within the dispute settlement system. Maybe there'll be a stand-alone position. I have one remaining question. The Minister said in the first term that this law is different for the different countries within the Kingdom. I was under the impression that this law would have no effect on Saint Martin and Aruba. Perhaps the Minister could indicate whether this is correct and, if not, what effect this law will have. I thought the countries already had the national regulations in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the government for the first-term response. I believe that there are sufficient safeguards for the countries to at least consider whether their interests are proportionate to the effects of a possible sanction regulation and whether this consideration has been properly made. I think that's very careful. We can look again at the dispute settlement, but this should not lead to separate positions being created. I must not forget that Curaçao or any other country within the Kingdom is making a loophole, a sort of U-turn construction in respect of, for example, individuals or funds on penalty lists. This basically undermines one of the few concrete instruments of our foreign policy. Sanction regulations are generally blunt and not easy to set up. These are often villainous states or states which clearly do not comply with the international rules of law we have agreed on, which harm the interests of the international legal order and thereby the interests of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. It is very difficult to do something about that in international relations. Iran would never have sat at the table if there had been no sanctions. It took Europe a long time before it could agree to that sanction regulation, because the Greeks had extremely important interests in oil imports from Iran. It was that moment that caused the combined sanctions of US, UN and Europe to lead to a movement on the Iranian side. You can think very differently about the agreement that was then concluded and whether it has made it safer for us in 15 years' time or not, but at least it has led to an effect. This effect could only be achieved through uniform action by the European Union, to which the Netherlands has ultimately contributed. The same applies to Russia and other countries against which sanctions have been imposed. That's what we need to keep going here. It is therefore of the utmost importance not to allow loopholes and no exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u23	I think Mr Ten Broeke and I agree. Our proposals and questions were by no means aimed at creating exceptions. A dispute settlement or dispute settlement could only lead to the conclusion that the procedures are being properly followed and that this should be done in the future. If a country is hit particularly hard, it can be seen how that is solved. However, this is not an exception; I agree with Mr Ten Broeke. Hopefully he agrees with me that the rules that will soon be laid down in the protocol should be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u24	Then let us agree and let the message to Curaçao be very clear that there will be no exception when it comes to the Chamber and the coalition. There may be a dispute procedure which only looks at the rules that have been agreed. Make those rules as clear and concise as possible, so that there can be no misunderstanding. This means that, in the run-up to such decisions, there must be a form of confrontation. That seems normal to me, and that is what is happening now. More than that is not necessary. We must avoid running holes at all times. If Mr Van Laar means by his last remark that compensation should be provided for those countries which are creeping a bit into his question, then I say that we are far from being able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions and responding to the comments. From what I have been told, I only think that the Netherlands is better off without the Antillean islands. The regular financial problems, corruption and maladministration in the Antilles have always been a reason for the Party for Freedom to completely break the kingdom ties with those islands. What I heard today underlines that once again. I heard the Minister say that the bill of the National Sanctions Act we are discussing today is a legal network. Basically, it's a legal net to get Curaçao to swim in the right channel. I also heard the Minister say that implementation is and remains a matter of country. In other words, once it comes to the execution, Curaçao is completely autonomous to see how it is going to do that. It can train that hugely, it can use all kinds of loopholes in it and it can swim all the way around that net, so to speak. So this whole national sanction law is just a pacifier. At least that leads to the idea that we do not want to be forced by Curaçao to introduce a national sanctions law now. As far as PVV is concerned, it is also... I see that Mr Ten Broeke wants to ask a question. Let him do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u26	Are you done with your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u27	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u28	Then wrap it up first. After that, Mr Ten Broeke will have the opportunity to ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr. Chairman. The PVV believes that the Netherlands should get rid of the duty of care towards Curaçao and the worries that Curaçao gives us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u30	We can think differently about Curaçao, the Statute, the Kingdom and the question of who should or should not have been in it, and whether this will lead to a troubled relationship or not. However, it is difficult for Mr De Roon to maintain here that this state law is not in line with his objections and, moreover, with my own and my group, namely that a country such as Curaçao can just walk away from its responsibilities at the moment. On the contrary, we would like to close the loop. In that respect, I think the PVV Group can simply agree to this state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u31	I see it so that the PVV has been placed under this National Sanctions Act for a choice between two evils: a great evil and an even greater evil. In our view, even greater evil is the European Union's involvement in foreign policy. We don't want that interference at all. So we're not gonna swim in that trap. The other evil, namely that Curaçao can pursue a foreign policy on sanctions that is contrary to the interests of the Netherlands, is indeed also an evil, but we are taking that on sale. This underlines once again our desire to get rid of these islands. Let these islands carry out their own foreign policy, but without us still being responsible for it and without having to contribute money to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u32	This is how we know the PVV again; hence also my interruption in the first term. In the context of 'evil, evil, evil', I would really like to conclude that the PVV Group wants to make it possible, knowingly and knowingly, to circumvent sanctions in relation to rogue regimes, countries that threaten international order but also Israel, for example Iran. That is the greatest evil, and the PVV does not want to fight it here. Look, Mr De Roon, we can't do foreign policy here if you just want to keep your hands clean. Today we have a national sanctions bill ahead of us. This will prevent countries in the Kingdom from having their own foreign policy, with all the consequences. That is what you are running away from; that is my conclusion after my debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u33	That's not the right conclusion. The point is that the Netherlands must be able to determine its own sanctions and not be hindered by islands within the Kingdom. I have argued in the second term that in this context I would like to remind you that the islands, including Curaçao, can still do what they want to do when it comes to implementation. If this bill is adopted, then there will soon be a legal network, but they will still do what they want. That's what it's gonna come down to. The story of Mr Ten Broeke that the PVV is now cooperating in the avoidance of sanctions is, of course, wrong. Those sanctions are already being evaded and they will be evaded. That doesn't work for a second. That's why we shouldn't let ourselves be forced into this federal sanction law. On the contrary, the opposite must be done: away with those islands from our Kingdom. Then we're done with the whole thing. If countries such as Curaçao are to pursue a policy that runs counter to Dutch interests, perhaps we should consider sanctions against an island such as Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u34	Finally, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u35	We're just having a debate here; come on. The PVV Group wants the islands gone. You can wish for reality. You can hold on to all kinds of great ambitions that make the world look different, but today there's a National Sanctions Act for this. In doing so, we are making it possible to achieve unity in sanctions policy, for example with regard to Iran, Syria and Tunisia. I believe that you are now suddenly in favour of Russia. I would like to remind you, however, that by not adopting this national sanctions law, you are actually making the regimes in Damascus, Moscow and Tehran laugh. That's some sort of "dimmy attitude" from the PVV. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u36	Finally, Mr De Roon, because I see that there is a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u37	Well, not quite; it's still interesting. When they laugh in the capitals just mentioned by Mr Ten Broeke, they are mainly laughing at the powerless action of the European Union. After all, I have just stated in detail that islands like Curaçao will still be able to escape because they are ultimately responsible for their implementation. That is their business, and we have nothing to say about it at the end of the day. If they can frustrate the place, they can. They certainly will. So we have to get rid of it. We need to get rid of these countries and that European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u38	The National Council of Ministers is, of course, watching how long we do so. The Statute lays down a guarantee function to which the countries are bound. The National Council of Ministers can intervene if national laws are not sufficiently implemented. However, the PVV now allows Assad to open a bank account in Curaçao. That is what Mr De Roon does when he votes against this law, and that is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u39	He can do that now, and he can do that later, is it not on Curaçao or on one of those other rogue islands or in one of those other rogue states? Let us not be fooled: this is just a pacifier. The coalition parties like to suck on that pacifier, but it won't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr. Chairman. In the second term, a few questions have been asked to me. In reply to Mr Van Laar's remarks, I would point out that there is no need for new activities for Saint Martin and Aruba. The Rijkssanctionwet sets the obligations for everyone. If provisions have already been worked out by Saint Martin and Aruba, no additional activities are needed. I will look into that again, but I do not expect this to be the case. Everyone has to comply with the National Sanctions Act and this means that we work closely with the islands in their implementation. I'll look into the dispute settlement with the Home Secretary. I would like to say right now that the core is now "before." You must try to have as much influence as possible on decision-making in Europe. Of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs should weigh that up; he should be accountable in the Chamber for that decision. In this sense, I agree with Mr Ten Broeke that it is important that it is unambiguous and timely and that it is implemented as a whole. I find Mr De Roon's remarks totally irresponsible with regard to the fight against terrorism. His reasoning is completely unclear, but I see that he is now working on another subject. I'm really shocked by his comments. He talks about rogue islands and rogue states. It's very easy to call the whole world a villain state. Only the PVV can see that well. It is, however, extremely tragic that we should lack the support of the PVV for this important law, which sees, among other things, the implementation of sanctions against what it then calls 'villain states'. I find this extremely irresponsible. It is also legally incomprehensible. Why does Mr De Roon think that the National Council of Ministers would not be able to intervene if islands fail to comply with this law? He knows this isn't the case. I am actually a little fed up with arguments that are not based on any facts or any legal data. Mr De Roon may do so, but I would remind him, on behalf of the government, that this is irresponsible for combating terrorism and that this is therefore not good for the safety of the Netherlands and the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u41	This brings us to the end of this debate, although Mr De Roon has been provoked by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u42	Prohibited or not, I'd like to respond. The PVV will indeed not support this law, because it does not support pacifier. We all know how chicanically we can act on the islands. That will happen in all kinds of ways, I predict. Even if the National Council of Ministers can do something, it will all be trained until the time limit for sanctions has expired. Then we have nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u43	You also said this in your second term. I'm looking at the minister again now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u44	I can only say that you can spend the whole day pretending to the people that we don't have a kingdom at the moment. Whether these islands should stay there or not, Mr De Roon can have a view on that. He knows that this is the case now; that is the existing situation. If he ever comes to power, he might want to change that. At the moment, we have a statute. I believe that as a Dutch representative, he also has his responsibility to combat, for example, terrorism in the way that we can do it within the present Kingdom. I would like to point out once again that Mr Van Roon himself comes up with pacifier arguments. First of all, the National Council of Ministers can certainly intervene. Secondly, this undermines the Kingdom's international sanctions against terrorist regimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-4.u45	Then we have come to the end of the process of dealing with this law. The law will be voted on next Tuesday.
