ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u1	I note that this bill has a long history when I see when it was discussed. One can also change position, I see in the pieces. I understand that we are now ready for the second term of office. Of course, I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been in the Chamber for some time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I'd like to thank former chamber member Van der Steur. It is thanks to his enthusiasm that I may be the first to stand here, because he was the first speaker in the first term. It may well be, we shall say. I will begin by saying something very briefly in general terms about the legislative proposal. I shall then comment on the two amendments that we have tabled. I would very much like to live in a world without crime, a world without violent crimes, and certainly a world without terrible attacks such as we have seen in Brussels and Nice. In such a world, there is no need for detection and we do not have to worry about the chance of catching criminals and the resolution rates of crime. But unfortunately, we don't live in that world. I stand here as MP for the VVD with the task of protecting people's security and freedom. Those who are not safe cannot be free and those who are not free have nothing to do with their safety. I'm standing right here in front of all those people who want the government not to unnecessarily dig into their license plate records. Wherever you take your car and stand, the government doesn't care. Any official who does not comply with this information and who does not do so should be subject to a severe penalty. The VVD would like to hear what sanctions policy will be applied if an official is guilty of this. If it's up to us, such an official will be put out of action at the time. However, I am also standing before all those people who want perpetrators of crime to be caught. Anyone who speaks to relatives of crime victims hears the importance of successful detection, prosecution and trial for them. I'm standing in front of these people, and I think everyone in this room is standing in front of those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u3	Before I give Mrs Van Tongeren an opportunity to place her interruption, I propose that the interruptions be carried out in no more than two stages. It's gotta be possible. We all see the clock, so I also recommend that we exercise some self-limitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u4	It has just been suggested that an official who misuses his powers should be punished and that there should be a proper sanction. Isn't prevention better than cure? How are we looking at GroenLinks' proposal to invest that power with the judge Commissioner instead of with officials? We are less at risk of unauthorized turfing in the data of innocent citizens, as my colleague has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u5	I am well aware of what Mrs Van Tongeren is referring to; she refers to her amendment. I think that we both want the same thing, namely that we do not look at that kind of data unauthorizedly. We need a proper review of this. However, I think there are other ways. I know, for example, that by keeping logs, you can very well look at who is looking at that kind of data. If you build controls between people over and over again, you can do it that way. There is therefore a less legal way to achieve the same. I'm a little reluctant to let all the registration consultations go through the court commissioner. The judge commissioner shouldn't be a stamp machine. We should not conduct things too easily to the Judge Commissioner. Of course, it is precisely the consultations on criminal offences that are subject to pre-trial detention. On the basis of the present legislative proposal one can look back up to four weeks in the registration data. The number of offences for which the register will be consulted may be larger. If you have to get a leave slip from the judge commissioner for all these cases, that could delay the detection and overload of court commissioners, making it a bit of an empty shell. At least that's my initial reaction. That is my concern and my fear. Perhaps there are alternatives. I'd like to talk to Mrs Van Tongeren about that. But I am also looking forward to the Minister's response on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u6	Hospitals are registered and logged. If, for example, you hear how often a medical record of someone with a name like Linda de Mol is consulted by people who really have nothing to do with her health, then Mr Van Wijngaarden has to explain to me how that will protect the privacy of all these drivers. You can see it's being abused and it's not protecting at all. At least not in hospitals and that is even more privacy sensitive information than where you drove on Sunday afternoons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u7	Mr President, excuse the long answer to the first interruption. But as far as the question is concerned, I find it scandalous if that happens. I've talked to the police about this before. I understand that they are very strict about this. Perhaps more stringent than the hospitals mentioned here. I would like a guarantee from the Minister and I would like to hear how this is going to take shape. That is an essential point. That is also what can undermine confidence in these systems and in the government as a whole. I think, Mrs van Tongeren, that we have the same concern and that we should wait for the debate to see how we address that concern. Whether that is via your route, or that there is a less legal-technical route imaginable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u8	Mr Van Wijngaarden continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u9	Everyone in this room stands for the people who want the chance of getting caught by criminals to go up. We also noticed this in the debate following the terrible attacks in Brussels and at the airport Zaventem. The entire Chamber, from left to right, wanted to know exactly where terrorist El Bakraoui had been in the Netherlands and how and with whom he had travelled from A to B through the Netherlands. The Minister replied to questions put by Mr Pechtold when he did not have the power to verify that. I hope that today there will be the same broad support to ensure that, after an unexpected but unfortunately unimaginable next attack, we can easily ascertain where a terrorist has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u10	Mr Van Wijngaarden even writes in his amendment about the example of El Bakraoui, who of course should have just been arrested when he came to Schiphol. Does the VVD think this proposal will help to prevent attacks? Or does the VVD think that this only helps to know afterwards where a terrorist drove the car, when it should have just been stopped at Schiphol? In other words, isn't this an example of symbolic politics that doesn't at all demonstrate the need for this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u11	A terrorist who can get away can make another attempt. I see Mr Verhoeven looking very hard right now, but a terrorist you're not picking up can do another hit. In that sense, it can help to prevent attacks. What matters is that criminals get caught, perpetrators get caught. I have also spoken with police officers and the prosecution in preparation for this debate. At the time of a serious crime, the first thing they do is try to minimize the circle of suspects. So you look at all the information that is available, for example, at camera images, but also at which car has been nearby. With that information, we'll be able to increase our chances of catching people. It's information we need for the search. It is information that the D66 group was very curious about not so long ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u12	It is, of course, also about proportionality. It is always useful to have much more information as a government about all kinds of innocent citizens, which you keep forever, so that we can all look back where a particular citizen has been at some point, if that happens to be convenient. But of course it is about the effectiveness and the extent to which you can justify certain measures without violating people's privacy. Here we are talking about the fact that the VVD says: we are so anxious to prevent attacks. That is what Mr Van Wijngaarden has said twice. My question to Mr Van Wijngaarden is whether we could have prevented the attack if we had had this information. What's the honest answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u13	I think I have just answered that question very clearly and I have answered it. Mr Verhoeven is now pretending that he does not understand my answer. I would like to repeat it again, but I think he understood perfectly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u14	Just repeat it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u15	One more time, but if we do all the interruptions for a very long time now, I think it'll be 2:00. So go ahead, Mr Van Wijngaarden, and try to answer questions as concretely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u16	Look, also the criminal often travels by car, so registration records help track down and prosecute criminals. Only, detectives are like people. They can't uncover all the crimes in four weeks, let alone solve them. Sometimes it just takes more than four weeks to solve a crime, or after four weeks, a new suspect appears. Also, sometimes it takes four weeks for someone's remains to be found. In the government bill, the police are empty-handed after four weeks. There's an all-or-nothing system. We propose a step-by-step system for each amendment. Then you can look back up to four weeks in the license plate records for anything that has pre-trial custody on it. Only I cannot stress the word "only" here enough to solve very serious crimes that have eight years in prison or more than you are talking about murder, sexual offences; I will not mention the whole, ludicrous list here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u17	Well, then, here's what I'm wondering. If you don't know within four weeks, but after four weeks and a day, how do you know if those dates were for those four weeks? How do you know which data belongs to which criminal? I'm trying to get the picture straight. You save the data for four weeks. In those four weeks, you won't find out what happened, but you will after four weeks and a day. Well, then the data will be gone, won't it? Then you can't store them anymore, can you? If you find out within four weeks that a felony has been committed, you're gonna take that data out and you're gonna save it, right? Or do I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u18	Let me briefly clarify. I mean, you save the data for more than four weeks, which is six months. That is what we propose in the amendment. Only we're making an intermediate step. We say, as has been suggested, that you can only look back on those dates for almost all crimes. However, we want to make it possible for crimes such as murder, manslaughter and rape, anything on which there are eight years or more in prison, to look back longer by keeping those dates longer. I have already said that it has occurred that the remains will be found later than after four weeks or that a new suspect will appear. Then you can still look back, provided it's such a very serious crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u19	It's pretty hard to prove where you were four weeks ago, but the longer it's been, the harder. With those six months, how does the VVD intend to maintain the fiction that the license plate holder of the car is also by definition the driver? After all, you know what the license plate is and who the owner is, but not yet who the driver was or who was in that car. Then you have to prove to yourself that you weren't there. The longer it's been, the more complicated it gets. How does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u20	Mrs Van Tongeren is absolutely right about that. The D.A.'s office will have to make it plausible not only that one and that car, but also that one and that driver. The further investigation will have to show that it was that person. It's up to the State's Attorney's Office to make that happen, and of course it can't be done on the basis of the license plate alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u21	Something quite radical is being proposed here, namely to keep all this data for six months. In the interests of our security, we must give up freedom, according to Mr Van Wijngaarden. But then he says he has no idea how to connect that vehicle to the driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u22	Search officers themselves indicate that it's a piece of the puzzle and not the whole puzzle. I am not saying at all that freedom must be given up. Only for those cases where there are suspicious vehicles around a crime scene with eight years in prison or more, rape, murder, manslaughter, including terrorist crimes, we propose to put the extra piece of the puzzle on that puzzle. That's what the people in the workplace are asking us for. We're standing right here in front of those people. That's why relatives and victims are asking for it. In the amendment I have just mentioned, we have also proposed a heavier judicial test. The judge needs to see if this is really in the interest of the investigation. If not, the registration records will remain tight as far as we are concerned. In a second amendment, together with the CDA, we want to address the difficult inability of traffic fines imposed on foreign traffic offenders. Fortunately, with more and more countries, the Netherlands makes agreements that make it possible to fine foreign traffic hoods, so that they can no longer drive recklessly and without penalty on the Dutch roads. It's unfair, unjust and, above all, traffic-insecure when you get away with reckless driving. Many people, not least in this Chamber, are rightly annoyed by newspaper reports about this. Chamberwide lives the ambition to do something about this. If you are fined as a truck driver, the fine is sometimes deducted from your salary. Then it feels pretty bad when you read that a Romanian, British or Polish conculega gets away with dangerous driving without getting a fine. That is why we make it possible for each amendment to allow the recovery period of all fines to be applied only when the identity of the registration holder is known. For all those who receive a fine, the same recovery period is thus in place. This is also important for equality of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u23	I support this very warm plea, but I do have difficulty with the six-year storage period in this amendment. Because that's how you create inequality. At the moment when it is established who the offender is, we go after him, says Mr Van Wijngaarden. Why not comply with existing legislation and keep it at eight months? Then you'll have eight months to fine the offender. That's what you do in consultation with the country where the offender lives. How does Mr Van Wijngaarden view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u24	I would like to thank Mrs Oosenbrug for the supportive words. I put on a red tie tonight thinking that would make her feel a little more comfortable. I notice it's starting to pay off, but we're not quite there yet. The time limit will run as soon as the identity of the person behind the license plate is known. If you do that alone, however, in theory that fine remains infinite. That is why we want to join the five-year period also mentioned in the Police Data Act. But the five-year deadline is not very important. The most important thing is that the Dutch Government is speeding up the conclusion of treaties and making agreements with other Member States in Europe in order to achieve an exchange of information, so that you can impose the fine, if a Romanian or a British citizen commits an offence here, there too. That's the point. We say that while these agreements are being made, you must ensure that those fines remain on the shelf for a while and that the recovery period starts as soon as the identity is known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u25	I think it's a problem. Five years of storage is a real problem for me. I do not think that is a small problem, but a huge problem. I said as a hand-out: I want to align the time limit with that laid down in the Administrative Enforcement Act and store the data as with rental cars for up to eight months. If, after eight months, a fine can still not be collected because the country of origin does not cooperate, then there is a completely different problem. Then the person sells his car with a fine, then I come back in Holland with that car and I still get that fine on my roof. That can't be the intention. I understand that we are all annoyed by people who have come from abroad and do not pay their outstanding fines. But I really don't think it's a good solution to try to raise that money with five years of storage. So my approach is: look at my amendment, I'm throwing it right into sales and think about it. It solves part of the problem. I certainly agree with the VVD colleague that the other part should simply be regulated at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u26	I believe that the PvdA's amendment is based on the idea of the VVD and the CDA to do something about the collection of traffic fines. With a term of eight months, a Belgian, Romanian or British citizen simply does not have to pay anything after eight months. If I leave my fine for eight months as a Dutchman, I get a collection agency on my roof and I also have to pay the collection costs. So I think it's just a strange amendment from the PvdA. I also think it is an open invitation not to pay and wait as a foreigner for eight months. Then it's all gonna be forgiven. No, I say. Anyone here who commits a traffic offence and gets a fine should also pay that fine. Then I'd be happy to leave that fine on the shelf for a while. I would like to make one more technical comment on our amendment and then finish, when I am only at six minutes' speaking time. Our amendment now says "foreigners." That is in the proposal for the legislative text. We're gonna take that out because of the point of equality of law. That time limit simply applies to everyone and starts walking as soon as the identity is known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u27	We're already going to the sixth interruption. I really want to ask you to keep the interruptions short, otherwise we will have to limit them. The answers must therefore be brief and concise, because that is part of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u28	I have one more question, and it's about those six months. VVD chamber member Van der Steur used to sit here in the plenary room in every possible way saying that four weeks really was the perfect balance, that that was considered. He said that we didn't know exactly what this bill was going to mean and that it was an experiment, a horizon clause. It's weird that the VVD suddenly goes to six months. By the way, she doesn't support that very well with a kind of kicked system, where you can suddenly look back at crimes of a certain category. I still don't get it. The PvdA was also under that amendment, but fortunately it has come to its senses. It is nice that the PvdA says: this is indeed not a good proposal. But where did it go wrong with the VVD? Why does she suddenly go from four weeks to six months? MP Van der Steur wanted to, and Minister Van der Steur also wants to go to six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u29	A beautiful show is being staged here, but I think the D66 group too really wants criminals to be caught and the resolution rates to go up. We want to make it possible only for very serious crimes, including in consultation with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, to look back a little longer. You can't solve all the serious crimes in four weeks. I do not really understand what is so complicated about this and what Mr Verhoeven does not understand. That's kind of amazing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u30	I don't understand why the VVD first said that four weeks is a perfect balance, that that's maximum, that that's good, that that's enough and that that's considered, and that she's now saying that we need to double that and that we need to go up to six months, while the effectiveness and the need for it aren't supported in any way. The questions as to whether this actually works and how this measure will really prevent these serious crimes will not be answered. So we are going without being sure that this works at all. The current minister, who was then a Member of Parliament, simply admitted that to a sixfold increase in the retention period. That's really falling out of the sky. I don't understand anything about that. I believe that the VVD should better underpin such a rabid proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u31	Thanks for the pointing and raised finger of D66. I am very curious to see which proposals D66 itself has in order to raise resolution rates. In my view, I have made it quite clear that the four-week period to which Mr Verhoeven refers remains the largest part of the crimes and that we want to make it possible for a very exceptional category in Dutch criminal law, namely everything that is on it for eight years or more, to look back a little longer in the interests of security. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u32	Mr. Chairman. Normally, in the second term, you thank the Minister for the answers given in the first term. However, there is now another minister: my former colleague, who was still in one of the blue seats at the time of the first term but is now in box K. Anyway, thank you for the answers given. Maybe former Minister Opstelten is watching now. It's interesting stuff. It is also open to discussion. We also discussed this in the first period. In the first period, my group has provided a good basis, even if I say it myself, why it can agree to the legislative proposal. I did ask a few questions back then. My first question was about the wider use of the camera system @MIGO-BORAS, which is used by the military police. I asked that question because we understood that the retention period and the reference lists are too limited to combat cross-border crime effectively. The Minister said: I will inform the Chamber about this once the evaluation has been completed and it is clear. The first deadline was on 3 April 2014. So my question is: has this evaluation been completed? If so, what is the result? My second question arose from the input of another colleague, who is not here today, who has waived his speaking time. The question was whether the emergency rooms are ready for the introduction of the bill. At that time, the Minister indicated that this would be further developed. This second deadline will take place more than two years after the first, as I have just said. I ask this Minister: has it worked out yet? If so, what is the result?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u33	Mr. Chairman. I don't need 15 minutes. I think I can stick with a few minutes. I do not think that we should repeat the ideological and substantive discussion that took place a few years ago. So I am not going to do that, but I would like to say straight away that my principles and my views on this law have not changed much in the last two years when we have not discussed them. That's especially for the following reason. Privacy violations and security sometimes go hand in hand. Everyone understands that. I also have to open my bag at Schiphol Airport or at another airport if I want to bring small amounts of liquids on the plane. That is what I would like to do, because it also allows me to guarantee my own safety and that of the person I travel with and of the other people on the plane. However, this is always proportional in a certain way, and that is precisely where the problem lies. That is also what many organisations have indicated in relation to this bill, as well as several colleagues in the Chamber. I believe that the government has still not succeeded in explaining why this bill is proportionate. Even after the changes made by the Minister, I have not yet been convinced of them. In twelve of the nineteen cases examined, ANPR has led to specific investigation information and has had added value. For example, paragraph 4.3 of the explanatory memorandum states this. However, no distinction is made between direct scanning and data retrieval. This has reduced the relevance of demonstrating subsidiarity, for example the Dutch Data Protection Authority writes. This therefore means that there are still wide-ranging doubts about the necessity and effectiveness of the legislative proposal. Can the Minister, in his reply in the second term, make an ultimate attempt to convince the Chamber of Representatives of this? Once again, of course, I am very sympathetic to the police and the Public Prosecutor, who have to try every day to track down the people who make our society unsafe and fight serious crime. After all, we all attach great importance to the rule of law and to the principle that criminals should be punished. I would like to mention a number of points that have also been raised in the debate in April 2014. These crimes are subject to pre-trial detention, including bicycle theft, computer trespassing, insider trading and sedition. That's what remand stands for. Where exactly is the border and who is guarding it? The camera plan will be made public. That's when criminals know exactly where to drive and where not to drive, right? Or they're just stealing a license plate. The Minister could not and cannot give figures on the number of crimes solved per year thanks to ANPR. Again, how do we know it's effective? There have been a number of changes following the Court's ruling that data retention is not acceptable in any case. The Minister says: that is another bill; that is not about this. But this legislative proposal, too, is, of course, the problem of keeping all data without prior risk analysis. The Council of State warns us in an opinion on the consequences of the ruling on the Data Retention Directive that although it is up to the legislator and ultimately the court to give a final judgment on this bill, it should be taken into account that this type of data storage may be assessed as contrary to the principle of proportionality or as irrelevant and excessive, based on the criminal purpose of storage. I would like to ask once again what the Minister's views are on this point. On a number of points, the Minister has tried somewhat to comply with the Court's ruling. Access to registration data will be subject to a prior order of the Public Prosecutor, which must assess proportionality and subsidiarity. Why isn't that done by a judge commissioner? I believe that Mrs Van Tongeren has tabled an amendment on this point. I will certainly support it if it is put to the vote. The district attorney is involved in the case itself. I think it would be better to have a judicial review of proportionality and subsidiarity. This therefore comes close to the Court's demand that there should be authorisation from a judicial or independent body. Finally. Registration data may not be provided to other persons or bodies, but to security and intelligence services for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of those services. Now it's kind of breaking my nugget. Because I can remember very clearly, even though it was a while ago and I am also getting older, that the former Minister of Security and Justice was the current Minister of Security and Justice at that time indeed as MP Van der Steur in the blue seats. I asked him: so it's out of the question, even afterwards, that the AIVD gets the data from the police? And the Minister replied with a glance towards the benches on the right: excluded! What happened in the meantime? I would very much like to hear it from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u34	Mr. Chairman. Today I am delighted to continue where my colleague Gerard Schouw had gone years ago. I am the spokesman in the second term of this debate on police registration and registration. In the meantime, I can say that this is yet another debate in which the cabinet proposes measures that violate our privacy, without clarity as to why this is necessary or effective, and also without establishing clear safeguards. We are talking about the retention of passenger data and telephone and internet data, the tapping of cable communications, the reading of our chat messages by the security services and now the automatic registration of road registration. The government increasingly wants to gather information about citizens who are not suspected of anything and who have not committed any criminal offence. Then you will not escape the fundamental question of what Article 10 of our Constitution is actually worth. How far can the security services break into our privacy without suspicion or direct cause? Necessity, added value, proportionality and good guarantees form the measuring bar through which this legislative proposal is to be made. During the first period, we raised a number of important objections to this ANPR legislative proposal. I shall look back briefly on that. First of all, there are no figures........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs. Gesthuizen of the SP said it, too. Why can't the search be done without this instrument? What's going to go wrong if we don't put this in? Why should the so-called "hit/no hit" system alone, whereby passing plates are matched with reference lists of wanted criminals, not suffice? So we do not know that, and that is why we are simply introducing this as some kind of gamble, attempt or experiment. Secondly, the effectiveness of ANPR for detection has not been demonstrated. We do not know whether ANPR will increase the chances of getting caught, nor whether this expensive system has added value and solves or even prevents crimes. The United States and the United Kingdom have been cited as examples, but also in those countries the added value of ANPR has never been supported by figures. In fact, the note following the report says literally: "This makes it difficult to estimate the number of additional cases that can be solved with ANPR." So I quote from the Minister's work. Germany has now stopped using ANPR: too general and too little concrete. What lesson has been learned from the experience in Germany for the Dutch proposal? This Minister was a Member of Parliament once and then dealt with the first term of this bill. I just mentioned that. As a member of parliament, he acknowledged that the ANPR bill was a major experiment. I would add that it is a very expensive experiment that is at the expense of the privacy of innocent citizens. That brings me to the third objection: proportionality. In the explanatory statement, I read literally: "At the time that registration marks are recorded, it is not clear to what extent they will be relevant to the detection of a criminal offence." That's exactly the pain point. There's no suspicion and no cause. In doing so, this bill runs counter to the fundamental right of citizens to be free from unjustified government interference with our privacy. The Minister then suddenly talks about reasonable expectation of privacy. As if people on the street, on the public road and in the public space no longer have any right to privacy. Speed measurements and peak cameras record plates, that's right, but not without cause, not without violation. That's the difference with ANPR. I am therefore curious to see how the Minister correctly reconciles his public road argument with Article 10 of our Constitution. That brings me to the ruling of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u35	Mr Verhoeven says very clearly that there are no figures at all and no justification. There's really nothing. Is he not familiar with the WODC's investigation that preceded the drafting of the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u36	Perhaps Mr Van Wijngaarden can quote a specific piece of it, to help me get on my way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u37	I put a question to Mr Verhoeven. He says it's not substantiated at all. Research has been done by the WODC of the Ministry of Justice. That's not just some bullshit club. It is a very serious institution, which we regularly ask for research. The WODC investigated this. My second question to Mr Verhoeven is: why does he distrust people in the workplace? Why doesn't he stand next to policemen and the people at the D.A.'s office who say that this instrument can help us put a piece on that puzzle to track down and prosecute suspects?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u38	I fully support the people in the workplace. We all do that in this room. If we are going to have a competition or a competition and then all of us have to approve of this law because otherwise we will not support the people in the workplace, if that is the only argument, we are doing our job very badly. Let's get that up front. We are also thinking about the other people in the Netherlands, who are following seventeen million people who are innocent by the government all the time and if it is up to the VVD for six months without any reason. That's what D66 cares about. Mr Van Wijngaarden is right that the research office is a very good club. There's been research, there's been a lot of work done. That's really good. I ask Mr Van Wijngaarden: give me the figures I am asking for. It is about hard figures and not about the fact that scientific research has been carried out or because the workplace says that this is so important. If those numbers are there, I'd love to hear them. I don't know them. The same applies to data retention. There are always examples of why this is necessary and then there will be anecdotal evidence, but never a figure. I just want to see numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u39	Anecdotal evidence is also evidence. In Zwolle, ANPR led to specific search information in 12 of the 19 cases examined. We're not gonna play silly games here with interviews about research. Mr Verhoeven said that it was not substantiated. The workplace and the WODC have indeed substantiated it. He shouldn't misrepresent things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u40	That is good, but the fact that specific information has been provided is quite different from the fact that it has clearly been shown that crime has been prevented. That's the point. Of course, more information will be available. We already had this with Mr El Bakraoui and Mr Van Wijngaarden's proposal that we could look afterwards at where a terrorist rode by car. I can imagine that with this bill this will work, but that's not the point, is it? We want to catch terrorists before they commit an attack, don't we? After all, we do not want to know all kinds of facts that are of no use to anyone, at the expense of the privacy of those seventeen million people. If it's the VVD's fault, the government knows all of us for six months where we've been driving our cars. We then know where a certain crook rode, when we should have picked it up in advance if we had done it right. This kind of phony proposal is made under the guise of counter-terrorism. There are happy parties that are critical and I am one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u41	You will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u42	I'm definitely gonna move on, Mr. Chairman, because I'm just getting a little steamed up. The European Court of Justice has clearly stated when, where and what public authorities may and may not collect about citizens. This statement about data retention is certainly not only about telephone and internet data, but it applies to all data that give very accurate clues about the private life of innocent citizens, including their daily movements from a to b. It is not excluded that an ANPR camera also shows faces in the car. The government will soon know which driver has moved from a to b when and with whom. And we know that from all Dutch people for six months. Why don't you let that work on you? That is what we are talking about here today. There is no indication whatsoever that the motorist in question, so we all have something to do with serious crime when we are on the road. A government that measures and knows everything says the highest judge in Europe: it cannot. The Council of State underlines that statement, our own Council of State. If the ANPR is presented to a court, it might consider that it is irrelevant to the investigation, that it interferes excessively with the rights of innocent citizens and that the negative consequences for citizens are greater than what the measure provides for our security. The possibility that ANPR is contrary to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights that article concerns respect for private life is very present, says the Council of State, the main adviser of the cabinet. Like it's nothing. I am very surprised at the Minister's reaction to this. In the second letter of amendment, he claims that there are significant differences between data retention and ANPR. The Minister is therefore missing the crucial point, namely that information about citizens cannot be collected by the government. Whether it's registration, whether it's phone records, whether it's passenger records, the government can't and shouldn't just map our trade and walk. We live in a free country for a reason. Does the Minister really ignore the Council of State's warning? What are the chances that a judge will suspend the ANPR law? That is not hypothetical, that it is not something that I say can happen when it cannot happen, has already been demonstrated by the Dutch Telecommunications Data Conservation Act. It's been deactivated by a judge. So it has already happened with a very similar law. I'd like a good answer from the Minister. If this experimental bill comes about because the conservative flank in this Chamber has no difficulty with ill-founded and fundamental rights restrictive measures, then maximum framework conditions must be laid down. I will make that point in the rest of my speech. The Minister proposes that only in a concrete criminal case and with a well-founded order and the District Attorney, I believe that GroenLinks wants that even the judge-supervisor is given access to ANPR data. I think that's a good start. But D66 still has four points on which the Minister really has to move as far as we are concerned: target binding, access, retention period and facial recognition. I'll start with target binding. The legislative proposal focuses exclusively on serious crimes for which pre-trial detention is possible and on fugitives. So that's strict target binding. I would like a final confirmation from the Minister that ANPR is really only possible for these purposes and that, therefore, it is not secretly possible to extend it at AMvB. I'd like a response. That brings me to the second point: the access of different organisations to the data. Not only the police have access to ANPR. There's also access to intelligence services. I can imagine, because we are still talking about the purpose of detection, and that is what this is about. However, there are more services that ANPR can use, but these are not mentioned in this bill. I call it the IRS. According to a 2014 covenant, the tax inspector can also use ANPR to fight fraud. The IRS can keep that information for seven years. Why isn't that access regulated by the law? The provinces also use ANPR to influence the driving behaviour of drivers. Motorists are photographed and then they get a note at home stating that they drove on a certain road during rush hour. Whether they don't want to do it anymore. I would like to know from the Minister which other public services that do not appear in this bill can also use ANPR. If you're linking ANPR to security, as a number of parties do, then they're right, though I don't think it will lead to more security. But the link with security is justified. If you're talking about the Tax Administration and tackling fraud, you're going a step further away from that goal. If we are talking about influencing the citizen at peak avoidance, on the basis of police cameras whose images are stored for six months, then you can get a note delivered at home from the omnipotent government: gosh, you drove there; please go somewhere else next time, because we don't like it so much. That's a long way to go. It's all possible. So we really need to seal this up. Since this is already the second time that this bill has been dealt with, I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in addition to the police and intelligence services, the tax authorities and provinces also collect and store information on motorists by means of ANPR and use that information for different purposes;]] [[Invites the Government to identify which bodies use ANPR, to include in a General Administrative Measure under which conditions ANPR may be used, and to refer this General Administrative Measure to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33542-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u43	I am therefore concerned that we prevent a proliferation of other public services using ANPR without proper regulation in the law. That is why we want to regulate this through a General Measure of Governance. Mr. Chairman. My third point is the retention period. We were just talking about that. The VVD extended the retention period from four weeks to the majestic number of six months. Four weeks was in the bill, and the Minister calls it a balanced choice. The MP Van der Steur also felt that this was a balanced choice, but he had not yet learned his heels to the profession of the cabinet or his successor, Mr Van Wijngaarden, who is here today with us at six months. He wants a six-month retention period! Really, I hope that colleagues will allow it to work on its own for a while, because that is a sixfold increase in this total balding of the balance that the VVD still propagated in the first term. I still don't know why they got away from it. D66, together with the Christian Union, wanted to shorten the term to two weeks. There is no such group now, but there was an amendment on it at the time. I think that's still there, or else we're going to put it back in. As long as we don't know about the usefulness and necessity of this law and it's an experiment, we want the privacy breach to be as minimal as possible. I wonder what the minister's gonna do. Does he go for six months, four weeks or two weeks? Please respond to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u44	Mr President, I have not so much a question as a point of order. I have now heard Mr Verhoeven speak to other parties four times with 'the conservative parties' and 'to allow colleagues to work in their own right that... etc. et cetera et cetera. He can do that, because he is talking about his own words, but I would like to say to the Acts that it would be a good thing for him if he had interrupted me during my speech when his criticism concerns my party. He is now speaking to me through a back door, and as a result there is the suggestion in the Acts that my party agrees with the things Mr Verhoeven is now referring to. That is not the case, and I should like to make that point for the Acts. If he has a question for my group, let him ask it at a time when I can answer it. Don't do solicitation like this, because it doesn't please anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u45	I will try to take that into account. It is not about any group... I just want to make it clear that I am quite desperate about this and that I think that some groups... I have just listened to you very carefully and you have actually said that you can agree for the most part. I have indeed counted you among the conservative flank in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u46	Shame!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u47	I'm being honest about that. I also think the PVV belongs to this. From now on, I will be even more direct in my approach to make sure you know who this is about. No misunderstandings about that. I'll do my best. I'm almost done and then I can start asking questions to my colleagues about what they want. Mr. Chairman. My fourth point is facial recognition. The Minister writes that he wants to explicitly exclude facial recognition, but D66 would like to see it explicitly reflected in a General Measure of Management before submitting the votes to the Chamber. Can the Chamber see that AMvB? I'm rounding up. It is a bill without any justification: without any justification for the necessity, without any justification for its effectiveness and without any justification for why it would be necessary. Moreover, proportionality is very shaky, because it actually goes far too far for what you can achieve with it. It is a risky and very far-reaching experiment which the Minister intends to undertake. It is therefore a good thing that this bill will stop automatically in three years' time and that the Chamber will be able to take a very careful look at whether it has worked properly and been effective. As far as we are concerned, if a majority in the Chamber is prepared to risk this experiment, we cannot do so without the four safeguards I have just mentioned: strict target binding, a retention period of up to 15 days, an overview of and arrangement for all services that ANPR wants or is going to use and all AMvBs with their effects neatly before the Chamber. If these commitments are not made, or if they expire on a six-month retention period, D66 cannot agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u48	Mr. Chairman. During the first-term examination, the PvdA asked critical questions which were largely answered. A second letter of amendment was then sent to the Chamber with some additional guarantees. The reason for these safeguards was the demand for a good or at least better protection of privacy. For example, in the additional safeguards we find access to the registration data, which is subject to a prior order from the Public Prosecutor. I understand that Mrs van GroenLinks is tabling an amendment to this, which I would like to look very seriously at. In any event, the decision to consult the data lies with a higher authority than before. Unfortunately, we know the examples of people who have access to data that they should not have access to. In this case, I am not even talking about the ethical hackers or the black-hat hackers, but just about people working there. My question to the Minister is therefore how he ensures that it is really regulated at the level of access as it should be. Make sure, I tell him, that whoever should have access to the data is actually the only one who will have access to it. When deciding on access to the data, the Public Prosecutor shall assess whether the consultation is necessary for one of the two purposes: the detection of a crime for which pre-trial detention is permitted or the arrest of a fugitive. I'm trying to clear my head when you bet it and when it's having an effect. Could this help, for example, when the girl in Amsterdam was violently kidnapped from her home? Would it have helped if the ANPR were active at that time in the way it is intended in this bill? Could we have stopped that girl before she was transported across the border, as probably happened, or is this something you can't solve with that? I also have the question of where the storage of all these privacy-sensitive data will take place. Is that on Dutch soil, or at least in data servers governed by Dutch law? I would like a response from the Minister. I come to the point of data mining, the search for patterns without any concrete, criminally relevant reason; several colleagues have already mentioned it. The letter of amendment states that this is not allowed, but I wonder how it is controlled or guaranteed. I also hear other sounds, namely that such data mining is in the process of being created. This brings me to another point, which Mr D66 mentioned and which I raised in my first term. I want to hear very clearly whether or not it is possible to blur the passenger away from the photo that is being taken. I am asking this so explicitly because the former Minister of Security and Justice initially claimed that the camera would have to be changed. I can't see that clearly anyway, because you can't set the camera differently with every car that passes by. I am therefore not entirely reassured by that answer about the consequences for any passengers who are also on the picture, in combination with facial recognition software. Can this not provide the function creep that we are rather afraid of? Because you're being placed in a database as a suspect, when you're actually only riding with someone whose vehicle is suspected. The question is: is that guaranteed or not guaranteed? Finally, my group wonders whether a suspect under Article 25 of the Police Data Act also has the right to access ANPR data if this is relevant to his or her defence. Then I had the amendment to item No. Twenty-six prepared. I do indeed understand the frustration that Mr Van Wijngaarden has already mentioned about people watching cars with a foreign registration number get away with traffic offences and fines, because it is not possible to find out their data within the prescribed time limit. But the increase to five years of storage, as proposed in the Van Wijngaarden/Van Toorenburg amendment, really goes far too far. As a compromise, I am thinking of the exception which also applies to the offenders who were driving a rental car. Finally, a storage period of up to eight months applies. So much for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u49	Mr. Chairman. To my great regret, two years ago, I was prevented from contributing to the first term. But I am convinced that the Minister knows me and GroenLinks well enough to assess our position. I'm not gonna surprise him. GroenLinks considers that this bill is at odds with privacy and that its practical usefulness in the detection practice does not outweigh the privacy degradation of an estimated 10 million Dutch registration holders and foreign road users. I see the usefulness of recording and storing registration data, but as it is currently taking place. In concrete cases, targeted detection is carried out on the basis of a well-defined detection target, and so it should be. When applying new technologies to detection practice, the question must always be asked whether what is technically possible should actually be applied and in what way. For each new research method, a precise balance must be made between the privacy impact, the practical usefulness and the conditions under which the information collected is made available. My colleagues Verhoeven and Oosenbrug have made clear speeches about this, and I can almost fully endorse it. I will try not to repeat all these arguments here. According to this minister, how does the privacy breach of millions of unsuspecting motorists outweigh the number of suspects he believes he can detect with this? How do you weigh those two? The necessity and balance have not been demonstrated. It has not been shown that it really can only be done this way. The Minister doesn't succeed in proving that to me with the documents he sent the Chamber. I believe that the information gathered will eventually be literally closer to the skin of the registered one than is supposed to be. After all, residents are probably well recognizable in the picture. We just heard that in the input of the PvdA. Shouldn't that be avoided before you take this rigorous step? The amendment on the table seeks to extend the deadline to six months. That means that everyone in the Netherlands is stuck for six months with whom you were in the car at what time and where you were driving. George Orwell would love it. We are also concerned about monitoring the consultation and processing of the data collected. The Minister speaks of authorized investigators. Who are those detectives who consult data on the orders of the district attorney? This remains to be completed with a General Measure of Governance. But is such an investigative officer at least an assistant district attorney? Or can every cop behind the camera be authorized? How can the information collected be further processed? Who can share an edited file with? And does this also apply to the maximum retention period of four weeks? GroenLinks therefore has every reason to want to invest this far-reaching power with the court commissioner. As an independent member of the judiciary, it is better to assess whether the proportionality and subsidiarity of access have been properly assessed in specific cases. With D66, GroenLinks fears that Article 8 of the ECHR will be compromised. It seems that Privacy First may still hold a very solid case in court, which is similar to the annulment of the Data Retention Directive and the Telecommunications Data Conservation Act. Nor does the Minister succeed in removing our practical concerns. It provides, as the CBP rightly says, a haystack of police records of mostly non-suspected persons. We know on the basis of a whole trite examples that collecting a large haystack only makes searching more difficult. Targeted detectives, knowing each other well and, as we have seen recently, reading e-mails on the weekends are incredibly much more important than increasing the amount of information that already exists and that this minister and other parties want to expand even further, especially with this amendment. The Personal Data Authority points out that the existing, less burdensome power for citizens results when deployed. In other words, a more far-reaching power is superfluous because the existing power offers solace. On the no-hits that need to be destroyed now, Regioplan says that they already have no decisive added value over the already existing powers to use ANPR. What does the Minister think of the expectation of privacy impact assessments that even with a lot of information citizens will have little insight into how ANPR is used and what their rights are? We have already referred to Article 10 of the Constitution; this is then paragraph 3. How are we gonna do that? The Minister seems to insist on the fiction that the car registration holder is also by definition the driver in the specific case. Mr Verhoeven explained this very clearly: what is the point of knowing afterwards who owned a car with which a terrorist might have been transported without being properly prosecuted on the signals we already have to prevent it? It may be nice to be able to say later that a person may have been in a particular place and possibly drove that car, but that does not help to prevent terrorist offences. A storage period of up to four weeks raises risks. As I said in the little interrupting debate: prove yourself that you weren't sitting in your car at the spot and the moment your car flashed. You're busted, even if you weren't there. For example, Iceland has opted for a maximum retention period of 10 days. That option, as I read in the Acts, is too quickly put aside by the minister's minister's predecessor. So I'd like to get a reaction. The most important practical question is, of course, how registration will contribute to the actual detection of suspects. Just because you know that a person's car drove somewhere doesn't give you any insight into where the suspect might eventually be found. Just because you know that a certain road is often used by burglars, robbers or other crooks, doesn't mean that you can catch them handy before or just after the crime. How this bill contributes to a safer Netherlands, the Minister does not explain to me. I'm gonna finish up. It is clear that GroenLinks is far from convinced of the usefulness and necessity of this bill. We are deeply concerned about the impact of this proposal on the privacy of millions of unsuspected citizens. With the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority, we believe that we can do better with the current, tried and tested method.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u50	Mr. Chairman. We also fit some modesty because we were not able to be part of the illustrious company that has made a nice contribution here today. Some restraint is therefore appropriate. We are talking about a very important law. That is why I think it is important to say something about this. This bill makes it possible to record and store registration numbers of passing vehicles for a certain period of time. Later, if something is going on, it can be verified and checked whether a case can be solved because that car has been driving in a certain place or because there are other supporting documents. It could be the decisive factor in an investigation. The state's attorney's office and the police have convinced us of that. That is why I think it is important for this law to be adopted. We have seen that this can be a link in the fight against crime. You might be able to solve more cases. There have been investigations. There's a compelling demand to do this. In fact, it's just a little sad that it took us so long to get this law. Anyway, we got him now. We have tried to add a number of points. As Mr Van Wijngaarden has pointed out, we have been looking a bit: shouldn't you have some kind of size so that if there is something very serious, you should look back and see if anyone has been anywhere? We have tabled an amendment to that effect. It is, of course, always up to the Chamber how that is weighted. Does it prefer the amendment with the VVD as the first signatory? Or would we like to go a step further? If I taste the atmosphere in the Chamber today, I think there will be a hesitation to go one step further. As far as we are concerned, more sexual offences must fall within the scope of the retention obligation. Perhaps there could be a somewhat longer period of time for ramcracking and other serious issues, such as child pornography, so that you can look back in the data a little longer. We've been trying to make it some kind of choice menu. We have submitted it to the Chamber and it is now up to the Chamber to decide how it is weighted. We have another question on what we have just heard from Mr Verhoeven. It is interesting that he is so strongly behind the Council of State and says that it is almost bizarre that it is so ignored. I would like him to do the same with his bill on majesty desecration, but that aside. He did have an interesting point today. He said that this law automatically expires in three years. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he is. It also states that the Royal Decree may decide that the law is to be passed. Mr Verhoeven said it quite clearly, but the question is whether it is. I think it is important that we know this at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u51	I don't understand how you can keep records for six months to find, for example, a child killer. If you don't know who it is yet, you're gonna have to keep everyone's records for six months. You can't think specifically: child killers drive mainly in white Opels and I only keep those data. Or another car brand. Apologies to the car brand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u52	We keep everything for six months. Let's be clear about that. We all keep it for six months. For the lightest offenses, you have the opportunity to look back four weeks with the D.A.'s permission. In the proposal that Mr Van Wijngaarden and we have made, you can look back six months in the case of serious crimes. We have set the bar a little lower. We also want to have the more serious sex crimes involved, because you often see networks moving around. The data is stored for six months, but we changed the key when you can look in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u53	What about proportionality? Look at Article 10 of the Constitution: the protection of unsuspected citizens. I find four weeks of saving a drama, let alone six months: the data of everyone in the Netherlands, every time you're in the car, with a picture of the passengers. Does the CDA seriously want to introduce this in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u54	I'm not kidding. The answer to that is yes. Of course, I don't want everyone to be able to dunk into that. Mr Verhoeven has quite rightly asked questions, especially about local authorities. I am very interested in the Minister's answer. I want to see that in cases where support has to be found or where someone may have been, the judge can decide that it can be considered whether that person actually drove there at that time. I used to be a lawyer, so I can see it for myself. I can see that there's a suspect in a serious offense somewhere. The question is whether there's enough evidence. There would be sufficient evidence if a person had been in a particular place. Take the street back here. If we could see that, because we have kept the data, the judge-in-chief could indicate: we now want to know if this person has been here. This can happen in the case of a serious criminal offence over a period of six months. So you can get support for that. That doesn't mean that all the data can be verified and that you can proceed to the name and the person, but you can check if the license plate was there, hoping to provide support. That's what the police convinced us of, and that's what the D.A.'s office convinced us of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u55	The CDA looks very differently at privacy than D66. Almost every week we see examples of this, so I should like to ignore that. I shall deal with a technical point in the Van Toorenburg amendment to part No. 25, combined with the Van Wijngaarden/Van Toorenburg amendment to item No. 28. I see a stain-in-spot hazard. The Van Wijngaarden/Van Toorenburg amendment says: save six months, only for very difficult things. Mrs Van Toorenburg then says in the amendment to item No. 25 that the retention period of six months should be extended to ramcracking, money laundering and some other things. If we both accept these amendments, then we can look back six months for everything. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u56	No. That's why I said it's a choice menu. I cannot imagine the two amendments being adopted. In fact, then, the CDA amendment would simply be adopted and we would not have it double. If the CDA amendment is adopted, we can indeed look back on a six-month database for more crimes with the permission of the Judge Commissioner. If one wishes to opt for only the heavier crimes, one should opt for the amendment that we have tabled together with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u57	We must then ensure that not both amendments are adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u58	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u59	It's nice that the VVD and the CDA at least agree on that. This is important. I would ask the Minister, through this interruption, if he wishes to address this technical issue. I know this is unusual, but the combination of these two amendments makes things even more dangerous than it already is. That is why I would like the Minister to take that up. Then we have that clarity, otherwise the Chamber may make the mistake of keeping everything for six months and of seeing everything again for six months, for almost every crime. Then it's very out of balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u60	It is good that Mr Verhoeven indicates that he has more confidence in the Minister's explanatory statement than in mine. That's his grace, and that's totally fine. However, it is exactly as Mr Verhoeven says: it is not intended to be a kind of duplication. We have also tried to make it a choice menu: do we want it only for the most serious crimes, or do we want it to be possible to make a wider choice? That is what we have chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u61	I assume the Minister will answer that in his reply. That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes. After the suspension, the Minister will reply. Let us agree that two interruptions can be placed in two stages each.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u62	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the spokesmen for the comments made and the questions asked during this second term. It is indeed remarkable that this debate has been postponed for two years, including at the request of Mrs Oosenbrug. I remember that well. She very much wanted the government to consider the situation with regard to this bill in relation to the ruling of the European Court of Justice in April 2014 on the general retention obligation for telecommunications data. Shortly afterwards, my predecessor sent a letter to the Chamber, in which he responded to that statement and also explained why, in his opinion, the ruling on the retention obligation for telecommunications data does not apply to this bill. At the same time, we have noted that, in the light of the debate, it was wise to amend and clarify the legislative proposal in a number of areas in the first term and in the light of that statement. That's what happened. The legislative proposal before us today, in our firm belief, complies with all laws and regulations, including all the conditions of, for example, the ECHR and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. We must be aware that plates that you collect on the public road are of a different nature than telecommunication data that is kept secretly or to which access is subsequently granted. The information that you can derive from telecommunications data, namely who is in contact with whom and how long that contact lasts, the so-called metadata, is, of course, of a different nature than the fact that a particular car is located along the public road. It is right that Mr Verhoeven referred to the fact that in the Netherlands we have a system based on the registration number. This means that based on ANPR data, you can know which car has been in a particular location at any given time. We believe that with the safeguards now contained in the letter of amendment, namely the role of the Public Prosecutor and the additional safeguards that we have attached to the investigating officer who has access to that data and should be authorised by me, we have complied with all the requirements that could reasonably result from the judgments of the Court. It is true that they were on another subject, namely telecommunications data, but we have taken that into account. I will come back to the technique in response to the questions asked. I understand the concerns of some of your members. Therefore, it has also been decided to establish firm and very strict targets for this legislative proposal. Data stored may only be consulted for the detection of serious criminal offences or the arrest of fugitive persons. Access is limited to investigators authorized by me. In addition, there must be a prior order from the district attorney. That prosecutor, who, as you know, is a member of the judiciary, must also, in a specific case, check whether the requirement for access to that information has been met. That requirement is included in the second letter of amendment. At the same time, as has been stated explicitly and clearly and as Mr Verhoeven and other spokesmen have pointed out, the prosecutor in the review, but also, of course, the investigator in making the request, must comply with proportionality and subsidiarity. This means that the geographical area or period for which certain registration marks are sought must be in balance with the facts and circumstances which gave rise to that request. This means, for example, that if a jeweller is robbed in Rotterdam-Zuid and so it is obvious to want to know if a particular suspect has been in the area, it is not obvious to look for license plates on cameras in Groningen at the same time. And the district attorney is expected to account for this consideration. This also means that the judge can ultimately check whether that assessment has been made correctly by means of supervision and ex post control in the criminal case. This allows him to check whether the evidence obtained from the ANPR is legitimate. Mrs Gesthuizen and my predecessor had an extensive exchange of views on the role of the intelligence and security services. In particular, the debate in the Chamber on the attacks in Brussels has strengthened my view that it is explicitly necessary for the General Intelligence and Security Service to have access to this information. These were the questions raised by a large number of group chairmen in that debate. I would like to put them together: why can we no longer determine what the movements of a particular person have been, after a series of months we have determined that this person has been in the Netherlands? I was somewhat surprised by Mr Verhoeven's attitude, because his group chairman may have expressed himself in the most clear terms in my direction. He asked me very explicitly why this perpetrator, as Mr Pechtold called him then, could no longer be investigated what information was obtained. Even after the adoption of both amendments, as laid down by the CDA and the VVD groups, at the time of the debate, given the time when the terrorist suspect arrived at Schiphol Airport, it would not be possible to ascertain what his movements were, for the simple reason that the deadline had expired and it was too long ago. In this respect, I would have expected Mr Verhoeven to have said, by analogy with his group chairman, that if you now know that when someone arrived in the Netherlands... Mr Verhoeven is also right that we should have been able to arrest him at that time if that had been the case. In the debate we exchanged widely that we could not at that time, apart from the fact that, unfortunately, we did not know that the good man was coming. Otherwise, at least we might have been able to do something, but I think the Chamber is aware of that. But I do not understand why Mr Verhoeven is still saying that it should only be two weeks, since his group chairman has so specifically asked that question. That is shorter than what the government initially proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u63	I thought I'd wait once or twice. But the Minister seems to think it's necessary to repeat it three more times, so I'm just going to make it a personal fact. My group chairman has never said that it is worth getting information and then going to keep all the data of all innocent people in the Netherlands. I find these two things connected a little strange. The question was certainly asked at the time. My question to the Minister is now: is it necessary, in order to be able to identify the movements of perpetrators afterwards, to store all the data of all innocent citizens? That's the question I asked. That is a very legitimate question. That is separate from a debate in which my group chairman has put other questions. To link that up three times now and to pull out the trick that I think is different from my group chairman is total nonsense and also faint, because we should not make things black and white here, but we should weigh things properly. I think six months is way out of line. Two weeks is therefore the D66 proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u64	Then I must confront Mr Verhoeven with the statements made by his group chairman. He literally asked me: "Where was El Bakraoui between 15 July 2015 and 22 March 2016?" That's a period of over six months. That was the question that was asked. I replied at that time that we do not have the powers to give retroactive information on movements alone. I do not need to tell Mr Verhoeven what his group thinks about the storage of camera data. I probably do not have to tell Mr Verhoeven what his group thinks about keeping other data. It is very simple: we can make an agreement with each other here tonight on a genuinely reasonable period of time within which information may be kept. Indeed, there are registration numbers among people we will never look for and whose registration number will never be filed. However, Mr Verhoeven is absolutely right. Whether we need data from passing cars to find out with retroactive effect whether a terrorist suspect or a serious criminal has passed a certain camera at some point, the answer is of course: yes. After all, when we store that data, we do not know whether the person who drives it is a criminal or not. It shows the usefulness and necessity of this bill, which has been underlined not only by Mr Pechtold, but also by Mr Wilders, Mr Roemer, Mr Klaver, Mr Segers, Mr Bontes and Mr Krol in the debate on 22 March. I therefore feel strengthened in the conviction that the legislative proposal is sensible in that respect. I would point out immediately that the four-week period I proposed is short, given the debate in March. For this reason, I will respond in a positive way to both amendments, which I have a number of questions to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u65	My question was very specific about the General Intelligence and Security Service. I do not think the Minister has really answered that question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u66	When Mr Verhoeven asked me a question, I strayed, but I returned to the AIVD. Mrs Gesthuizen is right that my predecessor has indicated that the AIVD has no access to this information. The debate in March led me to expressly revise that position, because it is very important, given that events and the underlying facts, that the intelligence and security services should also be able to have access to the stored data within their own legal frameworks. All forms of supervision are, of course, taken into account. In the letter of amendment, I have arranged very neatly that the AIVD should also have access to the data, because it can contribute to the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u67	This is not the answer I had hoped for. Why are we doing it? Because we think it's important. I'd like to get a more substantive response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u68	We are doing it because, as a result of the debate in March and the events in Belgium, France and Germany, the question has repeatedly arisen as to how, for example, we can establish links between the attackers. Let me focus on AIVD and terrorism. How can we make connections between attackers? If a person has committed an attack or has been prevented from doing so, it may be very important, on the basis of the information on the registration number of the person concerned, to check in one way or another what the movements of the person concerned have been during the previous period. In the government's proposal this can be done for four weeks, and in the amendment it can be done for six months, but with increased access. Given what is happening in the Netherlands and the world, there are many reasons to have the opportunity to look for the movements of someone we have great concerns about on a concrete basis, because he is a criminal, a terrorist or suspected of being. Then I'll come to the questions. I have divided my speech into four blocks. Nut, necessity and added value; privacy aspects; other and finally the amendments and the motion. Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Van Tongeren asked about the added value of the bill and the difference between the current commitment. It is very important to note that the police are currently using ANPR, based on current legislation and regulations. Under Article 3 of the Police Act, such data may not be kept if there is no reason to do so at the time of the recording. Only if someone is currently driving past a camera and that license plate has been spotted at that time can the police take action immediately at that point. It may then retain this information but cannot look back on the same data a day or two days later. That is the current situation. This leads to a lot of positive results in the detection of criminals and other people or cars wanted, in cases such as liquidations, car thefts or robberies. In all such cases it is possible to search for current data in the ANPR data. If someone drives through it, you can then take action. In the case of a large number of crimes, however, it is not already clear in advance what the license plate of the offender is, and it is only as the investigation progresses that it can be established that the offender has entered a certain place at some point, simply by surveying the mobile phone. It often takes longer to find out what the number of a person concerned is and to do research on it. That is exactly why we have tabled this bill. We want to make it possible to assess retroactively whether further data can be obtained from the ANPR data. As far as I am concerned, this has shown the importance of keeping the data. Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Verhoeven asked how much factual information we now have. Mr Van Wijngaarden already referred to the WODC investigation. The WODC did indeed investigate that. It's been a while, by the nature of the bill. One obstacle was that of course there were no data available on the search after the expiry of the current retention period. That is why the WODC has said that, on the basis of the current legislation, we cannot determine enough what the added value of the legislative proposal would be. That has already been mentioned. It is therefore difficult to make an informed assessment, but one thing is certain: the added value of the ANPR. Mrs Helder and Mr Van Wijngaarden also noted that the police and the Public Prosecutor were very clear about this. They are convinced, just on the basis of their daily experience, that the ANPR will have added value to the hints in the investigation and sometimes also to the concrete evidence. Of course, the information will be collected. There is no other way, because we have agreed on an evaluation. That means that we will gradually gain a lot of knowledge and skill on the ride. We will involve them in the evaluation and then it will be up to the Chamber to give an opinion. I come to Mr Verhoeven's question as to what goes wrong if the bill is not introduced. The answer is that we will not be able to do what we can do under the law, namely to carry out retrospective investigations in the database of registered registration numbers. So the contribution I expect from this law cannot be realised for the purpose of detecting serious crime or terrorism. Mr Verhoeven also asked: is the Minister going for four weeks or six months? In view of the debate in March, I can only welcome the proposals made by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Van Toorenburg. I note, however, that there is a difference between the two amendments. Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment goes beyond Mr Van Wijngaarden's amendment. I would like to say that I leave the opinion on both amendments to the Chamber, but I will make a few comments on the substance in a moment. I'm going to the subject of privacy. In a very visual way, I should like to compliment Mr Verhoeven on this: do not all citizens become potential suspects? Of course, that is not the case. The fact that a recording is made of a license plate does not mean that the person whose registration is made is also a suspect. There is, however, more legislation and regulation on the basis of which we store personal data for possible criminal purposes without any suspicion of a data subject. The PNR directive adopted with the full support of the Chamber is an example of this. We must be careful, however, about the ghost that hung a bit above this debate as a result of a number of spokesmen's comments, namely that there could be something like grass dune in the data. That is absolutely not the case. In any event, there must be sufficient legal grounds for the authorised investigator to be able to search the data. That can be based on, for example, a specific location or a certain license plate. That's all for the D.A.'s assessment. In line with the amendments, this can only be done after a heavier test after a period of four weeks. The possibility of consultation of data is severely restricted. Data may only be consulted for the purpose of detecting a provisional attachment fact or for what is applicable if one of the two amendments is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u69	Mrs. Van Ooosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u70	The "From" is off. That's the expensive branch. I'm not from the fancy branch. In theory, it sounds really incredibly good. But we know the practice, and that's what I was referring to. At some point, the data is somewhere. To access it, you need a login name and password. I'm just gonna say something; that's how I kind of imagine that it's going. My question is: how is it ensured that only that particular person has access to that data? In real life, it's different. We know a while ago at the D.A.'s office, a lady downloaded a file after all, when she officially didn't have access to it. So it's possible. We're not asking this for nothing. It's incredibly important, also because you can see someone's movement data for up to four weeks, for example mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u71	Yes, and if there were any reason to look at Mrs Oosenbrug's movements, that could be the case. I know Mrs Oosenbrug longer than today, so I know that there is little chance of it, but it is nevertheless possible. Here's what I'm gonna say. I always think it is risky to discuss computer technology with Mrs Oosenbrug, because she knows much more about it than I do, but the law stipulates that we need an order from the Public Prosecutor. That means only authorized search officers have access to the database. Technically, access is only granted if you have an authentication and a unique code. Only a limited group of authorised investigators will have access to this. So only they actually have access to the database. They shall then verify that the relevant data can be provided to the applicant. Of course, the system also logs what happens. So if there were any concerns afterwards, then that could be looked at. I would like to take this opportunity to reassure Mrs Oosenbrug on the following. Can you still search the database without a specific relevance? Article 126j only provides for the possibility of accessing registration data in the interest of detecting a serious crime. The system of logging can also help to determine later whether or not this has happened. I do agree with Mrs Oosenbrug that this could be a real danger. That is why all these measures have been taken. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether the data could be further processed after consultation. Yes. Information which meets the search request and which has been lawfully obtained may continue to be processed in the framework of the search. They are then subject to the regime laid down in Articles 8 or 9 of the Wpg. I have already explained that, in our firm belief, this is in line with the ruling of the Court of Justice. Mrs Oosenbrug asked about the operation of Article 25 Wpg. Can ANPR data also be accessed by someone for their defense? The good news is that those records are already in the criminal record in a criminal case in which they play a role. The defendant is always entitled to a copy of that criminal record. If the data are not in there, the data subject may rely on Article 25 Wpg and request access to the ANPR data relating to himself. You can do that if he wants to use that data for his defense. Mrs Oosenbrug also asked a question about facial recognition. Is it possible to blur the passenger away from the photograph taken? We do not provide a technical possibility for blurring the driver's face or the passenger, but we will use privacy by design. Cameras shall be tuned in such a way as to prevent faces from being captured as much as possible. The cameras shall also be placed in such an angle that they are not aimed at the driver's or passengers' face. An additional safety valve is built in. If a face appears to be visible, the authorized official will not release the photograph until the face has been made unrecognizable in the context of the search. That is also the answer to a question that Mrs Van Tongeren asked. All this will be included in the Implementing Decision. So I can say to Mr Verhoeven that the AMvB will say that no facial images can be provided on the basis of the scheme. By the way, this means that we are imposing restrictions on ourselves in this respect. It may well be that we later find that this might not have been wise, for example in the case of a terrorist suspect. On the other hand, I think it is justified to clarify this point. Mrs Oosenbrug and Mr Van Wijngaarden asked what the sanctions would be if a competent official were to exceed his powers or in some way unauthorized use of these data. It's very simple. The existing police integrity policy does not, of course, allow improper use or abuse. Action will also be taken on this. This could lead to disciplinary measures, such as suspension or dismissal. Sometimes these behaviours can also constitute a criminal offence, for example if those abuses are committed in exchange for a gift or promise. Mrs Oosenbrug asked whether the data would be stored on Dutch territory. I can reassure her on that point too, because the answer is yes. The data is stored on their own police servers. These are located on Dutch territory and Dutch law applies to them. Mr Verhoeven asked whether an AMvB could regulate the use of data for purposes other than those mentioned in the bill. I think that is a fair question from Mr Verhoeven. It can't be. The law indicates that there is strict target binding. We can't deviate from that at AMvB. I think that's what reassured him. I've already indicated who's being authorized to look into it. Mrs. Van Tongeren asked for that. So I've already answered her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u72	I have an amended motion on this subject. The motion has been changed in a very subtle way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u73	Debates of the European Parliament has been amended to the effect that it has now been signed by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van Tongeren, and reads: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in addition to the police and intelligence services, the tax authorities and provinces also collect and store information on motorists by means of ANPR and use that information for different purposes;]] [[invites the Government to identify which bodies use ANPR data and inform the Chamber thereof and subsequently to include in a General Measure of Management under which conditions authorities may use ANPR and to refer this General Measure of Management to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 30 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u74	The second part of the motion said that I wanted to be in the AMvB about which agencies it was about. It doesn't seem possible. So we would like to have an overview of the authorities that also have access to the data. That's the first question from the motion. I also fixed it up to ensure that the AMvB was regulated under what conditions authorities would then be allowed to use it. So this is to prevent us calling bodies in an AMvB, because that does not seem to be possible, I understood. That is the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u75	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u76	Can I also ask a question on the same subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u77	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u78	The Minister says that target binding is not suppressed by the ability to avoid it via an AMvB. That's nice. In my text, I also asked about organisations such as the Tax Administration and the Province, for example. You could say that an organization can cross the target binding by doing something else with the data than it says it does with it. You can also say that other organisations will have the data and that this will eliminate the target binding. I would like to hear the Minister say a little more about the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u79	That is a good question from Mr Verhoeven and I am happy to answer it. That will also immediately mean that I give him a hint of how I think about the motion, at least on the motion without amendment. The system in the Netherlands operates in such a way that such data can only be collected on the basis of a legal framework. This means, for example, that the Tax Administration has its own legal framework. I'm not gonna find anything about that in an AMvB either, because it's just in the law. Mr Verhoeven can also agree with that. With regard to the provinces, I can say: I do not know. I don't know what you're talking about. When I look at the data collected with the ANPR police system, according to the law, only the authorised police officer and the AIVD are allowed access on the basis of the AIVD legal framework, as provided for in this law. Those two will be taken care of. The Tax Administration has its own legal framework and also its own ability to use ANPR through cameras. It will therefore not be able to use the data collected by the police. There is therefore no such access.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u80	I also mentioned the provinces. The minister says, "I don't know." I think it is true that there has recently been an AMvB that has ensured that provinces now use the footage from police cameras to seduce people to avoid rushing. That should then be investigated, because I think that only happened a few months ago. I remember having a discussion about the fact that there was an AMvB at another minister's office trying to arrange for the provinces to use the police camera footage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u81	I know that there has been a debate on this with the Minister of I and M. In order to avoid taking a position when I do not have the data ready, I will inform Mr Verhoeven of this by letter before the vote. I will address Mr Verhoeven's question specifically, and I will now rephrase it to see if Mr Verhoeven agrees. Can the provinces have access to the data collected by the police on ANPR cameras under the current law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u82	Is that the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u83	Yes, that is the question, with the addition that, if it is not so and the images are used, my fear confirms that even outside the law this is apparently possible through agreements, agreements and mutual cosiness between levels of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u84	That goes without saying. In this case it is black or white. I don't know if it's white or black or I don't know which color Mr Verhoeven prefers but I'll explain how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u85	There will be an answer and that will come before the votes. Mr Van Wijngaarden has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u86	In the block that the minister just closed, he talked about restrictions contained in this law in the context of privacy protection. Can he include in an evaluation of this law the extent to which these restrictions, including the time limit, whatever they may be, pose problems for detection? What are they running into? Can this be explicitly included in the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u87	A good suggestion, which I would like to take over from Mr Van Wijngaarden. I've come to the block of other questions. Ms Helder asked about the state of play regarding the wider use of @MIGO-BORAS for law enforcement. Let me see if Mrs Helder recognizes this, because occasionally I answer questions that Mrs Helder has not yet asked, but would have liked to ask. I have sent a letter on this matter recently. It states that trials have shown that the use of @MIGO-BORAS may have added value to criminal law enforcement. That is why Mrs Helder is asking for it. Implementation has not yet been completed for technical reasons. Not all reference lists can still be used. It has already occurred that for specific cases, such as kidnapping, license plates have been loaded and used. We are working on this and I assume that I will keep you informed of it or not through the Secretary of State. Mrs Helder was right to ask about the emergency rooms. The emergency rooms have a role to play, mainly in real-time entry of a registration number on the reference list if there is a report of a crime committed in which a witness has registered a certain number. The control room has a role at the time of a crime and ensures that the reference list, which automatically searches for hit/no-hit in the data, is updated as soon as possible. That task is well secured in emergency rooms and is therefore in order. The emergency rooms don't have a role.............................................................................................................................................................. That's reserved for the authorized official. I have already told Mr Verhoeven that the Tax Administration has no access. There are no public services that have access to the police, ANPR, cameras or the database. If there are other services that collect information, such as Rijkswaterstaat, they have their own cameras. With regard to the provinces, I will return to this by letter, because I do not have that information ready at the moment. I have already spoken with Mrs Gesthuizen about the amendment to the AIVD. Mrs Van Toorenburg referred to the debate with Mr Verhoeven. It asks whether the law automatically expires after three years. That's true, unless the law is renewed by Royal Decree. Mr Segers has tabled an amendment on this point. I'll come back to that later. I am going to propose to Mr Segers to amend his amendment, because I would prefer the law to be extended by law rather than by KB. That may sound contradictory, because a KB seems easier than a law, but in this particular case, if it is one or the other, I would like to extend it by law, so that we can have careful treatment on the basis of the evaluation. I will be able to understand this with Mr Segers and make a comment about it later. Mrs Van Tongeren asked if I think a haystack is being built that makes it more difficult to search the data and what I expect from the privacy impact analyses. The haystack is not a ghost image, but far-reaching reality. I am glad that the nominations for the Big Brother Award are already out of the way, because I think that after tonight I might have a good chance to follow in the footsteps of my predecessor, because everyone can be extremely concerned about this kind of legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u88	I am a little disturbed by the Minister's bathing tone, because it is not nothing that is being proposed here. There's gonna be grass dunes in the records of 10 million people who didn't do anything. I do not think it is appropriate that the Minister wipes this off the table with a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u89	Then Mrs. Van Tongeren and I are not entirely in agreement. There is no turf dune in data. That's exactly what I've just shown you. It is subject to very strict conditions. That is extremely carefully defined. That requires at least the prosecutor or the judge commissioner, depending on the choice made by the Chamber. It's about not looking for innocent people. For legitimate reasons, people's license plates or cars are being searched for. That is something other than what makes Mrs Van Tongeren believe that this bill is being proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u90	It has been shown in detail that people change their behavior when they know it's registered. That starts when you put up a poster with two eyes on it. And that's certainly true when people know that their phone behavior may be monitored. Soon the whole of the Netherlands will know, soon all people will know that they are being followed everywhere they drive. That has immediate impact. We have Article 10 in the Constitution for a reason. So my group is not enthusiastic about this bill. The Minister knows that. Taking this off with the joke that the Minister is almost eligible for the Big Brother Award, I find it detrimental to the responsibility of a Minister of Justice Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u91	Then Mrs Van Tongeren did not listen carefully to what I just said. I would just like to point out that I attach great importance to the fact that this law is being dealt with with with great care. I have put this in detail, not only in the documents I have written myself, but also in this debate. I am well aware of the concerns surrounding such a bill. I am also very aware of the importance of the bill. I do not wish to undermine in any way the concerns that exist. On the contrary, I would point out that, because of these concerns, the legislative proposal is being handled very carefully. I want to reassure people who think that their data is being viewed by everyone. That is not the case. The system makes it very easy, based on information and communication technology, to search very carefully, as is already the case with the current ANPR system without storage, only for those data that you need on the basis of legitimate information. The vast majority of people who ever drive past an ANPR camera will never be searched, because those people do not give any reason to search for their data. I say to Mrs Van Tongeren that I am committed to the privacy impact analysis that we have already done. He's already with the pieces. I confirm that there will be periodic privacy impact analyses and will be made available to the Personal Data Authority. I come to the amendments and the motion tabled by Mr Verhoeven. The Christian Union has in part no. 8 tabled an amendment on the extension of the operation of the legislative proposal. I think it is very important with the Christian Union and other parties that the Lower House should be able to decide by majority on the extension of the functioning of this law. I think it would be better to settle that not through a KB, but through a bill. This means that the law will expire unless a legislative proposal for renewal is submitted before that time. In this way, the usual effect of the horizon determination is chosen. This means that the Chamber decides by majority whether or not an extension is taking place. This means that I would like to ask the Christian Union for the amendment to item No. 8 in order to adapt to the fact that we are extending by law and not by Royal Decree, which is now the proposal. I shall continue with the amendments, Mr President. The amendment in part No. 22 by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Amendment No 22 by Mr Van Wijngaarden, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mrs Van Toorenburg (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Van Toorenburg for her excellent report. They provide for an extension of the retention period to six months, with access to the retained data bound after four weeks to a prior authorisation of the Judge Commissioner. The difference between the two amendments is the category of offences for which the data can be consulted. I have already told the Chamber that I am sympathetic to these amendments, including the comments made by a large number of groups in the debate on the attacks in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u92	Mr Verhoeven, this will then be the very last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u93	As far as I'm concerned, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u94	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u95	At least for my part, because I think the rest of the Chamber will certainly have some questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u96	On your part, indeed. Now, your interruption, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u97	The Minister's making it very complicated. He said just now about the debate on the attacks in Brussels that even a six-month period would not have worked. Or wasn't that what the minister said?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u98	That's right. Mr Pechtold asked questions in that debate. I have indicated to Mr Verhoeven that they imply that you have not yet arrived with a period of six months. In view of the support given by the two spokesmen, I dare say that they have given it a lot of thought. That is why I can broadly sympathise with the thinking behind the amendments tabled by the two spokesmen. It is true that Mr Pechtold said: how can we no longer be able to look back? It's in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u99	That's not in the Acts. In the Acts there is only one question from Mr Pechtold. I will not bring the Acts in now, because that is not the point. Mr Pechtold asked only where El Bakraoui was and then the Minister said: I didn't even know if he was in the Netherlands. In my opinion, this is no longer about travel data in the Netherlands. I want to know exactly what the Minister's advice is, and that is why I am dealing with the following. The Minister himself said "four weeks." This debate is largely about the length of the retention period. The Minister now goes along with a proposal from the Chamber, while as a Member of Parliament he said that an extension of four weeks to six months would be a huge extension. He does that because in another debate it would be said that this is necessary. We can differ on that, but I'll give it to the Minister. He then concludes, however, that six months would not be enough either. Surely it is not in any way supported by him that a six-month period is a better one than four weeks? Then it's just bullshit to accept those amendments. That still makes no sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u100	That is crazy, because then Mr Verhoeven will have to come up with an amendment that will ensure that it is aligned with the English rules, which will allow that data to be kept for two years. It's possible. I should like to quote Mr Pechtold. He said: "Why didn't he himself take the initiative, for example, to reconstruct through the images of Schiphol or with other data what happened at the time?" "At that time" is therefore July 15, 2015. That's the question. The answer to that question is to say: if you want to be able to answer that question, you will have to change the law. If you want to know where someone might have been with a car in such a period, then six months will not be enough either. I myself believe, as I say to Mr Verhoeven, that a period of six months with the guarantees that are to be given is reasonable. That is why I would like to leave the opinion on the amendments to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u101	Last time, Mr. Chairman. I promise. I now understand why the Minister in his youth has won a debate prize. He is now throwing two things at a pile, husselt what and then pretending to justify his answer to the question. He actually says that a six-month period does not work if you want to see what has been asked for in another debate. He admits that equestrianly, but nevertheless he says it is a good idea, even though it does not bring a solution nearer. He then finds it strange that a solution is being asked for, even though that question was not at all about the travel data but about the images at Schiphol Airport. That's totally unrelated to registration. He throws two things at a pile. I like that idea, but the Minister simply has to admit that a six-month period could not have solved the problem that was previously unsolvable with a four-week period. In short, it would not have helped either to achieve the goal that the Minister is talking about all the time. Well, then it'll be a little folly-squeezing. If it doesn't help, you might as well stick to four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u102	It is a pity, however, that Mr Verhoeven was not present when I was able to win 1991 one eye in the country of the blind, because I would undoubtedly have won less of these prizes. Mr Verhoeven is more than capable of using similar debate tricks. I'm simply looking at what's ahead. We have established together that we want to have the opportunity to determine for a longer period what the movements of someone who may be in the Netherlands are. That means you need the license plate or other information. That's how you can track the movements. That was the essence of the debate on 22 March. Many group chairmen then asked the question: why do we not know what we should want to know? Then you can do a few things. In the direction of Mr Verhoeven, I said that when that debate took place and the question was asked whether a six-month period would not have been enough, I said yes. Then Mr Verhoeven says: propose a year. But then Mr Verhoeven still opposes it. I have thought very carefully about the amendments that have been tabled. As was also discussed in the first debate, there is no doubt that the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office believe that the four-week deadline would have been too short. Everyone knows that; there is no discussion about that. I have seen reason to determine for myself, on the basis of recent developments, let us be realistic, the world in 2016 looks really different from the world in 2014 when we first conducted this debate with each other, namely that it is justified to be positive about the amendments tabled by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Van Toorenburg. The Chamber must then make a choice which of the two it wishes to have. Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment goes beyond Mr Van Wijngaarden's amendment. I therefore leave that consideration entirely to your father; to your Chamber, I mean, you must hear me. I would now like to make a comment for the Acts, but that does not work, because then that remark will also be made in the Acts. So I'm gonna leave it at that. I therefore believe that the House itself should make the choice between the two amendments. In doing so, it would be wise for Members to ask whether the relationship between the extension of the deadline and the seriousness of the offences is still a consideration. They have to do it themselves. However, I have reservations, as I say to both proposers, about the need for the Judge Commissioner's intervention in accessing such data, because we have already restricted access to that data by means of the prosecutor after four weeks. I shall also say this in the direction of Mrs Van Tongeren. I think it should be enough in itself to get the prosecutor to judge the access, but if the petitioners think it better to be the judge commissioner, I can live with that. I come to Mrs van Tongeren's amendment, which is now item No. 29. In a way, I have already responded to that. If you look closely at our system, where the Public Prosecutor has the power to decide on specific investigative powers in a number of areas, it is appropriate that the Public Prosecutor also has that competence in the context of the ANPR. I refer, for example, to Mrs Van Tongeren's systematic observation, systematic collection of information and infiltration. In doing so, we have chosen to have it done by the Public Prosecutor. In this respect, I also believe that it should not be the judge commissioner but the prosecutor in this case. The same reasoning applies to the other amendments. I have to do the amendment in part No. 29, therefore, are not recommended. I would like to add to the amendment tabled by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Van Toorenburg on foreign registration holders. 26. I would like to look into the point raised by Mr Van Wijngaarden, the question of equal treatment for non-Dutch people, but for example Europeans, which is what we are talking about in many cases. I will therefore say to the House that I will respond in writing to those two amendments before the vote next Tuesday. I want to keep these amendments as well against European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u103	So you are talking about the amendment to item No. 28, that's about plates...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u104	... and 26, if it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u105	The amendment in part No. 26 by Mrs Oosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u106	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u107	As far as the Acts are concerned, I would like to point out once again that in our amendment, we are abandoning the distinction between foreigners and the Dutch. We choose to hang it purely on the question of who is the registration holder. If that can be traced, it must be done immediately. That's when the deadline comes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u108	That will undoubtedly help to weigh up, because this was one of the concerns. I am going to look at it very carefully, because I would be sorry if we adopted an amendment which could easily be overturned later by a judge. This is a bit alien to the ANPR debate, but I understand the thought behind it. The intention is, of course, that we should make legislation which is in line with European legislation and not in conflict with it. That goes without saying. My predecessor has already indicated his opinion on the amendments tabled by Mr Segers, who were already known for this second term. I have already indicated that I would like to suggest to Mr Segers that he amends his amendment on the extension to one point. I will also look into the possibility of similar amendments in the amendments which have so far been dissuaded by my predecessor. That is what I will understand with Mr Segers. If this leads to an amendment, I will inform the House of that before the vote on the amended amendments. I now come to Mr Verhoeven's motion. I promised Mr Verhoeven that in the letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u109	A practical point: on my copy is Verhoeven/Van Tongeren. It's now a joint motion, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u110	The motion by Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Van Tongeren asks the government to identify which bodies use ANPR data and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I complied with that motion. The ANPR data collected on the basis of the law before us are used by the police and by the General Intelligence and Security Service, within everyone's legal base. I have promised Mr Verhoeven that I will inform him more about the collection by provinces. That means that I have complied with this motion and therefore consider it implemented. If Mr Verhoeven wishes to put it to the vote, I will not recommend it, because there is no reason for me, under this law, to provide your Chamber with information about all kinds of other bodies for which I am not responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u111	I understand very well what the Minister is saying here and I think he is right about that. I will certainly withdraw the motion at the time I am sure the Tax Administration will not have access to this data. I still have doubts about that. The Minister has just explained the legal framework and the like, but if this is correct, I will withdraw the motion absolutely equally. Then the second part has been promised and the first part has been discussed. I'm just gonna hold off on this because I'd like to do some more research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u112	I'll check that out. In order to make the debate even more complicated, I would point out that the Tax Administration sometimes comes to its own data retention on the basis of the same cameras. I see Mr Verhoeven looking at: what is that? It is possible that one camera is used to create two datasets, one within the framework of the legal powers of the Tax Administration and the other within the framework of the legal powers of the police. That's what happens in practice. So there is no cross-pollination between the two databases. If that is different, I will pay attention to it in the letter, but I am convinced that it is not. If the letter doesn't say anything about the Tax Office, the answer is that it doesn't have access to the ANPR police records.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u113	So here's what we're gonna do. The Minister writes a letter in which he addresses both the provinces and this specific point concerning the Tax Administration. If he does, as he has just promised, I will withdraw the motion. Then the Minister can spend a lot of time on his letter and he hasn't lost it to my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u114	I appreciate the withdrawal of the motion and will comply with the requested letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u115	Since the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van Tongeren (Doc. , was No. 30) has been withdrawn, it shall no longer be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u116	In doing so, I have answered all the questions put by the Court in the second term. I would like to thank the spokesmen very warmly for their input and thus for a good and substantive debate on an important subject which I firmly believe will make a special contribution to the detection and prosecution of criminals and potential terrorists in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-17.u117	If there are still a few comments in a letter, we can vote on Tuesday. I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister.
