ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Taverne. He is supported by the VVD group employees Matthijs Hazenkamp and Jasper Boon in the defense of his bill in trade union K. I also welcome them, enjoy them. I would also like to welcome the Foreign Minister. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. We are starting today with the answer of the initiator, after which the Minister for Foreign Affairs will answer the questions asked to him. I shall be the first to give the floor to the initiator, Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. As you said, today we are discussing my proposal on the adoption of treaties with all binding provisions. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues for their constructive input in the first term. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his presence, advice and support, and for the information he sent to the Chamber earlier this week following the first term of office. I will try to answer all the questions as well as possible and for clarity I have grouped together similar questions. I shall begin by addressing the questions put by Mr Servaes, Mr Knops and Mr Sjoerdsma, who want to know exactly what the problem is. Mr Van Raak, Mr Servaes, Mr Knops and Mrs Schouten have made suggestions for less far-reaching improvements. My answer to that will lead me to explain the letter of amendment which I have now submitted, and with which the Chamber is therefore aware. I will then turn to the question raised by some of my fellow Members as to whether the legislative proposal does not increase bureaucracy and/or lengthen the passage time of the adoption of treaties. Finally, I will deal with the other questions. What is the problem with this bill? And how big a problem is that? These are legitimate questions which must of course be asked in any legislative proposal. The answer to this is that this bill contributes to the solution of a fundamental problem, a problem of principle, if you like, which is seen in our work as representatives of the people. We are directly affected by this as a parliament, as I say to Mr Servaes, and I will explain why. Parliament, including this Chamber, is a co-legislator and only once we have agreed, is a law in force and all the inhabitants of our country are bound by it and can rely on it. However, it happens that the people in our country are bound by legal provisions, without us having looked at them and/or had our say about them. The Netherlands is a representative democracy and so one could say in such a case that the Dutch people have not been able to say anything about it, and that is why we as a parliament have not done our job or done our job properly. It is annoying enough if we do not do our job properly, but it also has a negative effect on the other powers in our state system. Allow me to dwell on this a little bit longer. I'll start with the judiciary. Any binding provisions of treaties are directly applicable in the Dutch legal order and take precedence over all the laws we lay down here, and so is our Constitution. The judge applies the law and, in order to know how to do it, he looks, among other things, at parliamentary treatment and the history of law. But if we are silently approving a treaty, the judge does not know what the parliament thinks about that treaty or a specific provision. The judge then lacks an important handle to explain the operation of the provisions in individual cases and can therefore do his job less well. It's the government's job to negotiate treaties. At the moment there is little, or at least little, visible, in these negotiations as to whether certain provisions are binding on each, and that is partly because we pay little attention to them. In this respect, I find it difficult to blame the government for the situation as it is today. But as soon as the government indicates what provision it considers binding on each one, this may give us cause to be extra attentive. In short and good is the problem that Parliament is currently doing or can not do its job. That has negative consequences for ourselves and for the other state powers. That's the problem I want to solve. Mr Sjoerdsma and others asked which treaties were silently approved, yet each of them appeared to contain binding provisions. There are some examples of this, but the most striking example is the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Discouragement. This example was discussed in detail in the written round. Mr Sjoerdsma (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Sjoerdsma for his excellent report. Nor can we reasonably allow the Minister to come to the Chamber for each treaty. I don't think we want to. That is why many colleagues have asked whether it is not possible to solve the problem that has been identified in a less far-reaching way. Over the past week, I have been in contact with a number of colleagues and my advisor, the Foreign Minister, on this very subject. If I have understood colleagues correctly, there is broad support for strengthening parliamentary involvement in treaties, but it should not result in unnecessary additional work being done by the government and this Parliament. In order to respond to these concerns, I have drawn up the aforementioned letter of amendment. The legislative proposal now means that the government will in future indicate in advance whether a treaty, in the opinion of the government, contains provisions that are binding on each person and, if so, what provisions they are. The government's assessment of these provisions may lead to a break in silence, but ultimately the Chamber itself is concerned about that. It was asked whether the legislative proposal would not result in more bureaucracy or a longer lead time for the adoption of treaties. Mr Servaes and Mr Sjoerdsma pointed out the risk that the flow rate could increase from four to eleven months. Mr Knops asked about the consequences for the workload of Parliament and the government. Mrs Schouten also asked about the ability of the Netherlands to act in international traffic, although she thought that the risk was a little heavy. I think it's gonna be okay, too. I refer once again to the letter of amendment which stipulates that the Government must now state whether a treaty contains any binding provisions in its opinion and then, on the basis of that information, the Court can decide how it will deal with the Convention. This will create some additional workload for the government. In fact, it must pay even more attention in negotiations to the presence of all binding provisions. I don't see this workload as a disadvantage, but rather as an advantage. It will ensure that we know better what we are committed to if we sign a treaty. I believe that this will benefit both the government and the parliament and the judge. Mr Bishop said that explicit approval would still allow the signing of a treaty as a hammerpiece. That's true. Less obvious treaties, which are all bound by binding provisions, are still open to the silent approval of them. However, this is a conscious choice of this Chamber. It may also happen that the Chamber wants to talk about a treaty for a very long time, whereas in the past it would have been silently approved. The question then is: is this bad, or is this just working of democracy and therefore our work? Surely it is only right that we should dwell here for a long time on treaties with all binding provisions. It would be strange if we were to think that we should be more involved in the adoption of treaties, but that we find it difficult to debate them or believe that they are taking too long. He is not here, but he will undoubtedly hear this. In this context, he suggests that, in urgent cases, the government can always call on Parliament to speed up the process. It happens all the time. So I think it's gonna be a lot easier with the unnecessary bureaucracy and the loss of time. Now I'm gonna go crisscross the remaining questions. Mr Servaes has asked whether we have sufficient confidence in the authorities of the trias politicians. Do we trust ourselves enough to make the weighing-up of any binding of treaties? Are we confident that the judge has been sufficiently equipped to do so? Mr Sjoerdsma also asked for this. For me, trust is the starting point in the relationship between the different state powers. Within the triad, we have to help each other, simply put, occasionally. Mr Teeven referred to this as the dialogue in the triad; I could not have said it more beautifully. If the government indicates that a provision is binding on everyone and if we then have a debate on it, the judge is optimally equipped to explain and apply the provision. Of course, there is no need for everyone to agree within the dialogue in the trias. It is possible that the government and parliament consider that a treaty does not contain any binding provisions, while the judge considers that this is the case. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the risk that the Parliament and the Government might disagree on whether a treaty has any binding provisions or whether the Second and Upper Chambers disagree. I do not see this as a risk, because this also fits within the dialogue in the trias. As always, the judge has the final judgment; therefore, the judicial freedom is not restricted. I say this specifically to Mr Sjoerdsma. I come now to Mr De Roon's questions. First of all, I would like to thank him for his kind words, because the PVV welcomes the fact that the judge has better tools to determine how the legislator intended a treaty, according to Mr De Roon in the first term. That is exactly what I am trying to do with this proposal. Mr De Roon asks how many international treaties the government concludes without the House of Representatives having discussed them. Mrs. Schouten asked the same question. In the period 2012 to 2014, 103 treaties were implicitly offered to the Lower House or to the States General and 42 treaties explicitly. A fifth of the members of the Second or First Chamber can, as you know, break the silence. That is 30 Members on this side or 15 Members across the street. In the period mentioned, this happened five times. So what Mrs Schouten called the 'emergency braking procedure' is used once or twice a year. This means that 98 treaties have been silently approved, so without the House of Representatives having discussed them. We simply do not know whether there are many more treaties between them which contain all binding provisions. Mr De Roon also asked about Article 7 of the Reichswet adoption and publication treaties. That article lists the situations in which the government does not need parliamentary approval for the conclusion of a treaty at all. According to the cabinet note sent to the Chamber by the Minister last Monday, it concerns an average of 40 treaties a year, of which on average 20 amendments to annexes to previously approved treaties. Mr Bishop asked whether we should not be extremely cautious in dealing with tacit approval in the transfer of state powers to international bodies. I agree with him. As a member of the VVD Group, although I am not here in this capacity, I am pleased that at least the VVD Group voted in favour of Mr Van der Staaij's own-initiative proposal on the parliamentary approval of European treaties. I dare say that now that the Dutch Presidency is over. Mr Teeven asked about the evaluation clause. I think it's always good to evaluate a law after a certain time. That is why I have included that provision. After five years, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will send a report to the States General on the effectiveness and effects of this law in practice. I expect that the ratio of 103 tacit agreements, with an average of one per year breaking the silence, to five treaties, will turn out to be different. I think it is also good that we will soon know how it worked out in practice. Mr Teeven also pointed out that more of the provisions of the Treaties could be regarded as binding. Is that a consequence I wish, the question was. The answer is that I would at least not mind. If a treaty has all binding provisions, it will come to the surface at some point. I would much prefer that the government has already noted this, so that we can debate it, rather than that it becomes clear at a much later date. It is now possible that this can only be discussed with the courts, and that is suboptimal. If a treaty contains this type of provision, we must know it as soon as possible. Mrs Schouten asked me about the situation in the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Italy. In the United Kingdom, treaties are submitted to Parliament, after which it is ultimately for Parliament to ask for explicit approval. In Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Italy, some treaties require explicit approval, but not all treaties. This is true of treaties of great political importance or for which implementing laws are necessary. As far as I am aware, these countries have no major problems with the ability to act in international traffic. Mr. Chairman. I have already come to the end of my reply. I should like once again to thank the Foreign Minister and his officials for their advice, support and pleasant cooperation. Mr Knops asked me whether and what consequences it would have for my position in the Chamber if I were to hang out with the Minister for a while. Well, I've done that now. I wasn't disappointed. Whether it will lead to major changes in my position is to be seen, and if the Minister then likes it, you should ask him in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u3	I'm sure he's gonna tell us. The Minister has the floor and then we are going to do the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Taverne for the pleasant way in which he has worked together and for the opportunity to advise the Chamber on the proposals he has put forward. Let me begin by saying that the cabinet naturally supports and welcomes the importance of democratic legitimacy of treaties. I think that this debate is also a good way to take a closer look at what is the best involvement, as you wish, in the conclusion of treaties. At the request of the PvdA, the CDA and the SGP during the plenary debate on 3 March last, I sent a note. I am not going to repeat the content of this now, because it would take a lot of time, but that actually seems to include exactly what is important for your Chamber, namely to describe and assess the current practice of the Treaties, as well as the criteria for the choice of tacit or express approval of treaties. You will, of course, read that, in today's approval practice, Parliament and government, like myself, I also see today's co-operation working together on the adoption of treaties in view of the importance of the best possible parliamentary involvement and the importance of effective action by the Kingdom in the international context. You have seen the criteria that are being used for this. Treaties containing provisions which may derogate from the Constitution shall always be submitted for express approval. This also applies when implementing legislation is needed. In addition, there has been a parliamentary practice between us, for example with regard to specific points for which there is great interest in the Chamber. I refer, for example, to Protocol No. 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. There are other examples that I will not work out for the sake of time. Parliament and government together have formed the approval practice in recent years. It means that, of course, even during an tacit approval procedure, there is still an exchange of views through, for example, the questioning of written questions. There may also be a technical briefing. The key point in Mr Taverne's proposals is, of course, that of all the binding provisions. This framework means that, in accordance with the Constitution, those provisions must be applied by the courts and administrative authorities, if necessary by removing legal provisions contrary to the Treaty provision in force within the Kingdom. Treaties are always foreign policy instruments and are used for the diplomatic, economic and social interests of the Kingdom, both for the Netherlands and for the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom. The Constitution lays down that, of course, treaties should not only be submitted, but should also be discussed intensively with the Chamber. Your Chamber's own initiative proposal has made an important contribution to this, and it is now doing so through a number of provisions which I believe are very important. The proposal has also been strengthened in order to prevent significant delays and increases in workload in certain cases where this would be undesirable, from hindering the approval procedure for treaties. This delay and increased workload would be mainly due to the obligation to submit treaties for express approval which do not now require parliamentary approval. The question is whether this can be important for international action. Yes, that is indeed the case, if, for example, the MH17 treaties with Ukraine and Australia should first be submitted for express approval. The government should keep the possibility of responding immediately to emergency situations. The proposal now before us provides for the legal provision of information in the approval procedures on possible binding provisions. That's important. It is also important to emphasise that attention is paid to this important issue. This is already happening during, for example, negotiations on human rights treaties. However, I fully understand the desire to do so much more substantial, coherent and structural. The amended legislative proposal calls on the government to make an additional effort in the preparation of the approval documents, namely the appointment of any possible binding provision in the explanatory memorandum to a treaty. I think this is positive. In any case, the government's opinion is positive. I see the point of this additional effort, because an opinion of the legislator on any binding provision of the Treaty may provide a basis for the court to form its opinion. The final assessment of the link between a provision and each other remains, of course, a matter for the courts. It's so arranged in our country. Now that the explanatory memorandum will deal in detail with any binding provision, the suggestion seems to be less relevant in that context, it was also a thought of Mr Servaes to draw up a sheet. The question remains whether the attention that may be paid in future in explanations to any binding provision should be laid down in a legislative amendment. I'm not quite convinced of that yet. I would like to leave this judgment to the Chamber and the views it has on this matter. There are still a number of questions to me in my advisory role, which I would like to answer. I mentioned earlier in the documents that we need to be able to act quickly in international traffic. We can give examples of this. I can mention two, but there are more: access from the MH17 team to Ukraine, as well as the one-year Kosovo Tribunal Convention. These annual treaties allow the government to quickly conclude treaties with other states in situations requiring immediate action. A question has been asked as to what the term "direct effect or any binding effect" means in the Netherlands. I believe that this has once again been provided with sufficient clarity in the note I have sent. It's a pretty long story. I would not repeat that, with your permission. We also know what the formal criteria are now. Questions were raised by the groups of SGP and Christian Union. I just answered it. How often is it used to break an implied procedure? Mr Taverne has just given the answers. In any event, seven uses were made from 2012 until April 2016. One example of this, requested by the Christian Union Group, is the breaking of silence in the treaty on the transfer of sentenced persons with Peru. For an overview of all treaties in which silence has been broken since 2012, see the Annex to the Cabinet Notice. Mr Taverne has given the right answer to the question of how it is regulated in other countries. It is very specific everywhere and it is also very different from one country to another. It's not easy to sum up. For these countries, such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Italy, which are requested, it is generally true that certain categories of treaties should be submitted to Parliament, but that the government is free to conclude treaties outside these categories. In all these countries, there are certain exceptions to parliamentary approval in cases of urgency. I was then asked, also by the Christian Union, where the House of Representatives is already able to force explicit approval of many treaties at this time, whether breaking the tacit approval procedure of treaties creates problems in international traffic. You can. You don't have to. A recent example, which has been discussed in the House of Representatives this week, is the breaking of the tacit procedure with regard to the FATCA treaty with the United States for Curaçao. Partly because of the delay in the approval procedure, the deadline for entry into force of the Convention was not met. However, a solution was then found with the United States. It is, of course, our duty to do so when something like this occurs. Therefore, it is now difficult to determine clearly whether a provision of a treaty is binding or not in advance of this request by the SP Group or in the course of the parliamentary examination of treaties. It can be difficult because direct action often occurs only in very specific situations. In addition, over time, the view on the linking of a treaty provision with each other may also change. In many cases, there can be no more than a statement that the provision may be binding on everyone. The final judgment lies with the court on the basis of the specific facts and circumstances in the individual case before it. Furthermore, the government has tried to explain this further in the cabinet note. The PVV Group has asked me to what extent Parliament is involved in the conclusion of treaties under Article 7 of the Rgbv. For conventions under Article 7a, the Parliament authorizes the government to conclude certain conventions without prior approval by means of a law of approval by a basic treaty. The intention to conclude an Implementing or Extension Convention.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Parliament and, where appropriate, the authorised ministers of Aruba, Curaçao and/or Saint Martin will have 30 days to decide that the Convention should still be subject to an approval procedure. Last month, Parliament made use of this possibility and indicated that any extension of a treaty with Burundi should be submitted to the Chamber for express approval. For short-term conventions under Article 7c which do not involve significant financial obligations, the Rgbv does not provide for ex post approval. These treaties do, however, form part of the overviews of the negotiating treaties which Parliament is offered every quarter. An example of this is the one-year interim treaty on the establishment of the Kosovo court in the Netherlands. That Convention was concluded in order to prepare for the effective start of the Kosovo Court. Treaties of a secret or confidential nature, as laid down in Article 7d, shall be notified to Parliament subject to confidentiality, unless the interest of the Kingdom objects to knowledge. We also happened to talk about this yesterday during the debate on NATO. For amendments to technical annexes to treaties covered by Article 7f, Parliament may, when approving the Parent Convention, agree that future amendments are to be made without Parliament's involvement. The SP Group has asked whether the bill has any impact on the treatment of CETA and TTIP in the Chamber. My assessment is: not or hardly. On 5 July, the European Commission indicated that it would present a proposal for CETA as a mixed agreement, despite its own legal analysis. It follows that the Dutch Parliament has the power to approve this Convention. This view of CETA might also apply to TTIP. CETA will in any case be submitted for express approval. If it turns out that TTIP is also a mixed agreement, TTIP will also be submitted for express approval. Why does the Ministry not keep to which treaties may contain any binding provision? How many treaties in which any binding declaration must be read by law in force have been silently approved at the time? I thought Mr Taverne had already gone into that. I cannot give precise figures on treaties containing any binding declaration. The Ministry has a database in which legal facts are recorded. These are dates, reservations, declarations, types of approval, references to state journals and so on. As you know, the legislator's assessment of each party's connection to Treaty provisions is not a final assessment. I just put that into practice. It's a preliminary assessment. Therefore, the judgment is not registered. It's not hard given, because the final judgment stays with the judge. The summaries sent to the Chamber as an annex to the Cabinet minutes show that an average of 35 treaties per year are offered for tacit approval. Some of them could contain any binding provision. For details, I refer the Chamber to the cabinet note. The SP Group has asked me if I am prepared to clarify the quarterly lists and annual lists. We are open to Parliament's wishes for clearer information on this matter. You can do that through quarterly messages, annual lists and layouts. However, it is not possible to indicate exactly how this should be done in the quarterly lists of negotiating treaties, because of the fact that they are not final. Finally, I would like to say once again that, according to the government, the proposal submitted by the Chamber could make a really good contribution to strengthening the role of Parliament in the adoption of treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u5	I would like to thank the Minister and the author very much for bringing forward a practical proposal together. The Court is reminded by a Treaty of the possibility of any binding provision. Is there a need for legislation or is the Minister's commitment sufficient? Does this proposal require legislative change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u6	I'm not entirely convinced of that. I believe that a commitment on my part in this Chamber could suffice, but I would like to leave that judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u7	I would like to take this opportunity to ask when the Minister expects to send the approval law for the extension of the treaty between the Netherlands and Burundi to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u8	I'm afraid to tell you that. I don't know if I'm gonna get another chance to speak this morning...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u9	In principle, this is your last opportunity, but for this burning subject we will break open the sitting for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u10	I will inform the Chamber about that one way or another today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u11	That can also be done during this debate. That brings us to the end of this period. I note that there is a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the author of the legislative proposal, Mr Taverne, for answering the questions and for explaining the second letter of amendment. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his advice to the Chamber and also for his answer to the questions put. In the first period of time, I did not under stand that I was enthusiastic about the bill, but I have now taken note of the second letter of amendment and now I am frowning. Looks like the bill's going to be substantially changed. You could say it's being watered down. Initially, the initiative proposal contained the obligation for the government to subject treaties with any binding provisions to explicit approval by the States-General. There would be no escape from that unless it had been declared a hammerpiece by the States-General. This obligation in the initial legislative proposal has simply been crossed out by the author. Article 6 of the Reichswet adoption and publication treaties is no longer amended. Instead, the applicant would like to amend Article 2 of that Law. This amendment obliges the Government only to indicate, when submitting a treaty for approval, whether the Treaty contains any binding provisions in the Government's view and, if that is the case, to indicate which provisions they are. It is then up to the States-General to decide whether it wishes the approval of such a convention to be given expressly or implicitly. This means that we are entering into the procedure laid down in Article 5 of the State Law. I would like to hear from the author what prompted him to amend his proposal in this way. Does it not deserve a recommendation to force the States-General to explicitly discuss treaties with any binding provisions here in this Chamber? After all, only then can the people see why the States-General approves or rejects such a treaty. Only then can the population judge what it thinks of that attitude in First and Second Chambers. That is precisely what I thought of the original legislative proposal of the author: it forced the States-General to discuss explicitly the introduction of any binding provisions. This will improve transparency and transparency for citizens. Does the author's proposal, as I specifically ask him, not open the door again to a certain degree of secrecy and backroom politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr Van Raak waived his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Chairman. I have an input that might be a bit mirrored by the previous speaker. I would also like to thank Mr Taverne for his answer, for explaining the questions we put in the first period. I would also, of course, like to thank the Minister for the note and his reply. The essence of this debate was indeed whether there was a problem that needed a solution. In this context, we have heard many numbers of laws that have been tabled, which have been silently adopted, which have been discussed and so on. These figures are clear, because objective, but I am still not quite clear where the problem lies in society. I said in the first term that we should not be doing legal work here. We should not create bureaucracy because there is a treaty. We must not change our practices until it has been shown that something has gone wrong in society on several occasions. If there is only one example, there is still no problem. Then maybe it went wrong once. I have missed the answer to the question of where it went wrong in society in the first period of time. Can Mr Taverne comment on that? Does he think things are going wrong? Having said that, I am clear that Mr Taverne has drawn attention to what has been said in this Chamber. I have a strong impression that perhaps he can confirm that he has amended his law on the basis of what has been put forward here by several groups, including mine. I think that's wise. He has also said that he assumes a certain parliamentary self-confidence, and I have encouraged him to do so. Once we are well informed, we are also perfectly capable of assessing whether or not we should deal with a treaty here explicitly. What remains is the element that the Minister is now obliged to explain whether a treaty contains any binding provision or provisions. I think that's wise. Improving the information position of this Chamber is a continuous point of attention. If that's settled with this, that's okay. Then, of course, the need for separate sheets of paper in treaties lapses, I repeat, after the Minister. Then that's just how we arranged it. Finally, you may wonder whether, with the knowledge of today, now that this part of the initiative law has been left behind, an initiative law is not a bit of a heavy instrument. The answer to that is probably yes, but well, that's with the knowledge of today. We have had this debate. I have no objection to regulating it in this way now, although this, if we had not passed this exercise, could indeed have been arranged with a commitment or a motion or otherwise. It is not a revolution we are talking about here, but perhaps a small step and therefore an evolution. Finally, my group can support this amendment. With that, Mr Taverne will end up in a nice list, provided that the initiative law comes through this Chamber and later also through the Upper Chamber. This morning, we read in nrc.next that out of the 52 own-initiative proposals presented in this Chamber since September 2012, only 13.5% have so far reached the finish line. If you're sitting there, it's worth a congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Taverne and the Minister for answering the questions and for the promised note, which has also been issued and which gave a detailed picture of the existing practice. As I pointed out in the first term, my group fully understands Mr Taverne's point of principle on the current procedure for approving treaties. It often does not explicitly address the question of whether there are any binding Treaty provisions. According to the current system, citizens may be bound by certain treaty obligations without Parliament having spoken of them, because of the possibility of tacit approval. Our group also sees a gap there. However, for the time being we were not convinced of the original proposal of the initiator: a legal requirement for explicit approval of all treaties which may contain any binding treaty provisions. With the amendment of the legislative proposal, the initiator responds to the comments made by our group at least. Congratulations to the initiator for listening carefully to the debate in the Chamber and on that basis, with the knowledge of today you might not have done it that way; Mr De Roon was disappointed there with a proposal that we can support. In order for us as a Chamber to fulfil our role in the approval procedure for treaties better, it is important that any treaty submitted to the States-General for approval should indicate to the Government whether the Treaty contains, in its opinion, provisions which may link any person to the content as referred to in Article 93 of the Constitution and, if so, what provisions it concerns. This is also very important in the case of treaties which have been submitted for tacit approval, because this gives the Court a tool to break the procedure for tacit approval where appropriate. All this contributes to the democratic legitimacy of treaties. I therefore have no further questions to the initiator, nor to the Minister. I thank them both for the apparently cooperative cooperation. I didn't expect it to be any different, but it's nice to see that they took it so well together. I will therefore propose to my group to vote in favour of this initiative law. Thank you for the efforts that have been made and therefore also thanks to the staff, who have made their contribution in the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr. Chairman. The VVD wishes to thank the initiator and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for their reply. We are satisfied with that. I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister in the second term how we will proceed with the extension agreement between Burundi and the Netherlands. The reason why the CDA Group and the VVD Group wanted this for express approval is that there are some human rights issues in Burundi at the moment. Although that treaty will not enter into force immediately, we need to pay more attention to it, especially in the case of Burundi. I assume that the Foreign Minister agrees with the groups of the VVD and the CDA. The proposal for a law has been amended to abolish the possibility of tacit approval of treaties with any binding provisions to inform the States-General of any binding provisions. With this, the initiator responds to the criticism from the Chamber. We're pleased to hear that. This change, in our view, remains clear what the Netherlands is committed to in concluding a treaty. We are pleased that the change made has made the cabinet more positive about the legislative proposal. As Mr Knops said, it is always good to see that directors and initiators work constructively together. We also welcome the Foreign Minister's undertaking that the foreign administration will keep a record of the treaties which may be binding on each of them. We are pleased that this encouragement has been taken up. We agree with the Foreign Minister that there should be no more chips. We have no further supplementary questions to the initiator. We will hear from the Foreign Minister when we are able to see that treaty between the Netherlands and Burundi in the Chamber. The VVD Group will support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiator and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the first-term reply and, of course, for the letter of amendment and for the letter we may receive from the Minister. Compliments also for the establishment of the initiator. If this Minister's influence on his attitude is so great, then I can only regret that the influence of the Foreign Trade and Development Minister's opinions on Mr Taverne's attitude is so small. But there may still be room for that in the future. I would also like to congratulate Mr Taverne on his attitude towards the Chamber. He listened carefully to the debate in the first term. Whether it served a purpose or not, any treaty with any binding provision in it had to be subject to the express approval procedure, whether or not the Court saw fit to do so. I foresaw that delay and frustration would be the result. That would be a pity, because the initiator, I and I believe all parties in the Chamber share the same objective: the treatment of treaties can be really better from time to time. For this reason, my group asked for additional support from specialised staff in the handling of treaties when assessing the Court's budget. I wonder what the initiator and his party are like. As said, the original bill has been reduced. However, the essence of it may now emerge more clearly: if a treaty is presented, the government will indicate whether there are provisions in the treaty that bind everyone. That seems to me to be a sensible proposal. In this way, the Court will gain more insight into the consequences of a treaty and can better assess how the law should be dealt with, either implicitly or explicitly. All in all I am standing here with a much more positive feeling than in the first term. I certainly do not exclude the fact that this will translate into a vote for this bill in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u18	But you're gonna keep it exciting for a while, aren't you? So much for the second term of office. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to colleagues for their questions and comments and the support already expressed in part in advance. I am truly sorry to disappoint Mr De Roon. I understand that, in view of the changes that I have made, but I could, using my words, I paraphrase our Prime Minister, Mr Delors, a fine political feeling, rather than finding after the first term of the Chamber that the original proposal might have had less broad support. Then the question arose as to whether the better should be the enemy of good. I finally decided, in good consultation, to amend the proposal as I did. I think it does contain a number of improvements. That is also recognised. The mandatory nature on the part of the Chamber will indeed lapse. There was the greatest pain, but for this Parliament it is undoubtedly a gain that there is now a mandatory nature on the government's side to decide whether there are any binding provisions and, if so, which ones. Again, that helps the various state powers. That helps both us, the government and the judge to fulfil everyone's responsibility. That's where profit is decided. I understand that some people are wondering whether this should have been done in the event of a legislative change. I can even understand why it shouldn't have been for some people. But we have a law of approval and disclosure treaties. This seems to me to be a crucial part of this procedure. So I would find it a little crazy to do this with a commitment or motion, while there is a separate law, stronger, a national law for it. I am therefore pleased to taste support in the Chamber to do so by means of a legislative amendment. Well, I guess it's in the law. Then we do not need to check whether the government is complying with its commitments. Of course you don't have to. In any case, this will not only help us, but also our successors, possibly for years. Mr Servaes asked about the problem, but now focused on the problem in society. You'd almost start thinking in terminology like: who at the kitchen table notices anything about this? I am the first to admit that this is part of the more technical aspect of our co-legislative task, which may not immediately lead to heated debates in people's homes. However, this may well prevent a problem which may turn out to be in practice later and may lead to heated discussions. I therefore believe that prevention is better than cure. I am convinced that this will have that preventive effect. This is a little weave error in the law, and we'll fix it with this. As Mr Servaes rightly said, this is not a revolution but an evolution. That is exactly the right description of this process. I would like to thank Mr Knops, Mr Teven and Mr Sjoerdsma for their supportive remarks. Mr Sjoerdsma referred to what was discussed about extra staff in the Parliament's estimates. It is always good to think about how we can strengthen the position of this Parliament; this too is part of that. Some of my fellow Members here also know me as a Member of Parliament who likes to make an effort to strengthen the position of the Chamber. Extra staff would certainly be an opportunity for that. I have not done the debate on the estimates, and so I find it difficult to give a more substantive assessment, because this will undoubtedly cost money again. However, I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma clearly has a point concerning the optimal use of knowledge on this type of technical subject. I also note that, as I do at regular intervals, you can make good use of scientific knowledge within universities in the Netherlands. I have also noticed that literature is being written and discussed on this subject. Perhaps there are opportunities there, but other proposals I will go along with with with a great deal of flexibility. In my view, this has provided a response to all the questions and comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr Taverne explained why he had issued a second letter of amendment. The reason appears to be purely political-pragmatic; that is what Mr Taverne comes out for. I appreciate that, but I do have a question. If the government comes here with a bill, the general opinion of the Chamber may be that it is not worth discussing and that we are therefore making a hammer piece of it. However, every individual Member of Parliament has the right to say: I do not agree with that; I want that Chamberpiece to be "dehammed'. Then we're gonna talk about it here. That would make it clear to the public what each party thinks of that bill. When it comes to a treaty, that system does not work that way in the current situation. In fact, you have to deal with Article 5 of the Reichswet: if the government comes up with a treaty and we want it to be discussed explicitly, at least 30 members of this Chamber must say that they want the treaty to be discussed explicitly. In that case, the government must come up with a legislative proposal; then we will get back into the well-known procedure. In the proposal originally tabled by Mr Taverne, each individual Member of Parliament was given the right to say: the government is offering us a treaty with all binding provisions, and even though a majority of the Chamber does not think that we really need to discuss it, I think we should discuss it here. Then that would happen, too. Does Mr Taverne agree with me that he is actually being forced by the Chamber to undermine the rights of the individual Member of Parliament, whom he so beautifully guaranteed with his initial draft?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u21	You would almost think, also in view of the second term of the Chamber, that it is special that I listened to the Chamber; as if I were not particularly focused on it. Of course, that is not true, nor do I feel compelled. But I understand Mr De Roon's point very well. The obligation on the Court's part, when the government finds that a treaty already contains only one binding declaration, to deal with it, is a less serious problem than some think. 'Cause you could've made it a hammer piece. In this sense, this obligation can be overcome by the other possibilities this house has. But, yes, reality is what it is. I am particularly concerned with ensuring that the government does what it has to do when this proposal is adopted, namely to indicate whether or not it believes that this type of provision is in a treaty, and if so, what it is. In the end, it is up to the Chamber to decide whether or not to respond. That does mean it's non-compulsory. However, the Chamber must confess its colour. If further in the process of a treaty which the government considers to contain all binding provisions, the Chamber does not break the silence, after which a situation later arises in which it is not clear how to explain it, then the Court must explain why it at the time felt that the treaty should not be dealt with, so that parliamentary treatment and legal history are still lacking. I assume that this system will lead the Chamber to deal differently with the judgement of the cabinet or a treaty containing such a provision. Is that a different variant from the original proposal? Yes. Am I hopeful that practice will still turn out to be positive? Yeah, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u22	I thank Mr Taverne for this answer. It doesn't convince me, I have to say. I believe that what he has now done, under pressure from all kinds of parties in this Chamber, a majority of them, after all, leads to the possibility of certain treaties being dealt with in back rooms and thus expressly not being discussed in the Chamber. I'm sorry about that. On the other hand, however, I note that the legislative proposal, as it has now been watered down, still leaves a positive point, namely that the government is being forced to put an explicit label on such a treaty, which is: pay attention, any binding provision. That's it, though it's the low point of profit. That will be a reason for me to advise my group to accept it, but I very much regret that it has been watered down in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u23	Again, I get that. Let me reassure Mr De Roon: I did not feel pressure, but I listened carefully to the Chamber. But I am also very pleased that Mr De Roon recognises the benefits that the proposal still has. I thank him for his strong support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u24	I didn't need a second term. However, I would also like to inform the author that I, too, will advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u25	My gratitude and bliss cannot be greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u26	You're really going to be one of those 13% today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u27	It's okay to do it sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u28	You're going into recess whistling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u30	Will the Minister answer another question? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mr. Chairman. I still owe an answer to Mr Bitch on Burundi. We are not going to have a substantive debate on this right now. I just want to say that, of course, the government is also concerned about human rights in Burundi. There is much more to the role of the army, because we wanted to keep the flexibility to see if the only institution that still functions well multi-ethnically could not be supported when it protects human rights. That is a consideration on the part of the government. Mr Teeven said that he wanted to raise this issue explicitly in the House of Representatives. This is exactly an example of what good democratic control is. The government must now consider whether it wants to submit the draft law at all, because the average duration of treatment is about ten or eleven months, and this is a one-year treaty. I will discuss with my colleagues whether it makes any sense for us to table this bill. If that is the case, it will be after the summer. I would still like to take the opportunity to thank the Chamber for its input, in particular because it is not excluded that this initiative legislative proposal can count on a majority in the House of Representatives. I would like to thank Mr Taverne very much for the good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-5.u32	I thank the Minister for his presence and, of course, the initiators. We're going to vote on this initiative bill tonight, around the clock at quarter to one, according to the last schedule. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.30 a.m. and then we will talk about the evaluation Act on the parliamentary survey. So we're not gonna talk about this at noon, we're gonna talk about this at 11:30. The spokesmen must therefore be present earlier than was initially planned.
