ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week, actually at the very last minute, a permit was modified for a shipment of radioactive waste from Petten in North Holland to the storage site of COVRA, which stands for "Central Organization for Radioactive Waste" in Borssele. From Petten all the way to Borssele. When assessing how dangerous transport was, the presence of dangerous neutron radiation was overlooked, by the company NRG and by COVRA itself. Nor did the supervisor notice the error. Eventually, this month, COVRA itself called the bell when it was realized that a mistake was being made. It turned out that the waste that had to be transported was no less than four times as radioactive as previously assumed. This waste was transported from Petten in Noord-Holland along Amsterdam, straight through the Randstad and along Rotterdam all the way to Zeeland. How is it that the inspection has not previously indicated that the licence was not valid? How could that radiation be misjudged? Has that transport been done yet? How can we not know exactly what is in Petten and how to transport it? And perhaps the most frightening thing: what would it have meant if the permit had not been modified at the last moment? What risks would we have taken? What safety procedures were not complied with? What does the Cabinet say to all those people who live and work along the route of this transport? Nuclear safety must be at the forefront. People in the Netherlands really need to be able to rely on the fact that when waste goes from Petten to Zeeland, people know very well what is being done and that all safety regulations are being observed, because it happens very regularly and an exception clause to the safety regulations is being used very frequently. I have the great hope that the Secretary of State will be able to answer all these questions in order to reassure the people of the Netherlands that nuclear safety is really safe here and that all procedures will be followed carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I very much agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven on the latter. Nuclear safety is of the utmost importance. We must therefore do this very carefully. Perhaps it is also a good thing that I now have the opportunity, on behalf of the Minister, to provide a fact-check, as it is so beautifully called, with a factual account of a number of issues raised in a regional newspaper yesterday. What happened? There is no question that a train arrived at the COVRA last Wednesday with nuclear waste. In any case, it was about transport by road from two excess radioactive sources. How'd that go? On 20 July the ANVS authorised the transport of these two sources from the Nuclear Research & Consultancy Group (NRG) in Petten to the COVRA, the processor, in Vlissingen. On 10 November, a prior inspection by the ANVS and the ILT, our own inspection service, showed that the transport index of one of the sources after measurement was higher than had been requested. So the transport didn't take place at the time. A further request was subsequently made for the authorisation of a higher transport index to be amended. That sounds very firm, but that new transport was still within the range of the lightest form of transport. It just wasn't properly requested. A wrong number had been filled in. Transport safety is thus also guaranteed with this higher transport index. Therefore, there was no grounds for refusing to amend the authorisation. The waste transport authorisation was amended on 15 November. Then the transport took place after an inspection of us on 23 November. That's what happened. That is quite different indeed, let me be very careful about what I have read in the article, because from that there is a very different picture. That is, by the way, an image that I understand immediately that someone is asking questions about it. But here's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	Apart from the fact that there is talk of a train in the article when we know that this type of transport is going by road, I do not read at all that so much else has happened. An application has been made in which the figures have not been properly filled in. That's not the first time. My colleague Sjoerdsma has raised several written questions on the export of depleted uranium to Russia. It was also said at first that nothing was going on. Eventually, after two sets of questions, it was said that a mistake had been made with the licence application and that it should never have happened like this. I find it a little difficult to hear that this was a rather low category and that it is therefore not a bad thing that such a big mistake has been made, a mistake in which the waste turned out to be four times as radioactive. We are lucky that it has come to light in a place where it has not yet been able to do very much harm. We must, of course, ensure that the system is watertight; I assume that the Secretary of State agrees with me. Whether it's light or heavy radioactive waste, we need to make sure the system doesn't fail. It cannot then be that an application is made on 20 July and it is only months later that it is found out that it is four times more radioactive. If the system is so structured that we make mistakes like this, it's a concern. I mentioned the example of Russia earlier. Those mistakes were made there too. I'm glad the Secretary of State said that nuclear safety must be beyond question. Such mistakes may not occur. How can we create a system in which these kinds of requests cannot be made? In Russia, the export licence was simply granted. That shouldn't have happened afterwards. So we see that this happens more often. How can we avoid that with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	I'm saying two things about this. I understand that next week the Chamber will have an extensive debate with Minister Schultz on the wider issue. I just don't have Russia's case right now. You'll have to forgive me, because I'm filling in. I am doing what you are asking me to do as well and as badly as I can, namely to respond to what was going on in this case. In this case, the system has not failed. The applicant made a mistake here, but the system was able to prevent the transport from actually taking place. After inspection it appeared that there was indeed no agreement between the application for the material and the actual amount of radioactivity, and so it has been said: this does not happen, you have to apply for a licence again. So the system actually ensured that the transport could not take place according to a wrong permit and that the company had to re-apply for a new permit. It was granted and then actually authorised for transport only after inspection. I understand Mrs Van Veldhoven's question, but in this case I would think that the system has done its job. You really need to debate the other case with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	I can't quite agree with the Secretary of State. The company's making an application. Our inspection will have to check that application is correct. Then the COVRA has to say: that's good, I accept that stuff. It was only at the COVRA that they found out that it was wrong. The inspection initially approved the transport. It is only after that that the emergency brake is pulled: just before the transport takes place it comes to the conclusion that it is not correct. Between 20 July and 10 November this should have come to light. I am concerned that we have missed that step. I fully understand that the Secretary of State does not have the facts in a row. You can't. However, mistakes have been made before, and they are materials that we simply cannot afford to make mistakes with. That's why I'm worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	We have no doubt about the latter. This can and must not be done. The system of checks-and-balances around the inspection and the way in which actual inspection takes place when the transport is going to find plate should simply function. What I have in fact is that before the transport actually took place there was action on the basis of measurements. You always have to measure literally at the source. Then you'll know if it's true. You can't just do that on paper. If you get an application for a factor 2 and it turns out to be 6 or 8..... by the way, it all falls within the range of 10................................................................................................... Then you can also say: the transport must not continue. This has also happened in this case. Then we had to put the paperwork in order again. It was then checked again at the source if it was true. It was only then that permission was granted for the actual disposal of those sources. Once again, if Mrs Van Veldhoven thinks that there is a need for more to be done in addition to the whole system or that things should be done differently, I would like to refer her to the debate with the Minister next week. This is how the situation was in this case, as I have been presented to him. I think it is good that at least we have that clear with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	Technically, we're running out of time, but we happen to be a little over time, so you're asking one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u8	We should not have the situation in the Netherlands with nuclear waste that, when the truck is already ready with a running engine and we are still measuring whether it is all right, we will find out that it is not right. If the company makes an application, the ANVS must at that time make sure that the application is correct. So it can't be that you only find out at the transport that the factor is four times as high as the application indicates. Well, then we're just one step late, aren't we? I hope that the Secretary of State agrees with me that it is better for the ANVS to carry out the checks properly and work carefully at the beginning. If it is necessary to tighten up the system for this purpose, I will indeed bring it up again in the debate with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u9	I really have to wait and see, because I can imagine that in that debate the Minister will want to elaborate much further on what is happening at the front of the whole process of checks-and-balances. I imagine there are. I can also imagine that sometimes a mistake is made. Then the core is crucial that there is no transport except after control. That's the last time you can intervene. I have to say that, fortunately, this has been well done in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u10	The CDA shares the concerns of the D66 Group. Our group is always positive about the fact that we have nuclear power and that we have knowledge of nuclear power. That's why it's so important that it's safe. I am right to hear the Secretary of State say that she cannot look into the whole procedure, but is she prepared to send a letter with her colleague Schultz on how this works? If that truck is ready to leave, then we have missed a few steps. Of course you have those last checks, so that that truck can stay, but of course it doesn't have to come to that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u11	We can do that. I think it would be a good idea for us to go into it again in writing for the general discussion next week, including the previous one. The determination that this requires extreme care is shared by all of us. In relation to the comment on nuclear energy, I would like to make the personal remark that I have not yet reached this stage. Can you check it out? Nevertheless, we simply have radioactive material, including for health care. Hospitals regularly dispose of a few things. That is a type of transport similar to what took place in this case. Nevertheless, it must be done with great care. There should be no doubt as to whether procedures are in order. Let's write that out for the Chamber one more time. Then she can have a debate with the Minister on whether all the safety valves are on it in all cases. We have seen here that it did work. Transport did not take place except after the inspection had completely approved it and it was true according to the permit finally issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-3.u13	This brings us to the end of the answer to the oral questions, with warm thanks to the Secretary of State. I'll suspend the meeting in a minute. After the suspension we say goodbye to Mr Van Veen. We shall then vote on it. For those who are concerned that I would lead that vote, I would like to say that Mrs Arib will be chairing the sitting again from that moment on.
