ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister of Security and Justice to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. The members of the CDA Group have taken note with more than ordinary interest of the proposed budget change. Earlier this year and last year, we have already called for attention to be paid to strengthening our rule of law. That's a big good. You know how much we, but also many other groups here, attach importance to a well-functioning criminal justice chain. This calls for a police force, a Public Prosecutor's Office and a judiciary with sufficient resources and capacity to continue to do their often difficult work properly. If we look at this budget change, we have to or can see that extra money will be provided for the police, but then we are also disappointed by the moderate willingness of this cabinet to do something substantial about the structural underfunding that is being provided by the police, justice and justice. We have to note that there was no majority on the other side of the Binnenhof to amend this spring note, this budget amendment. On this side of the Binnenhof we cannot amend. That is why the CDA Group, like the other political groups, is in favour of the choice of 'we'. It is a dilemma, a struggle to agree to this document or to agree to it. The latter, of course, is not attractive, because then we will deny the police the 188 million that has been promised. However, agreement is not attractive either, because this budget change is much less repaired than we had in mind when our group chairman made a move for it last year. There is not enough for the police and there is nothing at all for the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary. Maybe the Minister can help us in our struggle. Maybe he can explain how he thinks that structural underfunding should be resolved in the years to come. Several reports refer to this structural underfunding. I will not mention them all, but this is mentioned in the report of the Galan Group, in the P&M study and in the counter-expertise of André de Jong. As far as I am concerned, this is a very serious and fundamental question. I am asking this question with some empathy and with some emphasis, because even though the elections are approaching and there is a deadline, there will always be a government for this country and there will always be a legislator. They must look ahead and ensure that the rule of law is put right. In our view, this calls for a structural investment in the coming years to put the judiciary, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office in order, both in terms of capacity and financial resources. I would like to know what the Minister thinks should be done to deal with this structuralally, not for the coming months or year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u3	Madam President. On 15 December 2015, this Chamber discussed the 2016 Justice Budget. That fact in itself was very special, as this Chamber rarely actually deals with budget proposals. That is why this debate has been given an above-average meaning for a reason. An important and unanimously shared theme was concerns about financial and functional risks resulting from continued cuts in key players in the criminal justice chain, namely police, OM, law enforcement and justice. The relationship between ambitions, resources and time proved vulnerable. Furthermore, it was found that the acceptance rate of almost all stakeholders in the legal practice for the policies pursued and planned was substantial and decreased. To this day, ongoing affairs continue to affect political and social confidence in the megalomaniac ministry. The Court found in December that the irresponsible filling of gaps in the justice budget should be stopped. The increasing pressure on the legal system as a result of budget pressures is no longer justified. A sound financial basis under justice policy, to be achieved in the Spring Paper, was then the commitment of the 22nd December. unanimously accepted English motion. It urged the government to bring the budget of V and J to a level that minimises the risks of shortages and poor performance in the police, prosecutors and the judiciary. In doing so, the Chamber supported the Minister to do business in the Cabinet and to put an end to structural underfunding in the justice chain. A repetition exercise at both the Lower House and the Upper House could and should be avoided. Under that condition, the budget was subsequently accepted by the Court. The Group of the Party of European Socialists now finds that this motion has not been carried out. The supplementary budget only includes an additional 49 million for the use of the police in asylum policy. All other necessary and intended investments are included in the 2017 budget, as I understand from the reporting. My appeal to the Minister to prevent us from meeting again because of the Spring Paper has, in other words, proved to be in vain. A joyless conclusion, so I add. My political analysis is that the Minister has gone to the Minister of Finance and the Council of Ministers. The Minister did not get through, despite an unmistakeable signal from a unanimous senate. We have even had to learn from the media that the Minister of Finance is done complaining from police, prosecutors and judiciary. The arrogance and short-sightedness that this shows are of deep sadness. The pillars of our rule of law have thus been removed without any form of process with a single sound. On 15 June the Minister of V and J was rightly placed on the grill in the House of Representatives about these statements made by his colleague. In the light of the principle of homogeneity laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure for the Council of Ministers, he has been repeatedly asked to indicate whether he shares or disagrees with this statement by Mr van Financiën. The only answer the House of Representatives has received is that the Minister is behind his people. That was the wrong answer. The minister should have explicitly distanced himself from the disqualification of his fellow minister of finance towards the police, the prosecutor and the judiciary. Then he really would've gone behind his people. I would like to ask the Minister whether this was not a better answer on second thought and is the evasive and uncomfortable twist in the House of Representatives. My group cannot understand why the Minister has been so easily dismissed by a colleague. The rest of the Second Chamber debate has also proved to be torture, primarily for the Minister, but also for the House of Representatives, where feelings of disbelief, bewilderment and impotence fought for priority. Even a final attempt, made on 30 June, to try to add another 185 million to the budget by amendment, particularly for the police, the public prosecutor's office and the judiciary. The key message of the Minister is: 'I fear that we will hear it again and again today 'that he has done a terrible job in the Council of Ministers, is well in conversation with all stakeholders and has pulled 300 million out of the fire by 2017.' However, it should be up to every Minister of Justice or her honour to discuss this matter again with both Chambers. I ask the Minister why he is trying to keep up appearances that the budget is in order and why he is suggesting to the outside world that he has responded to all expectations towards the Spring Paper. It will be clear that my group is displeased with this course of action. Firstly, it is displeased because necessary investments in a better functioning legal chain are lacking and therefore far too little progress is being made. The signals from the police, the prosecutor and the judiciary about the vulnerability of the necessary quality level are unabatedly worrying. For example, I would like to refer to an article by the Vice-President and the Director of the Council for the case law in the NJB of 17 June. There are signs about it; Mr Rombouts has already mentioned it. Secondly, my group is displeased because a clear and unambiguous motion, the outcome of a clean and depoliticized debate in this House, has simply been ignored. Of the additional, necessary investments requested in police, OM and justice, it is clear that this is not to be found in the supplementary budget. What effect should the Chamber have on this? For the current budget, it is politically and also constitutionally pointless to send the minister again with a message from the First Chamber. Trying to amend a budget by way of motion is a monstrum under state law. As far as the 2017 budget is concerned, the coalition has already taken decisions and, in my opinion, should first judge the House of Representatives after Princess Day. Nor does my group feel that it should abstain from supporting this supplementary budget; I want to be very clear about that. The paradoxical consequence will be that, on balance, there will be even less money to V and J and that asylum policy in particular will suffer. The additional injection of 250 million by letter of amendment will not take place, as will the previously earmarked amounts of 800 million for the asylum chain and 100 million additional salary areas for the police. The same applies to the only additional expenditure of 49 million for police asylum tasks. All that's not gonna happen. That is why my group will not vote for this counterproductive approach. In other words, the political reality at the moment is that there seems to be little possibility of achieving a better result for the 2016 Justice Budget after this failure. It is clear that my group is deeply disappointed by the negligible outcome of the debate that took place in December. I must add that, within my group, confidence in this minister has been severely damaged. My group wants to try today to get something together with the Minister before 2016. Unabated concerns about the quality of performance in the chain of law require and justify this attempt. But again, much will depend on the Minister's attitude. I would add that I hope that it will be different from what it has been until now. In the situation that has arisen today, I would like to ask the Minister today, with the police, OM and justice, to identify the most necessary measures to address the most serious financial problems in terms of quality of performance this year and then to consider what financial instruments, such as under-exhaustment, use of the cash drawer or a redeployment of resources, can be met. I am thinking in particular of the Navy Note. I urge the Minister to make a commitment on this point towards the Navy's note, so that we can hopefully refrain from tabling a motion to that effect. That motion is still on my table; I should have had it in the bag and then held it up, but someone else is doing it now. I would like to add that if this commitment is not made immediately and one hundred percent, I will not hesitate to submit that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u4	Mr. Chairman. "The lack of watertight EU external border control and the wide scope for free travel in the Schengen area provide an opportunity for terrorists to move to and within Europe." This is not a quote from the PVV, but from the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security, the NCTV. Bringing in millions of migrants in Europe is not only destroying our culture, it is also importing terrorism. That terrorism is certainly not going to go away by itself. If we want to put an end to the Allahoe akbar attacks, such as in Orlando, Paris and Zaventem, we must act quickly. Our safety is under great pressure. Looking away, pamping and drinking tea only make this worse. While our security is under great pressure and we need the commitment of our police more than ever before, it lacks millions of dollars to do its job. The additional tasks assigned to the national police because of the increased influx of asylum and the terrorist threat have not even been taken into account. In the House of Representatives, my party tabled the Helder amendment and the Wilders motion to deduct EUR 250 million from the additional funds released in the Spring Paper for the alien chain and to use EUR 200 million for the national police and EUR 50 million for the Public Prosecutor's Office. The amendment and the motion have unfortunately been agreed in the House of Representatives. That is completely incomprehensible to my group. It is incomprehensible that billions are spent every year on a crumbling Eurofelt dream, on the Greeks, on the dictator Erdogan and on development aid, on money that disappears into the pockets of dictators. It is also hard to understand that our borders remain wide open even after Zaventem and Paris. It is also not understood that asylum centre after asylum centre is being rigged in empty care homes or schools and that asylum seekers, depending on the municipality in which they are placed, receive €10,000 to set up their homes. Above all, it cannot be understood that our heroes in the national police force, who have to ensure that we are and remain safe, are simply being dismissed with empty promises and a bump. The position of the PVV is clear: close the borders immediately, stop the asylum system, stop the influx of all those migrants, who are usually not trained at all and will not contribute to our prosperity and economy, and stop rigging up all those asylum centres where migrants make the neighborhood unsafe. Get jihadgoers off the street. Do not stop them from going, but turn them out of the country and never let them come back. If they come back, pick them up and get them off the street. And stop the Islamization that threatens our culture and our security. My party voted against the V and J budget and will also vote against it. The reason for this is simple: as long as funds from the V and J budget can be spent on the asylum system and not on our security, my group votes against. My group wants to close the gap with the national police. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Popken, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Weerdenburg, Mr Kok, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Kops proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to use EUR 200 million of the extra money spent on asylum reception in 2016 for investments in national police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34485-VI-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u5	Mr. Chairman. At the end of last year we had the debate here on the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice. There was a remarkable consensus on this budget: it was too low and did not solve the structural problems faced by the chain partners. The Minister did not break the consensus: he recognized the problems and also the need for additional funding, and he promised to fight within the cabinet and to come up with solutions to the Spring paper. He therefore endorsed Mr Engels' motion, which called for a closing budget to the Spring Note, so that risks of possible shortages and inadequate performance in justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police would be reduced to a minimum. Thus the debate ended harmoniously; the senators secured their gunpowder for a while, because after so much recognition and promises about the Spring note you had to give the minister a respite. Well, Mr President, that respite did not bring us much further. In the area of asylum, the budgets have been substantially increased, albeit still largely from ODA funding. An additional budget has been allocated to the police, mainly for restructuring and collective agreements, but the Spring Paper does not provide additional investment for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice. In these areas in particular, the Minister had shown that investments are needed to ensure better quality in structural terms. The Minister referred several times to ongoing research during the budgetary procedure, depending on which budget is needed. Even then, the Chamber had doubts about the usefulness of all that extra investigation. After all, we have had so many reports and a number of problems have been evident for a long time. Okay, that time has been given to validate all the necessary resources and then repair them to the Spring Note. It is all the more surprising that a six months later the Minister simply uses the same argument again. With regard to the prosecution, the Minister writes that he is considering within the cabinet what is needed and possible to strengthen the criminal justice chain. Then why hasn't that happened in the last six months? To this end, the Minister promised the necessary investments now, in the spring note. On the additional money needed for justice, the Minister negotiates with the Council for the case law on the 2017-2019 budget. The Minister told us in December that the Council would not have sufficiently substantiated a claim for justice during the negotiations and that this support would be forthcoming in the spring. Has it come and why has it not led to a higher budget? And how dependent does the Minister really want to make himself dependent on a negotiation? Does the Minister himself recognise that the workload is dangerously high and that, at least in the coming years, it is more threatened than reduced by the introduction of KEI? And what if the savings entered due to KEI were not feasible? Will the case-law be compensated for this? Of course, we have already heard about this this afternoon, namely that the case law must establish the reserves and then, if necessary, be supplemented by general resources. However, this means that justice should go all the way to the bottom of the reserves. I'd still like to get a reaction to that. The Minister now writes that extra money for justice is no longer needed because the judiciary no longer has to finance the vacant position in the buildings. After all, it has been promised to fill the vacancy in the courts in cooperation with the Ministry of Housing and the Rijksdienst. This is my group's wishful thinking. It will not be that easy to find suitable tenants in the short term. Will the vacancy continue to be printed on the case-law until such time as the rental has been successful? Then the responsibility lies unilaterally with the courts. Why doesn't the Minister just take over that responsibility? The case law would then really be rid of that cost. If the quality of justice is to be guaranteed with these kind of buttery agreements, my group doubts whether the Minister is aware of the urgency of the problems. What are we to deduce from these delay manoeuvres? Has the Minister been a combatant and has he defended the judicial chain on fire and on the sword? And if so, why did he drag in such a lousy loot? Or didn't he just try because he really felt that it wasn't so clear and that there had to be another investigation, a negotiation and a validation? How long can you allow bottlenecks to remain unpunished, while the social unrest, for example about our insecurity and the rule of law, is increasing further? Does the Minister really have the ambition to make the entire judicial chain robust and effective again? However, this Minister is committed to measures that seem tough but are legally dubious and increase insecurity rather than decrease. I am thinking here of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship and its own contribution to those convicted; for example, I can mention a few legislative proposals. The Minister seems less concerned about the work of the chain for sound financing, and the craftsmanship. That is what my group is concerned about. This also applies to the 2017 budget, which now has to make everything right. What can the Minister say about this post-budget process? He said this afternoon he's not gonna tell me about it, but I'd love to hear about it later. In any case, my group does not want to be surprised at Prinsjesdag and therefore asks the Minister to keep us informed in the coming months of possible research results in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the case law and the results of the negotiations with the chain partners, as well as to arrange the necessary additional resources in the Navy note. I therefore agree with Mr Engels' request. It is good that the asylum reserve has been supplemented and that for the first time in a long time, the government is taking the risk with the budget for asylum reception. However, my group continues to find it incomprehensible and very unsatisfactory that this reserve should be paid for such an important part of the ODA budget. In doing so, we welcome the support of the poorest in the world to fulfil our international duty here. Asylum seekers have been waiting too long for their asylum procedures to start. But even the eight-day procedure itself is not always reached once they can submit the request, on which people are often sent back to the shelter with the message that the decision can last for up to nine months. It is fine if it is necessary for more careful research, but it is not if it is because there is no time. For refugees, the future will only begin with the granting of a status. Then the family members can happen and Dutch lessons can be taken. It is therefore important that the organisation should focus on providing clarity as soon as possible. What is the average time limit within which a decision is taken at the moment? My group welcomes the additional budget for the IND, but are there any objectives attached to reducing this waiting period? The Minister in the Lower House has advised against a D66 amendment to use part of the asylum reserves for Dutch language lessons from day one after entry. The Minister had problems with the coverage and found the split between "chance" and "less likely" difficult to work. But what is the Minister's point of view on how to learn and orientate quickly after arrival on Dutch society? After all, we know that long waiting times filled with uncertainty and doing nothing will be detrimental to integration later. This actually creates a cynical policy: in the first year and a half they are not allowed to learn Dutch, but after the authorisation they must learn Dutch. The WRR is ready-to-use in its opinion: there is not a second to lose with integration. Still, we're doing it again. We are postponing family reunification, and the lack of Dutch lessons during the asylum procedure only increases the backlog of refugees rather than reduces them. Making people resilient and self-sufficient is a goal that this minister believes in, isn't it? Is the Minister simply going to keep saying no and stick to the status quo? Or is the problem recognised and the search for ways of getting integration started during the reception and the procedure? I come to my final point. During the budget debate, the Minister and I discussed the individual right of complaint in the various human rights conventions. At that time, the Minister promised to ensure that at least the optional protocol to the UN International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights would be submitted to the House of Representatives this year and that he would make an effort to ensure broad support there. What has been the outcome of these efforts so far? Is there a request for advice from the Council of State? At what time can the submission to the Lower House be expected? The Minister knows that after the recess in the parliamentary year there are still less than four months left. In addition, the Minister would come forward with a further response to the individual right of complaint under the Children's Rights Convention and the Disability Convention. As far as the latter is concerned, the Minister has already heard from his colleague, Mr Van Rijn, that he has promised to send a letter to the First Chamber before the summer recess. For that, this Secretary of State has exactly one week left. This must and will have been discussed in the Cabinet. I'd like to get a reaction to this. It is not my hobby to repeat here all the time, but unfortunately the cabinet leaves me no choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u6	Mr. Chairman. The treatment of a supplementary budget is a rarity in the Upper House. Such a budget mainly involves changes during the current financial year and comes just before the summer recess. Two more meeting days and it's Princess' Day again. However, there is reason for the Christian Union Group to speak on this proposal now. Actually, we have two reasons. The first reason for this debate is the following. Despite our great concern, we agreed to the Justice budget in December. The Minister made a promise that real solutions would be presented in the spring note. They're not enough right now. The Ministry of Security and Justice continues to work with a squatting budget, which still contains gaps for the police, justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is not what we had in mind when we agreed to the budget. The second reason for this debate is the following. This summer Princess Day will be prepared again and again. I keep, frankly, bad memories of the previous Justice budget, which was presented in September 2015. The declarations for 2016 were not recognised. It was only in the course of the autumn that the cabinet began to move. The remaining task would be incorporated into the Spring Note. And now it is said again that in the next budget, which for 2017, everything will be fine. After a disappointing Prinsjes Day in 2015 and a modified heel-over-the-sloot budget in December, with promises for spring, which will then be reduced to less in spring, a trend is emerging. This trend must stop and not be the guideline for the next Justice budget and the plans to be presented on Princess Day. This budget is cracking. Actually, the Minister admits that, too. That is why he comes up with this supplementary budget. My group was looking forward to that because we hoped that it would do justice to the motion tabled by Mr Engels, whom we have wholeheartedly supported. In the motion, the government was called upon to come up with a balanced budget in the spring note, which would minimise the risks of possible shortages and inadequate performance in case law, prosecutors and police. In recent weeks, however, it became clear once again that the Public Prosecutor's Office is threatened by a critical lower limit. Priorities cannot be met. The first signs are that, for example, dealing with trafficking in human beings requires so much that there are far fewer cases of trafficking in human beings. It would even be 20% less business. That's very serious. The Annual Report of the Public Prosecutor shows that one in ten cases is dismissed for faults in the minutes, that cybercrime is becoming larger and more complicated to detect and tackle and that more ICT investment is needed. At the same time, all kinds of reports have made it clear that the bottom of the treasury has been reached and that additional targets or imbalances in the criminal justice chain can only be met by reducing operational strength. Nevertheless, I read in the annual report of the Public Prosecutor himself that there are also for 2016, 2017 and further additional targets for the Public Prosecutor and are booked. The Public Prosecutor's Summit clearly states that there is already a deficit for 2016. I understand it's 17 million. What answer does the government give in the spring note and the supplementary budget? I see no clear analysis of the risks and no adjustment to prevent the deficit. I only see regular mutations. The rest should be dealt with in the next budget. I come to the situation in justice. This morning we have already talked about the large-scale ICT investments that are needed and about the quality impact that suits them. As far as the case-law is concerned, it was already clear from the budgetary procedure that there would be 30 million losses this year, with 15 million remaining to come out of reserves; then the reserves are exhausted. On the basis of the debates last autumn and December, I expected a repair to take place here. Moreover, there is a very critical report from the General Court, which talks about structural under-financing of justice since the adjustment of the budgetary system in 2010. At the time, I was pleased to note the Minister's decision not to close the courts in the country. However, it is still unclear how this will be paid. And even now, in the supplementary budget, I read that only the regular changes are entered. Is that the answer to the English motion? Does the Minister really think that the risks have been reduced to a minimum? Every week, if not more often, the newspapers read that there are shortages in the police, that the search quality is falling, that the Police College is failing, that the problems in the ICT field are big, that absenteeism is high and that driving times are not in order. A superficial reading of the Spring paper provides good news: 188 million will be allocated. Further reading and recalculating results in the following: 49 out of 188 million comes from the resources made available in the Spring Note for the additional costs arising from the refugee problem and the remaining 139 million was already made available in the November 2015 budget letter. That's not new money! If I read it correctly, I would like to hear a confirmation from the Minister of Agriculture, and one third of this amount is earmarked for collective agreements and 86 million is a partial compensation for structural deficits. Previously, the P&M study resulted in a deficit of up to 140 million in 2016. This still means a 54 million hole. I have not yet talked about other setbacks and the signals that the police must also help to compensate for the further financial problems of the Ministry. Even if we are reluctant, the police deficit is tens of millions. Both the Public Prosecutor's Office, the justice system and the police are sending out a clear, but alarming signal. Living on this basis will have implications for operational strength and thus for the effectiveness of the criminal justice chain. I haven't even talked about the Ministry itself, which is responsible for the Judicial Institutions Department, where annual cuts are made and absenteeism is high year after year, and which has promised many measures to stop the series of incidents in recent years. Meanwhile, the Ministry is also preparing the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Is it really possible to start such a grand operation, now that almost all parts of the criminal justice chain are in severe weather? Every day we see the great work done by men and women in the criminal justice chain. While the threat of terror is still high, the arrival of refugees causes a lot of tension in society and crime is increasingly complex in its forms, daily hard work is being done on the safety of the Netherlands, with results. It is particularly good how all these policemen and women, the justice system and the Public Prosecutor's Office continue to do a lot of work, while their organisation and funding have been restless for years, to say the least. I would like to express my deepest appreciation for the commitment of all these people. At the same time, it is incomprehensible that the most classical government task, the care of justice and thus the guarantee of security, now all the years of the Cabinets have Rutte schralhans as their master. This ministry is allowed to show the latest gaps in the clothing at the Ministry of Finance every year and is then spelled up after persistent complaints or whining, a few new squares or a set of new kneepieces. Moreover, the Minister of Finance has also indicated that it must now be ready. It is true that whining is very annoying, but then it must also be ensured that the basis is in order. I wonder what the cabinet's vision is: is this whining or is something else going on here? Should a budget be based on wishful thinking and lists from the newspapers of the weeks before or should there be a clear analysis of what is needed to carry out the classic public service properly and carefully, with room for a single setback? That is precisely why I ask the Minister: come up with a more thorough story, list the reports, create a coherent picture of what is needed and attach policy conditions to them! Let 2016 be the year in which the Ministry of Justice's budget is provided with a solid basis and stop pushing!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u7	Mr. Chairman. If there is one thing citizens expect from their government, it is to ensure their safety. Feelings of insecurity are frantic for our well-being. Security is therefore one of the undisputed core tasks of the government. It is therefore very regrettable to note that the cabinet is failing in this area. I call our exuberant military force, which is eaten from the inside, but also today's theme: it is too casual to deal with our security chain. It is particularly painful that the cabinet has not yet really understood the scale of the security challenges. It is particularly painful that opposition parties should take the lead in investing sufficiently in security. Meanwhile, the distress signals from the field are clear and clear. If I have to mention them all separately, from the case-law, the prosecution, the police, the NFI, then I am out of my speaking time. These are real distress signals, not from beggars, but from people who perform hurrahs every day. Even the organisation that has been hired for this purpose, the General Court, finds that there are serious shortcomings in both the defence and security and the justice system. Ambitions and money aren't on the same page. That is why our safety is at stake. A concrete example is the time of the police in the countryside: you can be happy when a policeman shows up in distress. You just have to be very patient... The Minister is deaf not only to all the distress signals, but also to the political signals. During the last budget debate, this Chamber expressed its support for the budget, but under the condition that additional money would be added to the spring note to solve acute security problems. The minister promised a combative attitude, but now he's standing with virtually empty hands. The same applies to this Chamber. There's no delivery and we've been kept quiet with a sweetener. Even the recent Van Toorenburg amendment was certainly not too demanding. In no serious way has the Minister made any concessions to the constructive efforts of the opposition. Apparently, the Minister is counting on the Chamber to finally agree to the Spring Note. There's gonna be another promise for next year. There will be a bit of powerplay and threaten with the black guy if the opposition starts to cross. But that's not how we got married, Minister! The SGP wants butter with the fish now. It is difficult to digest that 160 million can be found for Marten and Oopjen without problems, but there is no extra money for the safety of Ard and Ninette. From the treatment in the Lower House, I note that the additional resources required are provided and available for 2017. Some expenditure has been brought forward in order to have room for manoeuvre in the budget next year. The Spring Note shows that in order to optimise the cash flow of the State, some of the obligations to the transport companies for the OS student card for 2017 will be paid in advance in 2016. Why are payments being brought forward when it comes to the student card, but not for the sake of security? I'm talking about a simple cash drawer to honor some of the many pleas from the field and the broad opposition. I urge the Minister to show more flexibility and look forward to his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u8	Mr. Chairman. The fact that we have to debate the Spring Paper 2016 here today is a clear sign in itself. After the debate in this House of 22 December 2015 on the 2016 budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice, we were quite entitled to assume that the Minister would ensure that the necessary resources for the police, the Public Prosecutor, the NFI and the judiciary would be made available in good time. That is all the more so because this Chamber in December 2015 is the English motion (34300-VI, O). adopted unanimously In that motion, the Chamber unanimously urged the Minister to arrive at a balanced budget in the forthcoming Spring paper, which is currently under discussion, on the basis of the results of investigations and negotiations, which would minimise the risks of possible shortages and poor performance in the case of justice, prosecutors and police. It should not be forgotten that in recent years this Chamber has repeatedly expressed its deep concern about the consequences of the austerity measures, which is one of the main causes in the field of V and J. I refer, for example, to the motion by Mr Franken, our former CDA colleague, of 13 January 2015 and the Brinkman motion of 13 October 2015. In the first motion, this Chamber asked the government to refrain from the proposed cuts in the amount of 85 million legal aid financed and to seek alternative financing options. In the second motion this Chamber asked the government to agree to reconsider the budget of V and J and to make additional investments. In addition, on 22 December 2015, the government announced in this Chamber, through Minister Kamp, that the government saw the motion English as a support in the back of the minister when considering the budget of V and J. In the meantime, however, it has become clear that the maximum combatibility promised by the Minister to this Chamber has not led to the closing of the gaps in the budget. This means that the Chamber was wronged by the government on 22 December 2015 and that the government did not implement the unanimously adopted motion. If we now look at the outcome of the spring note in the light of the commitment made by the government and the English motion, and in the light of the state of affairs in the police, OM, NFI and justice, then we must note that the situation in these institutions is so acute that additional substantial financial resources are urgently needed. Others have also explained this with a number of examples. We also see that the V and J budgets are still not sound. The government should therefore, in our opinion, still adjust the 2016 budget in the direction desired by the Chamber. That is precisely why a number of parties in the Lower House have tabled the Van Toorenburg amendment. But the government parties have rejected this motion cum annexis. In the explanatory statement to the Van Toorenburg amendment, the major financial problems of police, OM, NFI and the judiciary and their harmful consequences were highlighted, not only for the organisations themselves but also for society as a whole. I refer to the speakers before me, who have already explained this. In his response to this, the Minister did not deny the problems mentioned in fact, but took the view that sufficient funds were available for the year 2016 and that the coverage mentioned in the House of Representatives was not valid. However, he did not give a conclusive statement of reasons for that view. On the other hand, it has been found that the situation in the police, OM, NFI and the judiciary requires substantial additional resources to operate at an adequate level. In view of these circumstances, it should be concluded that the government did not implement the English motion of 22 December 2015, at least not sufficiently. I'll come back later on to the consequences of that. During the debate in this Chamber on the budget of V and J for 2016 on 15 December 2015, I indicated extensively and motivated that the years of austerity in the field of V and J have caused serious damage to these institutions as well as to society. As usual, the Minister has denied this observation but, as usual, has not rejected it. In the past six months, thanks to the promised efforts of the Minister and the additional money promised in the budget, the image of V and J may have changed. Then there might be no reason to ask for more money now. So let us look at the current state of affairs. I'll start with the police. When I say it's a headache file, I put it mildly. With the police, the state of affairs is absolutely worrying. The previous speaker has explained this neatly. As she said, not a week goes by or there is another calamity to report. And in many cases the lack of money plays a role in this, if not the main role. And then the D.A.'s office, which we don't know as an organization that complains soon. But there too, it goes wrong because of excessive cuts. As it is called, the alarm clock is ringing. The delay in major criminal investigations and trials in particular is unabated, again caused by a shortage of skilled staff and resources. This depends on the problematic financial position of the Dutch Forensic Institute, which is about to fall over. If that institute doesn't work anymore, the consequences can be found again with the police and the state attorney's office. And then justice, as an independent body part of the trias politicians, the basis of our democratic rule of law. There has also been a great deal to do in recent times. We talked about this this afternoon. An important moment was the inquiry of the judges of the Counter-Light Group. This survey, which has responded no less than 35% of all judges, is best translated as one major warning to the government that our case law is in severe weather or, as one says, has failed. The causes are well known: the austerity and the administration of justice. Or is it even better to call it the accounting of the case law? Independent justice has become a product of the neoliberal government. Vision, where present, and content are subject to a closing accounting. As long as the accounts are correct, the government says it's okay. I understand that this debate here today does not provide a sufficient opportunity to reflect in depth on this issue which concerns the foundations of the democratic rule of law, but if we want to understand and resolve the malaise of justice, that aspect will not go undisputed. For the time being, however, I would like to point out that the combination of years of austerity on the one hand and far-reaching control on the other is a serious threat to justice and, consequently, to the rule of law. But, and this is sometimes overlooked, it is also a violation of citizens' rights. Lack of justice, for example, read the Counter-Lightening Survey, after all, means that citizens pay the toll. The day-to-day legal practice shows compelling examples of this. I will mention one example that has recently become me. A case took place at one of our courts in the Netherlands. After a long time of waiting, the court decided to summon the parties for a compatibility. We know all about that since this afternoon. At that compatibility, where the court's three counsellors presided, the first statement from the President of the Court to the parties was: "We have sent for you, because you have to wait far too long. We'll be honest with you: we have a problem, because we have a closet full of old things that we can't finish." Oh, I thought that's nice. Then it was added: "But we still want to talk to you to see how we can solve the matter here." In the end, the court put so much pressure on the parties that a compromise was reached, which had nothing to do with justice but simply with threats and blackmail. At that time, I was convinced that justice had failed. I rarely went home with a more annoying feeling than after that hearing, because my client, who was in big trouble, could only accept a compromise that in my opinion was not reasonable. At a time like this, you can see how much justice has gotten into trouble and how much the judges are struggling with that problem. In the end, however, the victims are the citizens who have been counted on and are not given the right to do so. I hope the Minister realizes what he's doing. This is an example of structural under-financing and its impact on the rule of law, which the CDA talked about. I also hear the Christian Union saying that the critical lower limit has been reached. Yeah, it's been reached, too. And then you get a rule of law that's being violated. It's sad business. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that. Fortunately, we can do something about the cuts here and now. The Van Toorenburg amendment in the Lower House gave the right direction. In our opinion, a substantial additional amount should be made available directly, not next year or later, to the judiciary, the police and the public prosecutor. Across the street, the Minister rejected that request, in particular by saying that there would be no proper coverage. He added that, in line with budgetary policy, the use of the funds referred to by the opposition would force reorientations elsewhere in the national budget. And that cover elsewhere, according to the Minister, I quote "simplely not'. I do not want to argue that this defence by the Minister is simple, but more importantly, I believe that it is not valid. If, like us, the government agrees with the social need for more money for the areas of V and J mentioned, then we believe that the government is capable of doing so. It is therefore primarily not a question of money but of political insight and of political choices. Here again, need breaks laws. The need for more money for V and J for this year is unmistakable. It's up to the government to deal with that need now. I'd like to hear if the Minister is prepared to do so. If that is not the case, I am considering tabling a motion. I've got it with me. Finally, I would like to address the state-law aspect of the government's refusal to carry out motions in this Chamber. I note that the government does not seem to see fit to sidestep this Chamber's motions, at least not or not to carry out them in full. We now have a number of them. I would also ask the Minister to state what arguments and considerations have been decisive for the government and the minister in this case in the decision to disregard the motion of this Chamber of 22 December 2015, the English motion. If I see correctly, the Minister did not explicitly mention the English motion in the explanatory statement on the supplementary budget for V and J. Does the Minister share my view that this Chamber as co-legislator is entitled to have the Minister explain to the Chamber and explain why he is not carrying out the English motion? If not, why not? If so, is he prepared to give that explanation to this Chamber? As always, I look forward to the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u9	Mr. Chairman. It was not customary to have a budget debate in the First Chamber, but it is even more unusual to discuss supplementary budget states, in conjunction with the Spring Note. Yet there seems to be reason to do so today. During the debate in December last year, Chamberwide expressed concerns about the budget of V and J. These concerns concerned the national police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, justice and asylum care. A motion has been adopted by Chambers, as previous speakers have already mentioned. The Minister has promised this Chamber that he will make the most of his efforts if it becomes apparent in spring that additional money is needed for the V and J budgets. He literally said: 'If additional resources are needed, we will seek an appropriate solution from the Ministers of V and J and from the Finance Ministers'. A similar text was issued by the Minister in the Lower House. My group began the debate in December by expressing appreciation for the extra financial resources that the Minister had allocated to the V and J budget. The government had taken positive steps. At that time, my group also expressed concern about the national police, justice and the criminal justice chain. My group was somewhat reassured by the Minister's commitment to maximum combatibility. And then it's time. Then there is the Spring note with the supplementary budget states. Then it turns out that this maximum combatability has resulted in 49 million. 49 million earmarked for the national police to finance the increased influx of asylum. The VVD Group counts its blessings, let that be paramount. However, the VVD Group cannot ignore its concerns, concerns about addressing, as the minister who mentioned during the previous debate, challenges for the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary, the quality of the sitting and the standing magistrate as well as the national police. Let me start with justice. In recent years, justice has had to deal with a lot of austerity rounds. In previous debates, we have already noted that sometimes the case law seems to be stalling and crunching. Not literally to a standstill, because compromises and other procedural acts will eventually go on and judgments will eventually be passed, but it will all take so long. I cannot escape the impression that judges have substantially less time to look at the substance of the case. In the budget debate in December, my group already referred to the letter from the Hof's-Hertogenbosch, which informed the Dutch barristers that arguments that had been requested in autumn 2015 could not be met until 2017. I myself recently experienced in a comparison that a judge in an apple case had not at all studied the file. He didn't ask questions and didn't know what the dispute was about. My client wondered at the end of the hearing why he should have paid the €5,200 registry fees. I couldn't explain that to my client. Just like the time when the Registrar wrote only the names of the parties and the judge himself made the minutes, which did not contain half of what had been exchanged. Or the time my client received a letter from the court for the sixth time that the verdict had been postponed by six weeks. It seems that justice is doing the best it can to achieve the minimum. Although we have to ask ourselves whether that is the level of justice that we want in the Netherlands, there is also that minimum limit. My group realizes that now is not the time for the debate on the financing of justice. However, there is a new budget coming up. Will the Minister promise that he will make a fresh effort to provide sufficient resources for justice? I note that the budget of the Minister of V and J is responsible for the financing of justice. The question, however, is whether this fits in with the independent and independent role played by the judiciary in our rule of law, determined by power and separation, and whether this fits in with the principles of the Law on the Judicial Organisation and the Decision on financing case law based on it. In line with the independent and independent role played by justice in our rule of law, it would be separate from the available budgets of implementation. The case law is not an executive service, it is an independent state power. How does the Minister view the idea of turning the budget of justice into a non-departmental budget, so that the problems in the departmental budget of the Ministry of Justice cannot affect the budget of justice? I'd like a response from the Minister. I come to the subject of national police. The 49 million extra goes there to a large extent. My group therefore does not have much to complain about. However, she would like to know about ICT in the police. During last December's budget debate, the Minister indicated that €600 million will be invested in ICT per year. My group was rather shocked by that. That's insane and it doesn't seem necessary, given the state of the art. They are also not amounts that can be compared to the deficits in the case law. What is the status of ICT? Are all ICT systems now up to standard? Can efficiency gains already be made? Is the spaghetti of various programs and systems from the property of the 25 disbanded corps really past tense? During the budget debate on 15 December 2015, the Minister thought he needed an additional 60 million to 130 million for ICT investment for the police. The Minister then spoke of a pencil, pencil and brush approach. My group is always very wary of such magic formulas. I'd like an update from the Minister. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the D.A.'s office. A previously carried out risk analysis on the budget of V and J showed that the cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office are not feasible without risks to the primary process. Mr Bikker pointed that out. The pace of austerity was too high, so the conclusion was. At the Public Prosecutor's Office, there appears to be a deficit of 14 million euros. This has not been taken into account in the supplementary budget statements. A third external research report, which was produced after the two Galan reports, concluded that the additional funds from 2020 should be returned to 2016 and beyond. How does the Minister view this? Is he going to take this conclusion? How will he take this into account in the 2017 budget? I'll come to a conclusion. The generally accepted English motion and the commitments made by the Minister during the December 2015 budget debate are a reflection of today's debate. Although the VVD Group has its blessings, it remains concerned about the quality of justice, the national police and the public prosecutor. It assumes that the Minister shares these concerns and is convinced that the quality of justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the national police must no longer remain under pressure. My group strongly asks the Minister to take the concerns she expressed to the negotiating table for the 2017 budget, and also for the years thereafter, of course, to the extent that it is within his capacity to provide structural solutions. We look forward to his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u10	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u11	I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u12	Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I think it's okay if I take a moment to respond to the motion that was filed in the first term. The motion says that the debate is being heard. I would point out that the debate had not yet taken place when the motion was tabled. The motion calls for extra money to be invested in national police instead of spending it on the asylum shelter for which it is intended. Just because this is a shift in the budget of money already earmarked for asylum reception, I must advise against this motion. I come to the questions and comments of the other Members. May I begin by thanking the members of the Chamber for their involvement in the work done by the people who are active under my responsibility? I have heard many praises for this and I am grateful to the spokesmen for expressing their appreciation for the 100,000 people in this Chamber. It is the people who guarantee our security and strengthen our rule of law day in and day out. I am very grateful to the Chamber for expressing its appreciation for this. This appreciation translates into the involvement of the spokesmen in my department's budget, as well as into their concerns about it. I want to try to take away those concerns as well as I can. I would also like to express my gratitude for the flexibility that has been shown by the Chamber to be able to hold the debate today. I would like to point out, also in the direction of Mr Van Dijk, that I am not the only one who is very grateful to the Chamber for this, but so is someone in my immediate vicinity. At the end of 2015 we discussed the finances of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the justice system and the NFI. In doing so, the Chamber has expressly stated that the Cabinet should look at the risks of possible shortages in the spring note. It also stated this in Mr Engels' broadly supported motion from the D66 Group. With the additional funds allocated to both the budget and the supplementary budget, i.e. the Spring Note, my department has been strengthened for 2016 in order to carry out its tasks properly. Maybe it's okay if I just remind you what amount it's going to be. A total of EUR 1.3 billion has been added to the budget, at least if the Chamber agrees to the supplementary budget. This 1.3 billion consists of 248 million for national police, of which 43 million for collective agreements for 2016. That money goes to the people who have been on the zero line for years and who, thanks to the collective agreement, are getting back on their income. 49 million was a post-payment on the collective agreement for 2015. 10 million is earmarked for the implementation of the so-called contour note, i.e. the strengthening of detection, in particular for detectives. 49 million is a compensation for the commitment made by the national police in the context of the asylum influx. 11 million is earmarked for the development of C2000. There's 86 million left. That amount is available for the general costs of the national police. Out of the total amount, an investment has also been made in justice and legal aid. It was said that in the spring note there is no additional money for justice, but that is not the case. 14 million out of 1.3 billion is earmarked for justice. This is logical because, in the context of the asylum influx, there is also a need for an additional investment in justice. Appropriate resources will be made available for this purpose. The same applies to legal aid, which is reinforced by 14 million. A total of 861 million will be added to my budget for the general asylum declaration. There are also a number of smaller posts, including 125 million for wage and price adjustments. This means that with a combination of the supplementary budget and last year's budget, a total of EUR 1.3 billion will be added to the budget of Security and Justice. That does not mean that I am ignoring the signals given by the Chamber tonight, but which also reach me from the chain partners. I am constantly talking to them about this. In December, I stressed that I would be combative in the government's budget negotiations if there were any problems, despite the additional resources that were then 310 million and added to my 2016 budget by letter of amendment. In the meantime, a significant additional step has been taken: an additional 49 million for the national police and the two posts I mentioned for justice and legal aid. Of course, it is still possible to establish with each other that there are budgetary tensions and risks in the V and J budget. They have led to the addition of additional funds to the budget of V and J from 2016 onwards, but within the government's financial capacity. After all, a very large number of these investments are structural. So last November I was able to strengthen my budget in the first instance and again in the spring note. The Public Prosecutor's Office has also been given 15 million dollars to further invest in ICT so that work processes and quality and service levels can be brought to an even higher level. As we noted in the debate this afternoon, justice has been strengthened by an additional 25 million. This amount will enable budgetary bottlenecks to be overcome and further investment in the KEI programme, on which we have had a wide-ranging exchange of views. The origin of the amounts is as follows: 533 million came from the budget of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and 330 million comes from the general picture of the Minister for Finance. In times of budgetary tightness that we still know government wide, huge sums have thus been added to my budget twice. I therefore believe that this has taken very important steps towards putting my budget in order. I know that there is still a tension in the national police force of around 55 million, despite these additions. This is evident from the P&M investigation that was carried out at my request. I had an extensive exchange of views with the House of Representatives. I have indicated that the Chief Constable and I are looking together carefully at the possibilities of adjusting to that point in the next six months. Where this is not possible, we have established that the national police's own funds are sufficient to meet any shortfall. The Public Prosecutor's Office also has a number of bottlenecks. I'm in good conversation with the state's attorney's office about this, and we're following developments together. I am confident that these talks will lead to a solution to the problems identified by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr. Engels asked for this. If there is a solution, it will, of course, be taken up in the Navy's Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u13	The minister's had a lot of conversations with the state's attorney's office, but you don't catch bad guys with conversations. Can the Minister assure us that this year there will be no vacancy at the Public Prosecutor's Office, to name but a few?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u14	Cliff-and-ready commitment is always tricky. Firstly, the Public Prosecutor's Office is the same as the national police, namely that a work guarantee has been issued. So it's extremely complicated anyway. However, in the context of the reorganisation, a reduction in the number of people had already been agreed at the Public Prosecutor's Office. For example, there would be a transfer from public prosecutors to national police. Within that framework, the agreements are simply implemented. As far as I know, there is no provision that there will be grounds for dismissal in 2016, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u15	The Minister just made a comment in my direction which he linked to the autumn note. I think it is very important that we establish exactly what we agree on in this debate on the autumn note. I asked for additional measures to be taken in the autumn note, within the budgetary space available for 2016. Important steps have been taken, that's right, but we're not there yet. It's been established by Chamberwide. The Minister can try to maintain that sufficient steps have been taken and that there are no more deficits, but no one shares that view. The intention of the undertaking requested is that we should like to see in the autumn note that the most urgent financial problems are resolved in the public prosecutor's office, the police and the judiciary. That is the central point of the whole debate, and I would like to ask the Minister, without any reservations, to be absolutely clear about it. Otherwise, as I announced earlier, I would still have to table a motion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u16	I understand. I also welcome the fact that Mr Engels and I can exchange this with each other. I realize we're short with the national police of around 55 million. I have not been able to get that covered within the additional funds added to the national police budget. That's what I agreed with the Chief Constable that we're gonna look together at the direction on that amount. Although own funds can adequately provide for it, we try to ensure that the possible build-up of own funds at the end of the journey is as small as possible. For this you look at any windfalls, you see if you can send a number of expenditure items over the course of the six months, without, of course, endangering the primary process. That's an example of an action I'm doing together with the Chief Constable. The Public Prosecutor's Office has indicated that it is expected to have a problem of 14 million. In close consultation with the D.A., I'm trying to figure out how to solve that. I cannot promise that I will solve it, because that depends on the possibilities I have, but I have heard from Mr Engels that he made some very clever proposals. He mentioned a cash drawer and the use of windfalls. If that is possible, Mr Engels can count on me not to abandon such measures to resolve the bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u17	I understand that very well, but we have a bit of the debate we had in December and the question we are now facing in mind. That's a feeling of disappointment. As far as I have asked on behalf of my group to make a commitment on the Autumn note, we are a little less positive that it will all work out if the Minister is combative enough. He doesn't have to take that personally, I mean functionally. We want a little more hardness and guarantees. The Minister mentions an amount of 14 million. I also have a list of amounts. What I don't want is for us to talk about lists of amounts. It is clear that this year there are still real deficits in the case-law and the prosecution, but also in the police, which undermine the quality of the performance. A number of other spokesmen have said this much more clearly than I have. If I ask for the commitment to fix this in the Autumn note within the current resources, it cannot be that the outcome is the same as today: a barely serious additional investment in the three elements of the criminal justice chain. So it goes beyond an effort obligation. We need to be clear about what we want, otherwise it will be a repeat of it. Then the Minister will know that the 2017 budget will be back on the agenda in December. I would like to have very different debates with the Minister on the future of the rule of law than this one, but then we need to do a little more than we have done so far. That was the commitment and I want a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u18	I understand that, but I am trying to make it clear to Mr Engels that the commitment and intention are there. He says, however, that it must be done within the framework that exists and that the problem must be solved there. The second question is: what if the frameworks do not allow that? What if I don't have the space and possibilities? Then he can't blame me for not being able to do it, can he? I cannot commit to results in an ongoing financial year of which I have only six months. The problem I have outlined is relatively clear. National police have a steering challenge of around 55 million, which can be covered by equity. So nothing changes the capacity or the use of the national police. The Public Prosecutor's Office has an annual bottleneck of around 14 million in the current financial year 2016. I'm in the middle of a conversation. That's what the Chamber can expect me to do to solve that problem. This will be taken up in the Navy's Note. As far as the judiciary is concerned, the negotiations for 2017 are taking place, because that is no longer a problem at the moment. I have already addressed the bottlenecks in the 2016 budget with the additional 20 million and 25 million in structural terms, including for the KEI programme, and the investments that have already taken place in the judiciary, plus the 14 million additional for the asylum chain in 2016. All in all, an additional 1.3 billion will be added to my budget. We pretend that's nothing, but it's a lot of money. On a total budget of just over 11 billion, over 10% of my budget has been added this year, thanks to my commitment, partly on the basis of Mr Engels' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u19	The Minister stressed very much what investments had already been made. Meanwhile, over the last few hours, I have heard a large list of things that are not in order or operations that are very under pressure. This is also indicated by the top people of all three partners in the criminal justice chain. I call it the prosecutor, where cases remain, such as trafficking in human beings, but also the police, where, if there is more to be surrendered, recruitment may be stopped. There's been a lot of trouble everywhere. We had an extensive debate in December. I saw a warrior minister at the time. I thought, "That's gonna work." The Minister is now trying to show how combative he is, but how can I get the confidence that this problem will actually be dealt with in the autumn budget if the Minister already says that if the frameworks do not allow it, he cannot move in the right direction. There's one cabinet, isn't there? Surely the cabinet has the responsibility, together with all the rulers, for the proper administration of the classical public administration? If it is said so unanimously from this Chamber, 'Do it differently, stop just looking within the box to see what regular changes are possible', then I expect a slightly different attitude from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u20	I understand that very well. I also appreciate Mrs Bikker's statement in this way. However, I would like to draw attention to the sums already allocated to the organisations we are concerned about: 5 billion for the national police, with a steering problem of 50 million, and about 400 million for the public prosecutor, with possibly an ongoing financial year problem of 14 million. The justice system receives 1 billion dollars each year to do the important work that needs to be done. I'm trying to see if there's anything I can add to that in the years to come. That's what we're having good conversations about. For the KEI programme it has already been done, I have already indicated today. In this respect, I have made improvements in all areas, with the support of this Chamber and the support of the other side, which have greatly improved my budget for this year. I'm already working on how to do that in 2017. I am also looking at the long term, but for 2016 the problem with the total amounts is not great, although there is a problem. It is my intention to achieve this together with the chain partners. If that is possible, this will be done within the framework of the Navy's note, as suggested by Mr Engels. However, we must be realistic. I'm gonna have to get lucky. I need the possibility of a cash drawer that I can cover in years to come. It's as simple as that. I don't have to explain that to the Chamber either, because she knows how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u21	This leads to a paradoxical situation. On the one hand, this Chamber indicates where the problems lie. On the other hand, the Minister states that he already invests so much and that this is ten-tenth work. If the Minister now knows that he is supported by this Chamber when it comes to tackling the last problems, why does he not tackle them with both hands? Why is he moving it back to another budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u22	I'll take the support of the Chamber with both hands. I did that last year. I am doing that again, but the financial frameworks are the financial frameworks. Let me look back at the debate I had on the other side. During that debate, an amendment was tabled with cover that simply did not exist. They also asked why I did not accept the Chamber's hand-off. There was no handout. There was a tendency to add a certain amount of money from a non-existent pot, but as a minister responsible for the proper financing of my department, I cannot do so much with that. I'll take all the handouts. I also regard it as a huge support for the important work that those who depend on it do with each other. I see a limited problem for 2016, although there is one. I'm very realistic about that, too. The Chamber cannot blame me for not being realistic. I have been extremely realistic about the problem in the budget. I still am. I have worked very hard with the cabinet to find a solution to many problems. This has led to substantial investment in all areas of my department, in total for more than one billion, assuming that this Chamber accepts my budget. That is also a condition, otherwise there will be no money. It's as simple as that. That's what makes it exciting. I am talking about providing an appropriate solution to the current problem, as suggested by Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u23	The Minister embraces the suggestion of fellow English. That is a gain, but at the same time he says that the Chamber should not charge him for what is ultimately the result, because he is only going to do his stinking best. What kind of embrace is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u24	That is the same embrace that has added 1.3 billion to my budget since I joined. I tried my stinking best to do that. With the same embrace, I have ensured that the national police, apart from a sum of around 55 million, are fully financed on the basis of the investigation that I had myself done, because I thought that was important. I wanted to know what the problem was. I also ordered an investigation into the D.A.'s office. The MPs all know what the outcome was. It was that, on the basis of the current funding, the Public Prosecutor is able to carry out the tasks that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u25	The Minister has now said three times: look how well I've done with the 1.3 billion. But if you listen carefully to his explanatory statement, we could already read that in the explanatory statement, then 10% goes to the parts already mentioned by this Chamber in December. We then indicated where it should go as far as we are concerned. Only 90% go to other cases, to asylum shelter and to new tasks. However, we want the operational services of the police, the judiciary and the judiciary to be able to do their work better and faster. In this context, last year this Chamber indicated that hundreds of millions should be added. I'm signaling two movements tonight. The first concerns Mr Engels' motion, which I believe is on the way. I feel like that motion is getting closer and closer. It is about tens, in concrete terms tens of millions that should still be repaired in the 2016 budget. In my opinion, Mrs Bikker announced a motion which appeals very much to me. It is about my only question to the Minister, namely whether he has a multiannual vision of the restoration of the rule of law. I hope that the answer to that question will come, but there are hundreds of millions of people involved. The Minister also knows the report in question. We are talking about the last five million for the national police which still needs to be repaired in the light of a deficit of 49 million compared to that of 54 million. On the basis of the same report, on which a double check was carried out by André de Jong, we know that the Minister knows that there will be a deficit of 200 for the national police for next year and 270 million in 2018. So there really needs to be something that better paid agents can actually do their job better and the prosecution wants to be able to take things off faster. I would also like to draw your attention to the examples given by Mr Ruers on the judiciary. It shouldn't happen again that you have to wait so long for your case to come to fruition. So two moves, small money for 2016, but big money for the coming years. We would very much like to hear that the Minister is going for that. I've seen Secretary of State and Secretary of State before. They said, "I don't have to come to Salmon with that. That's not an attitude of a trade union minister. You go for it, because if it's a good plan, then eventually there's always money, because otherwise it wasn't a good plan. I hope that's how the minister works with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u26	I'd be happy to. I very much appreciate Mr Rombouts' statement in this way. That's my bet. I'm going for it. I'm gonna try to make sure of that. I realize there's a problem with the national police and the state's attorney's office. I'm gonna take care of it. The next occasion will be the Navy Note. I very much appreciate that Mr Engels also points out that he understands that this must be within the framework that exists, but I will make use of the maximum flexibility. Then there is Mr Rombouts' question about the future. The distribution of any additional funds for 2017 and further years will be presented on Prinsjesdag, at the same time as the Millions Note. That's also the logical moment. It goes without saying that I will take with me the concerns of the Chamber, including those of the House of Representatives, because I have also had an extensive exchange of views with that Chamber on the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u27	I hear the Minister making a fine speech. At some point, however, he says: 'within the frameworks that exist'. I think that's the problem. I've reported that before. If the minister remains within the framework he sets himself and if they are too limited, the problem will not be solved. The Minister will have to have the political courage but also the vision to go outside, go to the cabinet and say: I need it and you have to deliver it to me! That's the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u28	That is exactly what I have done, including in the 2016 budget. The amount of money we are talking about here also comes from other departments and therefore from outside the frameworks. So that's exactly what I'm doing. That will also be my commitment for 2017 and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u29	The point is that the other side has discussed this in detail. They've come up to 183 million. That is the amount that is reasonably necessary. If Mr Engels is talking about a few dozen, that is already a huge reduction in the amount. The amount of 183 million was well substantiated. The Minister himself knows that. He just said there's no cover for it. That is where the political problem lies. Coverage will have to indicate the Minister. He has to make sure that the problem is solved. He shouldn't be calling out how much billion has already been spent. That's not the point. This is the problem for these three services that need it very much. The Minister must then be politically creative and commit himself to this. If it isn't, there's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u30	I am trying to make it clear to Mr Ruers that it is precisely my commitment to make myself strong in this respect. Moreover, I did not recognise the problem of 183 million. That's not what I'm telling you here either, and that's not what research shows. I have had these investigations done precisely to find out where the problem is; I have had validation done in order not to have a discussion on this issue. So my commitment is to resolve the problems that remain in the course of 2016 in an appropriate way. The next opportunity to do so is the Millions Note. That will have to be done within the framework, however, but I will do my utmost to do so. I have five blocks in which I would like to answer the questions of the individual Members. I will start with the block in general and then follow the blocks of OM and justice, the national police, asylum and a number of other questions from the side of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u31	How long do you think you'll need for this, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u32	I will try to do so as briefly as possible. Mr Engels and Mrs Duthler have drawn attention to the problem of national police, but of course we have already discussed this. I can say in the direction of Mrs Duthler, but also in the direction of Mr Engels and Mr Rombouts, that the structural elimination of deficits in the future is, of course, also part of my negotiations for 2017 and beyond. Mrs Strik, Mrs Duthler and, to a certain extent, Mr Rombouts asked if I could lift a little bit of the veil from the 2017 budget. I can't do that, as you'll understand. Let me just say this about it. If the amount mentioned in the media were to be added to my budget, on top of what I have already received, I will undoubtedly be able to find very good destinations for that. Then I'll get to the block of D.A.'s office and justice. I'll see what questions I have left. Ms. Strik indicated that there is still a remaining problem of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the current financial year. That's right. She asked why a solution had not been found six months ago. That's because the problem wasn't there at the time. It is really a problem that has arisen in the current financial year, but which needs my attention. I'm in good consultation with the D.A.'s office on that. There's a good chance that there's gonna be windfalls in the D.A.'s office and maybe even some setbacks. This is the case in an ongoing financial year. I'm in conversation with the D.A.'s office to take care of good solutions. They'll get their hands on the Navy Note. Mrs Bikker asked if I could provide an overview of the D.A.'s targets. That overview is there. I sent that to the House of Representatives. I've got it right here in my folder. If Mrs. Bikker can't find it, I'd be happy to give it to her through the messenger. I don't know if that's allowed, but at least it's publicly available. That overview was sent to the House of Representatives on the day of the debate on this budget. It consists of two parts: the cuts, i.e. the targets which lie in the Public Prosecutor's Office and which are in line with the targets of all the other public services, and the intensifications that have taken place in recent years. These intensifications, if I do, amount to EUR 36 million. An example of this is the elaboration of the obligations under the Hoekstra Commission. For example, there are a few other posts. The overview is therefore available. If Members like that, I would be happy to send those figures to this Chamber too, but I may not be able to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u33	Thank you. At the same time, the Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned about the deficits that remain, particularly in view of the challenge that lies ahead. I would like to hear from the Minister that he wants to come to a structural solution precisely on this point for the years to come. After all, my question, and not the exact figure work, was taken into account, however much I appreciate the fact that the Minister is going to send me all the mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u34	Then I will not do so and then I will be full with Mrs Bikker to refer to the letter to the House of Representatives. This, of course, is exactly the starting point. I am in good conversation, not only about 2016 but of course also about the following years, because where there are challenges, there must also be adequate funding. This has always been done by my predecessor in office over the past few years. If there's a problem that the D.A. says we're in agreement that this has to be solved and the D.A. doesn't have the capacity to do it unless there's extra funding, that's what happens. This has also been done in the last budget for 15 million ICTs. For the public prosecutor, too, needs to take the big step in the coming years towards better ICT support for the people who need to do the job. Mrs Duthler also referred to André de Jong's investigation in the Public Prosecutor's Office. The special thing is that the Public Prosecutor himself had the report drawn up, Galan II in popular terms, which showed that there would be shortages. We have had that validated and that validation has shown that there are no such deficits and that the Public Prosecutor is able to meet the current task, including within the financial frameworks set out. The condition was, however, that there should be a cash drawer capable of absorbing any savings losses. I embrace that conclusion, too. The cash slide is not yet part of the Spring note, but it will be incorporated into the budgetary framework. Mrs Strik and Mrs Bikker then referred to the debate we had on the lack of competence in the case-law. I am very enthusiastic about the way in which this has been taken up, not only by the judiciary itself, but also by other parties, especially the seven municipalities involved. I had a good talk with everyone: the presidents, the mayors and the Minister for Housing and National Service. It seems that the National Real Estate Company, the judiciary and the local authorities are jointly able to solve this problem adequately. Substantial progress is already being made in some locations. However, for most locations this is not possible at the moment, for the simple reason that the empty position is only created in the longer term. But even then, there are agreements to ensure that there will be no such vacancy. That is the starting point for the Council of Justice, but also for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u35	A good conversation is half the job. But, as I understand it, the risks remain with the courts. Is it true that, at the time when the agreements do not lead to rental and cost-losses, the risk to justice is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u36	Sure. This is also the result of the legal agreements we have made with each other. The Court of Justice is responsible for its own management. This is part of it. That's why I said I don't really have a say in it. I shouldn't really interfere with that, because if I did, I would intervene in the responsibility of the judiciary itself. However, I am prepared to do so, and that is also a commitment to the House of Representatives to play a role in this. I have also played this role by bringing parties together and making good agreements with which everyone is also very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u37	I mention this because I read in the explanatory memorandum to the Spring Paper that it is not necessary to provide the Council with additional resources for justice, because we have these accommodation arrangements. I do hear a bit of a soft appointment in that: for some locations it may be possible, for others it will take a little longer. It has not been said that the amount that the Council will need for justice is offset by short-term housing income.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u38	But there is also no short-term problem. The empty position is projected empty position, which is expected to increase as a result of KEI legislation. But that process does not take place in 2016: it only starts in 2017 and later, and sometimes in 2019/2020. But the agreements that are now in place on the way in which cooperation is being carried out give me the confidence that the problem will be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u39	Can I ask you one more question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u40	Yes, Mrs. Strik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u41	You say it gives you confidence that it will be resolved anyway. If you write at the same time that there is no need for money, because you have found this solution, will you promise that, should that solution not lead to real compensation, you will still want to make up for it financially?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u42	That can't be done otherwise, because if the judiciary suffers damage due to emptiness, damage is of course not real damage, but if that were so, then it would necessarily translate into a claim on equity. At the end of the day, I'm responsible for own funds. No matter how you turn it or turn it, it always comes back to me. By the way, that is an experience I have on several files. A word more to Mrs Strik: I am currently in negotiations with the Council of Justice for the years 2017-2019. My aim is to get out of there with him in a good way. This is, of course, in the interests of justice, but also in the interests of the rule of law. In the previous debate, Mr Ruers pointed out that the case law was in a heavy state of affairs; there would be unrest among the judges. This has to do with the administration of justice, as Mr Ruers pointed out in the previous debate. I think it's clear there's been some unrest among judges. That's why I take their concerns very seriously. That is why I have allocated additional funds for 2016 and subsequent years. I do not support Mr Ruers' view that the case law would have failed. I don't recognize that image. I think that there is very hard and high quality work there. In doing so, I have also answered questions put by Mrs Duthler on additional resources for justice. Mr Ruers and Mrs Duthler asked for the idea to be removed from the budget of V and J. That is an idea that has also been discussed in the debate in the House of Representatives. I responded in writing, following publications in the NJB and Ars Aequi. The Minister of Finance has also answered questions about this in the framework of the Compatibility Act. At that time, I said that there should be a wide-ranging consideration. After the summer recess, I promised the House a letter on this subject. I'll be happy to send that letter to this Chamber as well. However, I have made the point that it is very much a question of whether an organisation such as the judiciary would benefit from not being under the responsibility of a single Minister of State. I am responsible for the rule of law and justice. My commitment is to be fully accountable in debates such as this. If, on the other hand, you become a kind of High College of State, with its own budget, then who is still committed to the budget? That is a point on which, once the letter has been received, we must exchange views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u43	I find it interesting that the Minister says something about his responsibility. A month and a half ago there was a debate in De Rode Hat on the state of the rule of law, which highlighted that aspect. The President of the Court of Justice said that you should not do so on your own. By the way, the Supreme Court and the Council of State have done so. Then Mr Corstens, former President of the Supreme Court, remarked: we did indeed do so neatly and we are very satisfied with it. The Supreme Court has no problems with the board. The High Council negotiates with the Minister on the budget, which is very convenient. Then they stay outside the annual cheese-shaving methods or worse, if there's money to be found somewhere in the Justice Department. Wouldn't that be a solution to the whole justice system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u44	Justice certainly does, but then the same problem arises in the Ministry under which they are then covered, namely BZK, although it is a series of higher colleges of State which do not necessarily fall under the responsibility of the relevant trade minister. But this is a debate that is good to have. I thought the General Court also said something about it. We will send a letter to the Chamber about this. Mrs. Duthler asked about the police's ICT. The size of the ICT budget for 2016 is at the level advised in the P&M study. That's one-on-one the same thing. As stated in the report, the budget also determines how much ICT change the organisation can absorb. So it remains necessary to make choices. In line with the review, priority will be given to projects that will put the foundations in order. One thing is certain: the legacy of the 26 old corps has not yet been completely cleaned up. Further efficiency is possible and necessary. The space created by this is very much needed to be able to innovate further. On the subject of asylum, Mrs Strik asked what my position is on the proposal to start integration already during the asylum procedure. That is the responsibility of Mr Asscher. I am, of course, prepared to share with the Chamber the broad lines of government policy on this issue. Successful participation is the starting point, as is language learning. This will start as soon as possible after authorisation. Then the integration process starts. Volunteering is seen as an important part. Training and professional backgrounds are taken into account when linking status holders to municipalities. Authorisation is speeded up where possible and the waiting period is reduced. The cabinet thus strives for rapid integration. Mrs Strik asked why the OS money is being used for asylum expenditure and why the asylum reserve is being filled with money from the ODA funds. It has been agreed that donor countries within OECD-DAC and within their own national borders will receive asylum seekers from developing countries. The costs incurred during the first 12 months of the stay may count as ODA expenditure. The ODA calculation is based on influx of asylum seekers. In order to finance the reception in the second year, part of the ODA allocation is taken through the asylum reserve to the following year. Ms. Strik asked about the deadline within which the IND decides. The IND invests heavily, which can also be done with the extra money that has been obtained. This is done by increasing production. Luckily, the waiting period for the first application fell to four to five months, which was seven months. If the current relatively low inflow continues, which is not yet guaranteed, the objective is that stocks and waiting periods will be at a normal level in September. This therefore means that the procedure may be initiated within one month of its entry at the latest. Mrs Strik asked about the ratification of the three protocols. That is an important issue, particularly in the context of the budget, I say with a smile. I say that more often, but we are seriously looking at the implications of ratification. This is taking a long time. In any event, I intend to inform it quickly about the protocol on civil and economic rights, which has already been signed, on the timetable envisaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u45	I had the impression that we had already gone a step further in the course of the budgetary procedure last time. Then you indicated that you would ensure that the bill would be submitted to the House of Representatives this year. Hence my question as to whether there is a request for advice. Now you tell me that in time you will inform this Chamber about the timetable. That sounds a bit like taking a few steps back in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u46	It's the same, because I know what I promised. But I also think that Mrs Strik should know what the plan is. I'm picking it up right now. She may know that I have 360 legislative proposals under discussion, with a relatively small department. We need to take a good look when we can fit that in. That's what we're gonna do. I'll inform the Chamber about that. My aim is to send that to the Chamber this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u47	When are we gonna get that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u48	I can't do that anymore before the recess, so it'll be in or after the recess. Mrs Bikker asked a question about the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. She asked whether it would be wise, in this situation, to put that modernisation on the goat cart. Firstly, modernisation of the Code is highly necessary in order to improve the quality and performance of the criminal justice chain. Processes need to be streamlined and the work of organisations in the chain should be lightened. One example of this is the simplification of preparatory research. For example, the new Code can contribute to reducing administrative burdens and shorter lead times. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary are therefore strongly urged to continue this project as soon as possible. We've been working on it since 1998. In 2004, we agreed on the way in which we were going to fill it out. We then laid the foundations. I welcome that and I am trying to complete this project with great enthusiasm as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u49	I understand that this is necessary, because it is an old code of conduct and there is a need to identify what could be better, but the organisation that works with it, the police, has already been given a lot of choice. How is the Minister going to ensure that it is going to land well in its implementation? How is he going to make sure that the people who have to work with it actually have something to do instead of us doing all the things we think are right here in The Hague? After all, these things are going to work on the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u50	I congratulate Mrs Bikker on this point, because that is indeed a very important point. Let me give you a very simple example. Each lawyer knows the terminology of a suspect within the meaning of Article 27 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is very possible that changing the article number alone will have a huge impact on the police organisation, not only with regard to forms but also, for example, with regard to training and recognition. Because we are aware of this, we say that this legislative process must be designed as quickly and as carefully as possible. I therefore very much appreciate the fact that this Chamber has also said that it is considering the appointment of a special Registrar for this purpose. Of course, it would be very helpful if both Chambers did. I believe that the House of Representatives has already decided to do so, but I do not know what is going on here. In any case, we have said that we have to do the implementation very carefully with impact assessments and a period of about five years, because then it is carefully done and you can also map the implications for the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u51	The formation of the national police has now been postponed or smeared. What impact does that have? Can the Minister come back to that at a later date? You can do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u52	I do not need to return to that in writing, because I know that very precisely. The reorganisation is spread out in that sense that we do less at the same time, but that we do the important things first. The staff reorganisation is almost complete. The collective agreement's fine. Setting up the basis is an absolute priority over the next two years. The redistributing of the capacity of police officers to units will take place at the moment when everyone has their placement decision. That is, of course, very important. That's what local authority is asking for. So that's our priority. After the Codes have passed both Chambers, it will take another five years to implement this carefully. I therefore believe that the end of this process will not be achieved for seven years. Finally, let me make my position very clear once again. From the day I started as Minister of Security and Justice, I operated along three lines to put my budget in order. The first line is to identify the challenges. I've had that investigated. In the cases where research had already been carried out, I had it validated and then the figures on the table. The second line is to ensure that this problem is adequately resolved, on a multiannual basis and on a structural basis. I have not fully achieved this in all areas, not yet. My commitment is to solve this for 2016. As far as the problem is concerned, I shall, if necessary, do so with the Navy's note. Where this can be done within the financial framework, as Mr Engels rightly pointed out, I shall do so with great enthusiasm and determination. My commitment to the years 2017 and subsequent years is to ensure structural coverage of the challenges ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u53	We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u54	Mr. Chairman. That was suddenly a quick end to this reply. I thank the Minister for his reply. In the first term, I said that the CDA Group was struggling with the question of whether it would vote for or against this proposal and this budget change, but that was obviously not true. After all, you can only vote in favour of the proposal, because you would withhold money from the police and others if you did not do so in a majority here. However, we were not happy with the content of this budget change either. We are even a little disappointed about these three elements, those three pillars of our rule of law and of our criminal justice chain. I therefore chose in the first term to give the Minister the opportunity to put his multiannual vision on the table. It has already become clear in the interrupting debate that we do not agree on this. Nor has the Minister been able to convince me that he has a vision of how things should be over the next five years. I sincerely suggest that he use the coming months to leave a legacy for the next cabinet period and to start it himself in the first tranche for 2017. I think that's what this room wants. As Mr Engels said, there are still some very sharp bottlenecks to be resolved in the short term. This is not about large sums; we do not have them in mind. In addition, the analysis to which Mr Bikker and I referred in our contribution must be carried out. Let us now look at how, over a period of five years, you can ensure that the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary are put in order, so that they can really do what we can ask them to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u55	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. I appreciate that. I will be honest with you at this stage of the second debate we are having on the budget: it has been a bit like I had hoped, but it had been feared. The Minister and the Chamber are not entirely in line today either, so much is clear. To my taste, the Minister is too reluctant. Let me make one more positive comment. The Minister stresses that very important steps have been taken. Billions have passed. This tribute is due to him; I do not want to take it away from him. That is not the end of the story, however, because the Minister then acknowledged that there were deficits in the current financial year. However, he does not consider them to be risks, because those deficits could seem to be covered by the public prosecutor's own funds and the caselaw. However, that is not an attractive perspective for my group. Nor do I have the impression that we take the chain seriously. After all, this is an essential legal function at an important time in society, in which society also benefits from the proper functioning of the legal system and this is not the right signal. It is not for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary itself, nor for the police. When you impose obligations to cover deficits from own funds, the identified risks actually remain in the budget. That is exactly what we do not want in this Chamber. Once again, the Minister is keen to show that he is very willing to commit himself to an effort. I certainly appreciate that. There are a lot of things that we can exchange in the appreciate atmosphere, but I must say quite frankly that after the debate we had in December, the Minister has wasted his opportunity to leave with the promise that he can make a maximum effort. Then we said, 'Okay, you're fighting, you're going to do that and we're relying on it', but the outcome has been extremely disappointing. That is why the Chamber will probably not say again now: we are giving you an opportunity to try and settle something in the Navy's note with an effort. The risk is, of course, that we will get the same story when we deal with the Autumn Note as we do now when we deal with the Spring Note. Then the turnips are ready, because that means that we are already pre-sorted for a new examination of the 2017 budget. Actually, I'd like to avoid that. We cannot talk about the justice budget in this way year after year. These are essential functions of the state. After one year, it has to be clear. Then it's over and done. Then we must have arranged it and we must deliver quality. We are therefore very much in favour of a result. I deliberately did not want to mention amounts that I do not do now even though they have passed. I don't want to fix the minister on that amount. It is important for the possible adjustment of the 2017 budget that the amount 0 will not be returned in the autumn note, in order to make it very simple. We're getting signals. The Minister also gets it, but apparently interprets it differently. A number of spokesmen have made very detailed analyses here about where the bottlenecks are with the prosecutor, the police and the judiciary. We have those signals, too. I think it's impossible to insist that we can just ignore it because we can solve it in a good conversation. Those days are over. Since I think that the Minister has been too reluctant and I am now speaking on a second term, I am again tabling a motion to allow the Minister to give this genuine support. This time, when he talks in the Cabinet and in the Council of Ministers, I am sure he can make it clear to the Minister of Finance and to the Minister of Finance that it will be the very wrong answer when a story comes back in the vein of 'I have had it with that complaint from the legal profession'. With this motion in hand, the Minister can say: we as a cabinet cannot do this; we will have to go to the First Chamber with a different story than the story about complaints and so on. The President shall: Members English, Strike, Diederik van Dijk, Bikker, Ruers, Backer, Rombouts and Van Bijsterveld propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[without prejudice to the opinion that the 2016 budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice should minimise the risks of potential shortages and inadequate performance in case-law, OM and police;]] [[calls on the Government, with the said chain partners, to identify the most necessary measures to address the most necessary financial problems by the end of the year and then to respond to them by means of financial instruments such as under-exhaustment, cash-slide or redeployment of funds, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34485-VI-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u56	That concludes me, Mr President, as you will understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u57	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. For my part, too, there is a cry for help: the rule of law depends on the skill that the judicial chain can provide. We must nurture them and facilitate them sufficiently. It is as if we are talking about the current problems, but today's problems are also the result of the fact that the reserves and costs of this chain have been reduced for years. This is actually the result we are dealing with. At some point there is no reserve, no buffer and then it's gone. Then the citizens will also notice that it is sanding. Then the chain can no longer deliver the best performance. That must be at the heart of this minister, but I can see a somewhat ambiguous attitude on his part. On the one hand, he recognizes the problems. He did so during the last budget debate, and he is doing so a little bit now. On the other hand, he also whips it away and says: it is only small amounts compared to the whole amount; moreover, we end up filling the deficits ourselves, so what are we talking about? That is an attitude and a way of filling a budget that creates a lot of uncertainty in the field and prevents the chain from investing sustainably. Sustainable investment cannot be made. Having to go all the way through one's own reserves because there is no other option, is of course also detrimental to sound business management. The Minister seems to want to deny that the English motion has not been implemented. After all, I heard him say that EUR 1.3 billion was added. It is very nice that this is so, but it is by far largely intended for other purposes rather than for the problems we identified in the budget last year and on which the motion for a resolution was based. I also heard the Minister say that extra investment has been made in justice. Yeah, it was last year. Last year, 20 million was invested, especially for KEI. However, we read in the Spring Paper that there will be no extra money available for this year. I understand from the Minister's body language that this is not the case. I'd like to hear it from him if it's any different, because I've read the Spring Note differently. The chain is the backbone of our rule of law, and that is really not exaggerated. I think the Minister can agree with us on that. So this should not be a game of negotiation either. My group therefore wholeheartedly supports Mr Engels' motion. If a motion from Mrs Bikker also comes along in relation to the sustainability of finances, my group will support it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u58	You have predictive powers, Mrs. Strik. We're curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u59	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u60	Mrs. Strik, there's another interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u61	No, Mr President, this is not for Mrs Strik. I wouldn't dare. I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u62	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u63	At the beginning of my contribution in the first period, I think that has made a difference to mention that I have spoken on behalf of the OSF Group until the last moment. It's got to be in the Acts for a while. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u64	It is good that you are creating this clarity, Mr Engels. It makes a world of difference. I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u65	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has said a lot and highlighted a lot of what has already been done, but my group is still left behind with the feeling that this is a paradoxical debate. There is a unanimous opinion of this Chamber that it is squatting with police, prosecutor's office and justice and that the Spring note and the supplementary budget do not meet. There is also a unanimous request to go constructively towards the Autumn note. This Chamber also made suggestions to this effect through Mr Engels. However, the Minister responded by specifying what has already been done. That leaves the problems. Next, he does not want to promise that he will take this entirely into account in the Navy's note, only that he will make every effort. If the Chamber asks for more, it makes the problem that would exist and which the Chamber thinks exists small again and points to the many millions, if not billions, that are in the various parts of the budget. It's only tens of millions. It's a wonderful situation, isn't it? Yes, the Minister has a problem. No, he is looking for a solution himself, but with the exact recipe that hasn't worked in the past year. To be honest, therefore, my group is not convinced that, on the basis of these promises of effort alone, we are now waiting, with confidence, for the Navy note to be sent to the Minister. That is why we support Mr Engels' motion. And then the long term, because I've talked about 2016. The Minister has told us a lot about his longer-term intentions. At the same time, we will also have to wait for the budget. We note that there are several reports, in fact for all parts of the criminal justice chain, which identify risks and identify where the difficulties arise and to what extent they are structural. In my group's view, however, there is no coherent analysis of this cabinet and the policy proposals that should result from it in order to bring this budget to a healthier level so that we do not react per report and to the greatest incidents. We must ensure a sustainable, calm financial policy. That is precisely why I am tabling a motion, also on behalf of my colleagues from D66, GroenLinks, SGP, SP and CDA. I think even the Finance Minister should appreciate it because the proposal in the motion brings a solid budget. Well, a finance minister just needs to get all caught up in solid budgets. It is heartfelt support from this Minister to ensure that the budget of the Ministry of Justice is given a solid basis for the coming years. The President shall: Mr Bikker, Mr Strik, Mr Engels, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Ruers and Mr Rombouts proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the supplementary budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice 2016 removes some financial risks;]] [[Whereas the General Court of Auditors and several reports have made it clear that there are financial risks for the police, the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office which are not fully eliminated by the supplementary budget for 2016 and which also entail a structural task;]] [[Whereas the police, the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office continue to state that additional resources are necessary to keep operational strength in order;]] [[Whereas, furthermore, the various research reports on funding, management and the necessary investments for police, justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office identify the bottlenecks, but there is no coherent analysis and resulting policy analysis for the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a coherent analysis of the challenges faced by the different partners in the criminal justice chain and ultimately the Ministry of Security and Justice in the coming years and the policy intentions associated with them in order to achieve a sound multi-annual financial picture in the 2017 budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34485-VI-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u66	You will understand that I very much look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u67	Mr. Chairman. Ah, said the mouse, the world gets narrower every day. At first, she was so wide, it scared me. I walked on and was happy that I finally saw left and right in the distance walls, but those long walls are getting closer so fast that I am already in the last room. There in the corner is the trap, where I walk. You just have to change the direction, said the cat, and she ate the mouse. So much for one of my favorite authors, Kafka. I feel a bit like that mouse in this debate on justice, if I am being very honest, because whether you like it or not, you are inevitably being pushed in a direction where you can only say 'yes' or 'for', when you actually want to say 'against' in substance. 'Cause I'm not happy. There's got to be money. We need to take signals from the justice system, from the state's attorney's office, from the police and from the NFI more seriously than is happening now. However, if I change my direction and head towards "against," I will encounter the cat. Or: then there is no extra money for the safety chain at all. I don't want that on my conscience either. Here is the dilemma facing a simple fraction such as that of the SGP. We in the group will consider our voting behaviour. I close, after I've wished departing college Swagerman from this place a very successful period at Qatar Airways.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u68	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive and eloquence of his reply. As always, it was a lot of words. I tried to get out of those words something that would make me happy. It didn't work, because it just wasn't. I note that it is not today or yesterday that we are dealing with financial problems in the security chain and in V and J, in the three areas of police, prosecutor and judiciary. I think that is the result of the initial attitude of these government parties in the beginning. By Rutte I and all the way through Rutte II, a huge austerity mission has been imposed on the Ministry. He's leaving his mark now. In fact, the problems are getting bigger and bigger and this is no longer being compensated. I believe that this is the cause of all these problems, because we are constantly trying to find money to maintain the rule of law. That money is no longer available; at least not enough. What the Minister has said about what is going on is very nice, but it is important that the problems that exist are not solved. It just needs money, a lot of money. The Minister doesn't do that. It can be said that we must have the confidence that the Minister will make it again in the autumn, but I would point out that we had this debate in the House of Representatives at the end of last year. Three motions were adopted at the time of the budget debate. They were detained under the Minister's promise that he would do something with it in the Spring Paper and that it would be all right. That was the first promise that wasn't made. Then came the promise following the English motion in this Chamber; that was also a promise. Once again, we gave the Minister the green light, because he made a promise that he would do it. Again, that wasn't true. A few weeks ago, the same story came up in the Lower House. My partymate Michiel van Nispen said that he felt betrayed by the minister, because there were promises but nothing comes. Even tonight, the Minister says a lot, but nothing substantial comes out of it. The problems in society in the area of the security chain, in the justice system, the prosecution and the police, are huge. I know that the people in those areas will be watching tonight with their eye on whether something will come out tonight that will give them any hope, but there is just no such thing. Nothing's gonna happen again. We must receive another promise from the Minister. The saying "promise much and give little" is well known. I'm not crazy. I just think that's enough. I do not think the Minister has done what he should have done. He shouldn't come back with a promise now. I will therefore give my group serious consideration to voting against the proposal to amend the budgetary states next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u69	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his first-term answers. This Chamber has made a statement that cannot be ignored, including the VVD fraction. Yeah, big extra cash went to V and J. I have also indicated this in the first term, but my group also has an ambivalent feeling. To be honest, my group is not yet satisfied that the Minister is going to solve those concerns about justice, the prosecution and the national police in a structural manner and that a sound financial basis is being laid. That feeling is due, for example, to an answer from the Minister to one of my questions on justice. The Minister indicated: "I have answered Mrs Duthler's question with this.' However, I was not talking about the unrest in the judiciary but about the unrest in the courts. Mr Scheltema spoke very well in his first term in the KEI debate about the responsive rule of law, in which citizens see that the rule of law is there for them. I would like to hear from the Minister that he shares, sees and takes this seriously. So my group still has that ambivalent feeling. The multi-annual vision which Mr Rombouts mentioned and which has also been proposed by Mr Bikker sounds very sympathetic with a view to starting with the creation of a solid basis for the future. I still have to discuss this within my group, but I can imagine that this is a first step towards solid justice, a solid police force, a solid OM and a solid rule of law. After I have said this and after we have talked about so many fundamental issues, I still have a question about a detail, which I am very curious about. This concerns ICT in the police department. I would like to know what the 600 million is spent on. Is that just software? Or is that also about system development, maintenance, personnel and equipment? I would also like to get a better feeling about that. Does the Minister wish to provide my group, the Chamber, with a further specification of what we are actually talking about? I would very much like to await the Minister's second-term replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u70	I ask the Minister if he has the opportunity to answer directly. That is not the case. We'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u71	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin answering a single question and assessing the motions, I should like to congratulate Mr Swagerman on his new position. It is of course sad that he will leave the First Chamber, but he will undoubtedly play an important role in the further expansion of democracy in the country where he is going to work. Let me add that I met Mr Swagerman in my previous capacity, and I was then a member of the House of Representatives and he of the First Chamber, and that we already had a very good cooperation at that time. In the past year I have always been able to count on him. I would like to thank him very much for that, partly on behalf of the cabinet. From the contributions made in the second term of the Chamber, it has become clear to me that the spokesmen are more than encouraging me to support me, but above all that they want to send a clear signal as to how they feel that not only in the coming year but also in the future, the budget of Security and Justice should be dealt with. This is, of course, consistent with the previous debates we have had on this subject, but it is also in line with my commitment. Of course, we can find out what we think about it, and I would also like the Chamber to do so, and in any case the relations are so much so, but at the same time there can be no doubt that the only thing I have in mind from the moment I started this post is that the financing of the important activities under my responsibility is not only sound for the current year or the coming year, but also for the years after that. That's the bet. That's what I stand for. I've done that in the past few months. I myself believe that I have been shown to have an enormous amount of additional opportunities within my budget. However, I am also realistic and do not imagine things more beautiful than they are. Maybe the Chamber will recognize that, too. There is still something to do in 2016. I consider the motion tabled by Mr Engels et al. As an important support to move forward with this. I'll explain that in a moment. I come to one more question. Mrs Strik said that there was no extra money for justice. That's what happened. I explained that in the first term. A total of 861 million in intensification funds for the asylum chain have been provided to my department. On top of that, a further 14 million has been made available for justice, related to asylum, as well as 14 million for legal aid, also related to asylum. Those two amounts are therefore in excess of the amounts already in the budget before the case-law and for legal aid. In any case, an additional investment in justice and legal aid has been made in the spring note and in the supplementary budget respectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u72	That is true, but in my second term I referred precisely to the promise made last year to come to the Spring paper with substantial means to address the bottlenecks. This did not concern the higher asylum influx, for which additional resources had to be found. So it is true, but it does not solve the problem that we talked about last December and which we talked about again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u73	Mrs Strik will allow me to put it to her the other way around: if I had not taken care of it, there would have been a 14 million problem. So it's the same thing. We have noted in the Spring Paper that there is a problem with the role of justice in the asylum chain. I've solved that problem. That bottleneck has been solved. If I hadn't managed that, I'd have an extra $14 million bottleneck for justice. Now, because of the investments in the autumn, in the budget, and because of this reservation, I have no bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u74	That's right. It is not surprising that extra tasks allocated to the judiciary are allocated an additional budget, but that does not solve at all the structural problems that we discussed here last December and today. Of course, the problem would have been bigger, but the problem we found last December has not been reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u75	I say of this: I resolved the problems that I saw in December with the 2016 budget and with a structural contribution for the years to come, especially for KEI, on which we had a debate this afternoon. Furthermore, I am looking for the structural solutions in the Millions Note and the 2017 budget. Mr Rombouts has challenged me to use the coming months to leave a legacy. That's the challenge I'd like to face. I'm already working hard on a certain legacy, but I'd like another. I will take that challenge with joy. I hope that will lead to the desired result. I'm just checking to see if I need to answer any specific questions. Mrs Bikker also explicitly expressed this support. I say to Mr Van Dijk that I have been looking for an equally acute reaction to his quote from Kafka. I have to admit, the ten minutes I had were just too short. I'll put the weary head in the lap. I can't get over that. So I congratulate him on his contribution. I have also thanked him for mentioning the names of two randomly chosen Dutchmen in the first term. They have been added to the Acts. I'm gilded with that, I might add. Mr Ruers and I do not entirely agree on the analysis of each of us on what is needed for justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. Apart from the fact that I do not disguise the fact that there are challenges, Mr Ruers has a different view of the situation than I do. My commitment, as I have already said, is to ensure, for a long time, that we solve the problems that exist effectively. That is what I should be expected to do. I am fully committed to this. I confirm to Mrs Duthler that, of course, I fully share the concerns, if any, of those seeking justice. It also asked for a further justification of the ICT portfolio. I'd like to refer her to pages 52 to 62 of PwC's P&M investigation report. I would like to point out that part of the total amount of nearly 600 million relates to the costs for staff, connections and automation, housing, training and training, operational activities and the management of the ICT portfolio. In addition, Mrs Duthler will also be able to agree with the budget of the national police, which of course is well known to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u76	Is that report public, because then I can take note of it myself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u77	Of course. Sure. It was part of the documents you received for the 2016 budget review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u78	The report from PwC, PricewaterhouseCoopers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u79	Yes. It's the so-called P&M investigation that I've had mapped out the challenges of the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u80	I'll take a look at my colleagues, but I didn't find it. Is it a lot of trouble for the Minister to send it after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u81	No, that's not a problem; I do it with joy. Then I'll get to the motions. I have already responded to Mrs Popken's motion from the PVV Group. I didn't recommend that motion. Given the debate, there has been no reason for the petitioner to withdraw the motion, so I assume that the motion is still there. In the English motion c.s. in letter C, Mr Engels asks for an inventory of the most necessary measures to address the most necessary financial problems by 2016. He then suggested that the Navy's note should take account of this by means of a number of points of attention, such as under-exhaustment, cash-slide or redeployment of resources. I have to say that redeployment of resources is always at the expense of someone who up to that moment was counting on him to have them. This is very difficult in the Autumn paper, because most of the funds will have already been spent. However, if there is under-exhaustment, the redeployment can take place. I want to be realistic about it. I consider the motion to be a support to continue the talks with the chain partners, which are the Public Prosecutor's Office, the national police and the justice system. Furthermore, within the existing possibilities, I will look at what I can do with the Autumn Note, including the use of reserves available, such as own funds. If Mr Engels agrees with me that I consider the motion to be an explanation and support, I leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u82	Unfortunately, I do not entirely agree with the Minister. It is once again a support in the back, so was the previous motion. I have indicated that this motion, in view of the support I once again suspect in a large part of the Chamber, can expect more from the Minister than, with support in the back of the Senate, he is going to do his best towards the chain partners. That's good. We asked if he was involved in these talks, and we are not going to sit among them. The motion is mainly intended, more than as a back-up, to achieve a different result in the cabinet than the result he took from the discussion of the Spring Note, in particular after consultation with the Minister of Finance. I am not fixing amounts, but the number of amounts has been identified here in one direction. The result "zero" will lead to new problems, I want to be clear about that. The Minister has now received support twice. The first time we got zero on the record and we will not appreciate this a second time. We expect something in return this time. I don't mean to overdo it, but I assume the Minister understands what I'm saying. If he says that this is a different interpretation from the first motion, we can come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u83	We need to be clear about this. I can't make any promises about financial resources that I don't have, it's as simple as that. I would like to conduct the talks in all possible ways, including within the cabinet. However, I cannot say that I will therefore guarantee that I will not come back with zero. I do not think Mr Engels is asking for this either, because in the beginning he said very clearly: within the possibilities of the year 2016, with the note that you can work with cash slides and that kind of thing. Of course, you must also have proper consultation with the Minister of Finance. I take good note of the opinion of Mr Engels, who says that I have a problem with him if I have a zero return without a good story. I get that on the one hand. On the other hand, my commitment cannot be any different than it is: to have talks, to be realistic in the perspectives and to apply the redeployment of resources, the cash-slide, the under-exhaustment and viewing of own reserves and own funds in order to solve the problem as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u84	This sounds a little better. I think it will be the intention and intention of the Chamber, in particular towards the Minister of Finance, to make it clear to the Cabinet that it will have a problem if it sends the Minister back to the First Chamber in the autumn with the undesirable scenario 'zero on demand'. That's the point. It is also a question of the Minister making it clear to his colleagues that this happened to him once and that this cannot happen again, because then the whole cabinet has a problem; so I say it very sharply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u85	I would like to thank Mr Engels for the clarification. I take good note of this and continue to bet on 2017 and next years. Even if it were the case that in 2016, for all the reasons that can arise, there is no possibility of moving forward in the end, there is the question of how it will be possible in the coming years. That's what you need to see in perspective. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I'll continue with the motion-bikker c.s. by letter D. For the sake of purity, I have to say that the first recital in this motion is correct and that the second recital is largely correct, albeit on the basis of my analysis of the case law and the Public Prosecutor's Office, that the concerns for 2016 are, in principle, removed on the basis of the investigation, but that they may still be there as a result of setbacks. I have promised Mr Engels to look into it thoroughly with the D.A.'s office. The same is true, in a sense, of the caselaw. Mrs Bikker knows that there is a problem with the police. For the 55 million we basically have a solution and I will include it in the talks, as I am expected to do. The third recital refers to research reports. I do not agree with the observation in that recital that there would be no coherent analysis and no policy analysis for the coming year. This is exactly what I have done over the past year: have all the studies carried out to identify the challenges, so that they are validated and not stuck on one report. It's been looked at thoroughly, just because we think it's important to know what you're talking about. I am certainly prepared to take this motion with me when it comes to drawing up the analyses underlying the budget. This means that over the next few months I will have the opportunity to shape the texts of the underlying budgetary underpinnings from 2017, with this motion in mind, so that they meet the demands made by Mrs Bikker. Strictly speaking, the budget is no different from an analysis of the needs of the different partners, including the challenges and policies associated with them, leading to a sound multi-annual financial policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u86	The minister started out so nicely, but at the end of his embrace he handed in the budget. I must be glad that the motion has been filled in. That's not the question. I appreciate the multitude of reports that the Minister has had produced; this has made it clear what the structural need for the different parts of the criminal justice chain is. However, this motion calls for the reports and the parts not to be dealt with separately, but rather to look at the whole, then to prepare an analysis and then to ensure multiannual policies, so that we go to a sound budget. This is not just the 2017 paper, but a broader digging story, so that the minister or his successor in the next cabinet formation is just a bit wider in the jacket.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u87	I think we mean the same thing. I do not see the motion as a motion which will lead to concrete financial commitments. In that case, it should be covered and it is not. I don't think Mrs Bikker means that either. I understand what Mrs Bikker means and can give substance to it in the budget. I must, however, revise the texts of the budget in order to emphasise even more the coherence that Mrs Bikker considers desirable. The criminal justice chain as such is, of course, considered in its entirety. Perhaps Mrs Bikker knows that a separate director has recently been appointed to my department who has only the task of monitoring that integrity. It's about a former district attorney who's been loaned out to us. The entire criminal justice chain is being analysed and examined in full. I will also allow that to happen, bearing in mind this motion, in the analyses underlying the budget for 2017 and subsequent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u88	It's nice that the Minister thinks he understood me correctly. I hope so, too. I now assume that, if this motion is implemented, it will really be done with the stories of the Minister of Finance that there is whining in the criminal justice chain. After all, there is now a clear story about the problems that exist and how the Ministry intends to fly them. Did we understand each other that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u89	Of course, I am not talking about the words of fellow ministers, but one thing is for sure: I think we have understood each other well and that we can bring back the reflection of this motion in the further analysis and underpinning of the choices made in the years 2017 and beyond. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my term, with warm thanks to you and your Chamber for having been able to talk so extensively about this budget today. I would say to Mr Ruers that I can think of 1.3 billion reasons why he should try to convince his group to vote in favour of the supplementary budget. There are 58 000 asylum seekers who depend on the decisions taken by this Chamber with regard to my budget for their care and support, their integration and their participation. Therefore, should Mr Ruers agree with those 1.3 billion reasons, I would be very grateful if the SP Group would also vote in favour of the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u90	Thank you. I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose to vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motions.
