ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Nine years of uncertainty for mail delivery workers working on piecework. For nine years, the postal market has been the toy of liberal politics. And this minister has been responsible for that postal market for four years now. For two years he has known that on 1 January 2017 80% of mail delivery workers must have a contract of employment, but now, during the very last Question Time of 2016, it is still unclear whether that will actually happen. If that's not gonna happen, then what is? I ask the Minister what percentage of the people currently working at Sandd now have a contract of employment. The Minister has promised that he will send the Chamber for Christmas an investigation into the postal market, with the cabinet vision. Then why don't I have that investigation? It's Tuesday. Thursday we go with recess. Hello! We need a solution that works. Aren't we gonna keep it? So what's this minister's plan? My greatest fear is that I share that concern with the trade union "" is that what has happened time and time again will happen, namely that it will be postponed. If the Minister does not have a plan, I cannot accept that as of 1 January 2017, the law, which has been amended with an amendment by Mr Gasthuizen/Vos to the effect that 80% of postal service workers should have a contract of employment, will not be enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. For companies employing postal service providers, 80% of them must have a contract of employment. PostNL meets that requirement. The company Sandd doesn't fit in. I think about half of Sandd's mail delivery guys have a contract of employment and the other half don't. I spoke to Sandd's leadership about this intimately. I also discussed this issue with the regulator ACM. Background to the whole is that there is a continuous contraction of the postal market, in the order of close to 10% per year. This puts pressure on companies' turnover and results, and thus on employment. I am developing a policy vision for the postal market. I have promised the Chamber that I will come up with that policy vision at the end of the first quarter of 2017 or at the beginning of the second quarter of 2017. So, as I announced, I come at the end of the first quarter of 2017 and not before Christmas with that policy vision. My colleague from SZW and I are discussing the short-term course. We are, of course, relying on the law. The law says 80%. Of course, we are also looking at the interests of the workers concerned. I am convinced that if the law is enforced, the ACM will do so carefully and will take account of the facts, circumstances and interests, especially the interests of the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	Sandd is therefore not enough; at least we can see that, because we are talking about 50%. It seems to me very strong that Sandd in the remaining two weeks until we're all going to eat oil orbs, will achieve an ingrowth of another 30%. I think the Minister agrees with me. So the company's not gonna make it. Then what's gonna happen? Will the Minister then enforce the law on 1 January? The minister says that of course the company is also dealing with a shrinking postal market, but we have looked closely at SEO's investigation, haven't we? This has been explicitly analysed and shows that Sandd has achieved significant revenue growth in recent years. This is at the expense of PostNL, among others, but Sandd has achieved a turnover growth. I have listened very carefully to the response of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs to the questions put by my fellow Members. She said this cabinet is fighting against debt and poverty. I keep hearing the Minister for Social Affairs, Louis Asscher, the foreman of the Labour Party, say: we are fighting against false self-employment. We have been discussing this case for nine years. Come on! We've known for years that this moment was coming. There is no solution now, I have not yet seen it, so I can say that we can very well postpone a few months. There is no such solution. There is still no long-term strategy. This minister must therefore simply enforce the law by 1 January 2017. There's no other way. No one is above the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mrs Gesthuizen talks about "years" and "nine years." Apparently, she's thinking about the period she's in the Chamber herself. We had in the law that 80% of postal servicemen had to have a contract of employment, but the possibility existed that was also provided for in the law to derogate from it by collective agreement. There's been a fairly recent change to the law. On the basis of an amendment, the possibility of a derogation under collective agreement has been abolished. As of 1 January, the law applies and 80% of postal service providers must have a contract of employment. If that is not the case, and no further decisions are taken before 1 January, then the law must be enforced. I am convinced that the ACM will do so carefully. I think that the ACM should also look at the company that we are talking about, the company Sandd. 18,000 people work there, 15,500 of them mail delivery workers. It is a shrinking market with a decrease of 10% per year. Sandd too is having a hard time, as I have already exchanged with the Chamber before. That means I'm gonna perform very carefully to the company myself. The ACM should do the same. The basic principle remains the law as it has been established and as it must be enforced and observed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	I also feel sorry for the employees, whether they deliver the mail with a contract of employment or a contract of engagement for Sandd almost every day, but appointment is a deal. The problem lies not with Sandd, but with politics. We all see that the market has been liberalised, but it cannot be broken down now. The public authorities must take steps, for example by reviewing the liberalisation of the postal market. We cannot allow two companies to compete with each other in this way. Something will have to be done, for example minimum rates. I know this minister doesn't want to get involved, but politics will have to take that kind of step. If we do not do that, the Minister knows very well that he can say that he feels sorry for Sandd or that the postal market is shrinking, but that one thing is clear: this cabinet simply leaves the workers in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	When I say that I think that the interests of Sandd's employees 18,000 workers, of whom 15,500 mail delivery workers should be dealt with carefully, I do not do so because I feel sorry for those people, as Mrs Gesthuizen says. Those people put their souls and salvation into their work. Their work is important to them. The company where they work is important to them. The interests of the company and those people must be taken into account, but in the context of the law as it stands. It must be respected, but it must also be maintained in a sensible way. That's what the meeting's about. If there is no other decision before 1 January, the law will be enforced. I am convinced that the ACM will do so in a careful, responsible way, including to the employees. I think it is interesting to talk about minimum prices and the future of the postal market, but it seems very sensible to do so when I come up with my policy vision, which I announced before the end of the first quarter or the beginning of the second quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Gesthuizen. I give the floor to Mrs Mei Li Vos to intervene on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	The Minister probably knows that in the past year we have talked a lot about bogus constructions, also because of the DBA Act, with his colleague Wiebes. In that sense, I fully agree with Mrs Gesthuizen's question. We have a law and we also want to set the standard: if something is normal work and not work for entrepreneurs, then you get a contract of employment. In this sense, the substance of the law is exactly what we want it to be. The FNV has conducted its own investigation. They've been investigating if Sandd can afford it. Turns out Sandd can afford this. I am curious to know what the Minister's conclusion is in his considerations, also in view of the standard we sometimes set and the fact that Sandd is probably not going to fall over when normal contracts of employment are paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	Perhaps Mrs Vos, as spokesman for one of the coalition-striking parties, could also agree with the answer, in addition to agreeing with the question. The answer I have given is that the law is the starting point. If nothing happens before January 1st, the law must be enforced. I am convinced that the ACM will do so carefully, taking into account the importance of the company and the interests of the employees, but also on the basis of the law as laid down by the legislator.
