ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. We have two speakers from the Chamber. I see the first one's already pressing. That is Mr Bosman of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have had a strong debate with the Minister on the plans for action. The VVD specifically requested this debate. There is still a plenary debate, but we have held general consultations to discuss these plans of action as soon as possible. We are concerned because the Minister has indicated that the plans of action can be terminated, while there is cause for concern. After all, we must note that there are still problems with the police and the prison system in Saint Martin, and we do not feel the warmth that we will get solutions to this. I'm not a man of great words, but I'm going to use one: "naïve." I think the Minister is a bit naive if he thinks we have an appointment with Saint Martin before 10 July 2016 to come up with good plans. After 10 July 2016, the deadline is to extend and then we are stuck with the lifting. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, when the countries of Saint Martin and Curaçao were created, the conclusion was that these countries were not yet ready for all the tasks of the new country and therefore "plans of action" have been drawn up in certain policy areas;]] [[Whereas the possibility of extending these plans of approach has been introduced by a Chamber ruling and has rightly been used;]] [[whereas almost all plans for action have been successful, but this does not apply to the plans for action relating to the police and the prison system in Saint Martin;]] [[Considering that the intention is to end the plans of approach by 10 October 2016, while there are still shortcomings in the organisation of the police and the prison system in Saint Martin;]] [[Whereas the termination of the plans of approach does not address the concerns expressed in both the Second and the First Chambers during the examination of the draft legislation on the dismantling of the Netherlands Antilles;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to improve the functioning of the police and the Sint-Maarten prison system, including binding commitments and clear objectives, and to present these proposals to both chambers by mid-May 2016 at the latest, so that the States General has an opportunity to express its views on this matter in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bosman, Mr Taverne, Mr Remco Dijkstra and Mr Vuijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u3	I will not use my speaking time, but I would like to ask you something. If it is naive to assume that there would be good plans in mid-June, how realistic is it to assume that those plans will be better in mid-May?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u4	We have agreements that fit in with a plan of action. The plans of action are laid down. The Second and First Chambers have fought to ensure that the advance is laid down in plans of approach. When the 10th of July is over, I repeat: when 10th of July 2016 is over, and we don't have any plans of approach or clear agreements with St.Maarten, they won't get there. That's my big concern. I think we'll have a real problem getting to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr Bosman asks for plans by mid-May. They must be written here, in consultation with Saint Martin. It'll never work on that term. By definition, that can never be a better plan than what is already there. In the debate, we have already found that the plans that are now under way are dead. They're a dead horse and we shouldn't pull that. So we need to find a new horse. I really wonder what this motion will achieve in terms of better plans. In a few months' time, there's never gonna be a good plan, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u6	But then it is very clear for the VVD: then we have to keep the plans of approach, so that St.Maarten can come up with article 24 in the coming period, during the two-year extension. In doing so, we make the adjustment within the plans of approach. So we can improve all these plans. But things have stayed down lately. I would also like to refer to the committee on progress which monitors this. We have to note that things have remained in place and we should not live the idea that if plans remain in place and nothing happens, you will get away with it. Clear agreements have been made to ensure that the plans of approach and improvements will be made on St.Maarten. There was a fight in the Second and First Chambers, also by the PvdA. But they're not here. That's why the VVD thinks we shouldn't throw away the old shoes before we get new ones. So keep the plans of action. Anything can be arranged in there. If we go the other way, we'll have absolutely nothing. Then we will see absolutely no progress and improvement in the police and prison system of Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, partly referring to what has been discussed in general consultation, I would advise against this motion. Let me add that on a recent visit to Sint-Maarten two weeks ago, I had another detailed discussion by the Progress Committee, Mr Schoof and Mr Marijnen, on the state of play regarding the plans for action for Curaçao and Saint-Maarten. Their conclusion was that, although Curaçao eventually achieved its objectives after two times two years of extension. They were complimentary about that. Sint-Maarten is likely to have achieved his goals in five of the seven areas before the end of this period, in October of this year, but not in two main areas: police and prison. They also said that this medicine has reached the end of its lifespan and its effectiveness. Their advice was to put an end to it. At my request, they also put that in black and white. I have shared that advice with the House of Representatives and I agree with their conclusion. The operative part of the motion calls on the Dutch Government to make proposals for improving the functioning of the police of Saint Martin. I don't think this is wise. I have added that we have agreed a protocol initialled on each page by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice of Saint Martin. It is also initialled by the Dutch government, by the colleague of V and J and myself. We have agreed that there will be a commitment in the area of the Detective Cooperation Team, in the area of law enforcement. During my visit recently, I also agreed with the government of St.Maarten that we will soon see to it, before the summer, in a first round and shortly after the summer in a second, administrative round, that this Dutch commitment will be as effective as possible with the deployment of the police of St.Maarten, for which the country of St.Maarten is, of course, responsible, in order to achieve as much effectiveness as possible. This seems to me to be a better approach than the continuation of these two-pronged plans of approach. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u8	This is too fast. I actually hear the minister say: we're just gonna let go of the police and don't do anything with it, because we're gonna have the RST in a minute and we're gonna put a lot of money into it, and in that symbiosis it might get better someday. So there will be no improvement plan for the police or the prison system. This is not at all in accordance with the agreement of 10-10-2012, in which the Second and First Chambers said that there should be an improvement plan. We all conclude that it has not been achieved, but the Minister says that he is not coming up with an improvement plan. Nothing is being improved about the police and the prison system. My motion states that the Minister must ensure that these improvement plans are there, in such a way that there is a link between the plans of approach and those new plans. The Minister may know how the plans are going to be, whether they are new plans or plans that fit in with the plans of approach, but there needs to be an improvement. That was a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u9	Six years ago, the Chamber indeed decided that the police and the prison system would be the responsibility of each of the countries after the entry into the new state relations, but that there was reason to think that it was not possible at that time. For this reason, a common plan of action, partly financed by the Netherlands, should be drawn up in this area and in other areas for two years. Those objectives have indeed not been met. This is also reflected in the fact that the plans for action have been extended twice. I believe that the previous extension was already critical, including from the VVD Group, of the fact that this extension was necessary at all. I understand that criticism very well. I agree with Mr Bosman that it is very disappointing that the objective that the Second and First Chamber apparently envisaged in 2010 or prior to that was not achieved, namely that in one or two years it would have been possible to achieve those plans. I share the disappointment, but we must also be practical. The Committee on Progress, which we have appointed to keep an eye on this, advises us that this path is no longer fruitful. As the Chamber knows, the Dutch contribution to the financing of the plans of approach already stopped last year. It is now really up to the government of Saint Martin to take full responsibility for its own police and its own prison system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u10	Now it's not right anymore. We all note, including the Progress Committee, that the police and the prison system are not satisfactory. This minister now says: "Yes, we accept that; never mind; we do not do anything about that anymore; now it is St.Maarten's move." So there's not gonna be a plan. There will be no improvement, which is why I am tabling my motion. I find it inconceivable that the Minister should detach my motion, when we find that the police and the prison system are not satisfactory and this minister says: we will not do that. I find it unimaginable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u11	I recently deployed EUR 22 million to improve law enforcement in Saint Martin. I said that this will not just be contributed to the police of Sint-Maarten, but that the Netherlands absolutely insists that there is a separate direction. We have even considered an indication on that point. In the light of that intention, the government of St.Maarten has come to agree on how that will be used. In doing so, it is crucial that the current national government does not fully control the RST. I do not recognize that the government would have said that we do not care or that it does not matter. We attach great importance to proper law enforcement in St Maarten and we also use staff, financial and political resources. Once again, I think it is ironic to stick to those plans of approach, to which the Netherlands is no longer contributing, and only say "you will do this, point," according to the people on the ground who have deepened in them, is no longer a fruitful approach. You shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-9.u12	So much for this VAO. Thank you to the Minister for his presence. We shall vote on this motion tomorrow. As it looks now, it'll be around the clock at 8:00.
