ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mr Van Raak, Mrs Fokke, Mrs Voortman and Mrs Koşer Kaya, to the First Chamber. Mrs Thieme is not here. I also welcome the advisers of the initiators Mr Van Vollenhoven and Mrs Van Berg behind the government table, and the other advisers of the initiators at the civil service tribunal. I have already welcomed the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would remind the Chamber that on 20 May 2014 the plenary discussion of the bill House for whistleblowers (33258) was held at the request of the initiators after the first term of the Chamber for further consideration. On 11 December 2014, the initiators submitted a novelle to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. During the plenary debate last year on the House for Whistleblowers proposal, on behalf of the CDA Group, I congratulated the initiators on the proposal that had already reached the Upper House. It is not just a matter of proposing a general regulation on a complex subject such as whistleblowers, which must be justified by the interests of individuals, organisations and society and which, when setting up a new institution, must also find the right positioning between all the other institutions already in existence, taking into account the particularities of the private and public sectors. At that time, my group expressly supported the objective of the proposal. In fact, my group was and is of the opinion that it is desirable at this time to have an adequate regime for whistleblowers, given the great interests involved for society as a whole. At the same time, there was fundamental criticism of the original proposal. Today I can repeat the positive words on objective, usefulness and necessity. I would add that my group also appreciates the profound and careful remake that the initiators of the proposal have undergone. The explicit clarification of the additional and subsidiary role of the House vis-à-vis existing supervisors such as inspections and the Public Prosecutor is significant profit. Although the House has an explicit secondary role in the field of research, my group is convinced that the House will at least have added value there too. The profit that the present proposal brings is also explicitly the clarification of the possibilities of the House in relation to the public and private sector respectively and the explicit separation between the advisory function and the research function of the House. These praises are without prejudice to the fact that my group still has a few questions. In doing so, my group wishes to make a constructive contribution to the debate on the establishment of a House for whistleblowers. Some of these questions have a rather fundamental nature. We hope that the initiators will take the trouble to answer these questions carefully. We also ask the same questions to the government. In addition, my group has a single question to the government separately. The first and most important series of questions concerns the structure of the House, the functioning of the board and the positioning of the individual board members and the chairman, i.e. the governance structure. At the request of the First Chamber, the initiators made a strong separation between advisory and research tasks. As I said, we appreciate that, too. However, the way this happened raises a number of other questions. I would like to bring it forward now. The divorce is working on the board. Advisory board members deal with advisory matters at the level of the case and not with research cases, and vice versa. Only at a general level can the board discuss both advice and research. As far as the President is concerned, we read in various places in the note on the report that the chairman, together with the members of the board, can discuss case-level advice in advisory matters. Does this mean that the President actually has a hidden advisory function and can therefore never deal with a case at a business level? Or can he, just not in a case he's been aware of at the case level in the advisory phase? Elsewhere, it is also suggested that the President should, above all, stay out of individual cases, whatever their nature. Can the initiators now clarify the position of the President? My group finds that chairman somewhat uncomfortable. When he is not concerned, able to engage or engage in individual matters, he can officially form the face of the House outside, but still float a bit. In other words, how authoritative can a chairman be when he cannot and cannot engage in individual matters or individual matters? It seems to my group that it is not good for his authority to remain completely outside the core tasks of the House. I would also like to hear the government's view on this. When the chairman deals only with case-level advisory matters, his position is also a little strange, or at least somewhat unbalanced. My group also has a few questions about the further construction of the board. What role and responsibility do the members of one section have when it comes to the other? To what extent can they, even in a general sense, make an assessment with authority of the operation of that other department when they are completely outside of it? Who else is responsible for carrying out a particular investigation? Is that just the Member investigation that led the investigation, or the whole House, or the House with the exception of the Members' Opinion and the President? What is the role of a member's opinion or a member's research in relation to an individual consultation or research process? Are they only formally responsible or also substantively responsible? And are they advisory or research leaders, or do they only follow this remotely? Or are they the ones who formally adopt the opinion or investigation and therefore only approve the final result? And what is the role of the President in this? Does he only have a trial responsibility? What does all this mean when an investigation in a high-profile case is criticised? Does the whole board bear responsibility or only the board member who has dealt with it in substance? And again, what position does the chairman have? If he has not been allowed to take notice of the substance of the matter, can he then make the face outwards in public? The members of the CDA Group need clarification on these points, because it is a fundamental structural issue, a question of primary governance. Do the initiators think that this structure should be more clearly enshrined in the law itself? The initiators have repeatedly stressed that the separation of advice and research is also carried out in the official organisation. Is there a physical separation, so a separation within the building? My group considers this important in order to ensure the separation of content. And if external expertise is added to the House in cases where this is necessary, does the so-called flexible shell which the initiators are talking about only concern the level of administration or also the level of administration of the House? On page 7 there is talk of an AMvB with a front, but for the suggested solution of working with specialist committees in which additional board members can function, doesn't it need a legal basis? The second set of questions raised by my group concerns information, secrecy and the cooperation protocols provided for. I also ask these questions to the government. On page 5 of the note following the report, it is reported that the employee/aspirant whistleblower must agree to the use of information from the department's opinion by the investigation department. What is the position of the employee/aspirant whistleblower who does not agree? Can the initiators confirm that the cooperation protocols can only go within the limits of the law and cannot set aside the law itself? In particular, this concerns the meaning of Article 162 criminal proceedings. Should an employee/aspiring whistleblower fail to make an internal notification after the advisory phase or, at a later stage, the House does not request an investigation, are those who, by virtue of their duties at the House, have taken note of the facts of the case, obliged to report a suspicion of a criminal offence to the D.A.? Will the whistleblower be informed of this at an early stage if he wishes to consult with the department? Does this obligation also apply to the whistleblower himself when he is employed by the government? If so, what does that mean for his position when he decides not to proceed after an advisory process? Finally, what does it mean for the House's administration when it knows that? Can the initiators confirm that the prosecution can request information at any time, even against the wishes of the whistleblower? Does this also apply to the underlying information of the advisory or investigatory report that is not included in the report itself? On page 24 of the note on the basis of the report, the initiators write that they assume that, under Article 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Public Prosecutor will not request information during the advisory phase. On what basis do they base this expectation? Does this have any bearing on the content and scope of the article? In other words, does this lend itself or does it not lend itself to making mutual agreements? A few times there has been talk of converging investigation by the House and supervisors, inspections and so on. Does my group see it right that, in terms of research, the House should only take place when another body is competent and in such a case can only examine dimensions of that matter at the same time which are not the competence of those other bodies, such as treatment? Can the initiators confirm that it can only be a matter of taking care of the House's competence and not of taking care of it as such? The preliminary report raised the question of how an organisation with fewer than 50 staff should check whether a careful internal route has been followed before a journey at the House is followed. Can the initiators go into that answer again? My group supports the government's view that legislative change is necessary in terms of removing the mandatory notification to the employer by a decision not to carry out an investigation, an obligation that has more or less accidentally been included in the legislative proposal. Do the initiators agree? If so, who should take the lead in this change? Apart from that, I would like to mention the possibility of abuse of the dismissal protection scheme. Can the initiators explain again the exact conditions to be met and the conditions under which they will expire?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u3	May I point out that you must keep an eye on time, Mrs Van Bijsterveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u4	I'll be sure to. I also come to the end of the cascade to ask questions I have asked. I hope that the initiators will not be discouraged by it, but rather that they will see an incentive to make their position clear again. It is clear that the so-called OIO is the one who knows what I mean by that in the House. Does that also apply to the Advice Point Whistleblowers and the BIOS? The latter is another body; the initiators must know exactly what I am talking about. The BIOS has an independent mission that falls outside the premises of the House, although it has an interface with it. Isn't that what's left of it? I come to my last question, a specific question to the government. She commented on the legislative proposal that €400,000 is available to the House on an annual basis. Can the Minister explain whether the House can, in his opinion, function adequately in view of the forecasts of requests for advice and investigation? How does the Minister see the situation if this amount is not sufficient? Is it an additional amount or has it already been taken into account that the OIO and/or the Advice Point Whistleblowers enter the House? My group looks forward with great interest to the answers to all these questions from the initiators and from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Before I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar, I would like to welcome Mrs Thieme to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I agree with all the words of appreciation for the initiators. I thank them for the great work they have done. Mr Van Raak has been doing this for ten years. I would also like to thank them for the amendment of the original legislative proposal that we have dealt with here. The VVD Group welcomes the main objectives of this initiative, namely a legal regime for whistleblowers, the prevention of abuses and the promotion of safety. In general terms, a law that seeks to bring these goals closer, has our sympathy, but the way in which this proposal does so also meets criticism from my group. In particular, our criticism focuses on four points. Firstly, it focuses on the possibility that the House for whistleblowers itself will investigate a wrongdoing, secondly, on the secrecy of information on the investigation of this wrongdoing, thirdly, on the virtually total absence of legal remedies in relation to this investigation and fourthly on some minor defects in the legal text and in the explanatory documents. In this order I would like to explain the four points. I will begin with the investigation of the House's own misdemeanour. For advice, please contact the Consulting Point Whistleblowers, even now. This excellent facility has been in operation for over three years. Expert and dedicated staff show the whistleblower the right way. They act as advisers to whom the whistleblower can fully rely. The bill is in line with this growing practice. My group wholeheartedly agrees with that. Protection is necessary because the whistleblower is at risk of being harmed by the organization. To this end, the initiative shall establish the examination and anonymity. If the whistleblower believes he is being harmed, he may request an investigation. This should clarify whether or not the organisation continues to behave correctly after the notification. If not, the House can give a judgment or a recommendation. My group wonders: why not take a step further? Why does the House not provide for legal assistance when there is a demonstrable disadvantage of the whistleblower? That would make the treatment investigation much more effective. Anonymity is of great importance to the whistleblower. The bill rightly states that only he and no one else will decide whether his name will be known. Yet anonymity is not guaranteed. After all, these must be serious abuses in which a social interest is at stake. Most of the time, it's big business. In such large cases, it cannot be ruled out that investigations can be traced back to the name of the company and the whistleblower. My group has doubts about the investigation of the House's own wrongdoings. Of course, there must be an investigation into a miscarriage. This is not only in the interests of the whistleblower, but above all in the interests of society, safety, organisation and employer. We are, however, concerned about who is carrying out that investigation. In our opinion, this investigation should be entrusted to existing inspections, supervisors and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is the way it is now regulated in the novelle, at least in the first instance. The opinion section refers to one of the existing supervisors or inspections. So far, so good. However, the legislative proposal then states that the House will investigate the matter when an existing supervisor or inspection does not properly deal with the suspicion of a failure. We do not agree with that. If an inspection fails, this inspection should be corrected. Then you shouldn't create a new institution that takes over the work. That leads to stacking of surveillance. After all, the inspection must assess the situation and intervene or not. The House then assesses the work of the inspection again. In the event of a negative judgment, the House intervenes. That is monitoring, and that is not effective. Our preference is to re-examine such an inspection, perhaps in consultation with the House. There are other reasons for this. Inspections have specific know-how. They have many and heavy sanctions and means of coercion at their disposal. The House, on the other hand, can only make a recommendation. Fear culture and mismanagement have so far proved to be the gaps in the scope of all 30 or 31 inspections, supervisors and the Public Prosecutor's Office. My group assumes that inspections themselves can very well cover this gap in the tasks. Market surveillance authorities, authorities and inspections have spoken out against investigation by the House in their field of activity. Then why do the initiators keep open the possibility that the House itself is investigating a miscarriage? I come to the second point of criticism, namely the secrecy of research information. Should there be an unexpected investigation by the House into a suspicion of a miscarriage, the bill says that this investigation will be concluded with a report. The report contains an analysis of the situation, the identification of probable causes and recommendations. The report is public. Research information not contained in the report is not public. The latter raises questions with my group. The bill rightly states that the House must comply with Article 10 of the WOB. That's what the WOB allows to remain secret at the most. More secrecy doesn't allow the WOB. So far, the bill and the WOB agree. However, the bill also states that the House may keep more secret if it is called research information. Whatever research information is, the House determines. The House itself can draw the line between conclusions on the one hand and research information on the other. By keeping the report limited and at the same time identifying a lot of data as research information, more can be kept secret. Legally, it's okay. Article 2 of the WOB allows for this. But is it desirable? Yes, the petitioners say, because public access must not be an obstacle to the whistleblower's arrival. My group sees that differently. Publicity also serves to draw lessons from the failings. If we want to protect the whistleblower, we should not restrict public access, but we should have anonymity and the investigation of the disease. That is what this initiative provides for, especially when it would be complemented by legal assistance from the House. Our starting point is that research itself is not public, because of an undisturbed and therefore correct conduct of the investigation. However, after closing an investigation, all information and conclusions should be publicly available, except for a few WOB exceptions. These can be found in Article 10. Thorbecke said: nothing works as purifying as the light of public access. So also in the case of abuses, I add. Similarly, the WOB has been set up: active public access, with Article 10 specifying the exceptions. In this legislative proposal, the VVD Group considers openness to be of great importance. This is very important for the press and the public. They need to know what they're up to. They must know the facts so that we can all learn from them. It is also important for those directly involved. They must be able to defend themselves. All the information is needed, not just part of it. Anyone should be able to check whether the underlying information can bear the research conclusions. Moreover, in the case of major and important matters, it is not unlikely that all kinds of secret information will come out suddenly or piece by piece, with all the consequences of that. This may be a rather banal reason, but I'm calling him. Would it not be preferable not only to publish the report, but also the underlying research information, taking into account, of course, Article 10 of the WOB? I'm gonna come up with the legal remedies. The research department makes all kinds of decisions, during the investigation and at the final report. For example, she asks the following questions. Is the whistleblower admissible? Has the report of a failure been properly dealt with, internally or by a supervisor? Can an ongoing investigation be stopped? What does the department include in the final report and what is left out? If we see it correctly, most of these decisions are not subject to appeal. We would like to hear from the proposers whether this is true. The Trade Law Association fully dedicated its meeting in December 2015 to this bill. In itself this is complimentary, but in their pre-advisations Mr. Matthijs Kuijpers and Prof. Kortmann put critical notes in the virtually absence of legal remedies. As an argument for the exclusion of appeal, the applicants refer to the avoidance of delay and of legalisation. My group doubts whether this argument justifies the exclusion of appeal. The final report may have serious consequences, in particular for the organisation, such as reputational damage or liability actions. Access to justice is a fundamental right. The House may decide to exclude research information from the final report. That information will be classified. This may seriously impede the organisation's defence against a negative final report. Article 8 (3) of the bill states that the report does not establish civil or criminal guilt or liability. However, there are many procedures to be expected, relying on everything in the report. This results in delays and legalisation, something the proposers wanted to avoid. How do the applicants assess these objections? Is it to be hoped that the House will be extremely reluctant to investigate itself, so that the issues raised with secrecy and the lack of legal remedies will not arise? Finally, I would like to draw attention to some of the shortcomings in the documents. Sometimes the reply contains a different text from that contained in the law itself. We assume that the legal text applies, but this may create confusion. Sometimes there are linguistic errors in the legal text. Transparency International Netherlands has made many comments in the margins of the legislative text and provided examples of slowness. What are the authors going to do with these comments? Or do we accept a legal text with linguistic errors, here in the room where the Great Dictee of the Dutch language is given? The VVD Group is sympathetic to the involvement of the initiators, but my group is not uncritical about the design. We look forward to receiving the answers from the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have already mentioned it: this bill has a turbulent history. Perhaps that history will come to a conclusion in Parliament next week. In May 2014, the proposal had a first round in this Chamber. A large majority, including my esteemed former colleague Ruud Koole, who then spoke on behalf of our group, expressed a very critical view of the constitutional sustainability of the proposal at the time. Fortunately, the authors have shown a willingness to listen carefully to these signals and to the new opinion of the Council of State. In fact, today there is a completely new proposal, which has a number of significant improvements compared to the previous version. For example, the House for Whistleblowers is no longer housed with the National Ombudsman, a solid stone of offense in the first round here, but becomes a Zbo, with the independence of the Minister explicitly secured. The admissibility of the House has also been clarified. It is now established which other roads a whistleblower must have reasonably passed before he or she can report to the House. There has been a clear description of the powers of the House in the public and private sectors. In the design of the House, a clear and workable separation has now been established between advice and research. In the written round, we, like a number of colleagues, asked the necessary questions, which were answered convincingly in our opinion by the authors. As the finish line approaches, a compliment is particularly appropriate for Mr Van Raak's persistence and continued commitment. He is the only one of the signatories to the bill who has experienced this journey from A to Z and hopefully will take it over the finish line next week, because our group feels sympathy for this bill. Whistleblowing about a real miscarriage does not often happen in our country, which shows the figures given by the Minister. But when it happens, the consequences for the person in question are often very profound. The House and this bill will be able to play a positive role in assisting and guiding people who take the trouble to risk their jobs, their peace of mind and other security in their lives in order to expose a situation that is damaging to society as a whole. However, we too have a number of questions about this novelle today. Precisely because whistleblowers are vulnerable, they deserve a carefully and properly tested legal framework. If this proposal is made law, then the signed-off added value must have compared to a simple merger of the Klokluiders Advisory Point and the Integrity General Research Council, and then the body formed as such also give powers to the private sector. Such a thing could have been solved with a simple motion from the House of Representatives. Today we must also ask questions that could be invented by the devil's lawyer. After all, this debate contributes to the interpretation of the law and the emergence of case law. We would appreciate it if the authors today would express the added value of the House very precisely. The text in the reply is a little too easy for us, about synergy, pooling of experience and knowledge. I quote: 'A leading institute in the field of advice and research into suspicions of abuses, which could increasingly generate awareness and be easily accessible and easy to find for those involved'. Those are beautiful, roaring lyrics, but they don't bring us much more. As the proposers themselves point out, the Netherlands has a very fine system of inspections, supervisors and other bodies, not least the criminal chain, where citizens can very well find out about these abuses. Again, where is the added value? That question is also important for determining the admissibility of the House. Whistleblowers can go there if the jurisdiction of existing authorities can't help them, so much is clear. But what if an inspection or an external supervisor does a proper and thorough investigation and comes to the conclusion that there is no error, and the reporter does not accept that? Is the House going to do another investigation like that? In other words, will the House act as an appeal body for existing inspections and supervisors? Frankly, my group is afraid of that. In such a case, the House would have no effect other than to continue feeding suspicion and mistrust in our society, and we are now very little short of that. On the contrary. The applicants describe the added value in relation to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the reply as: examination of the defect solely aimed at establishing the facts or the facts. Truth finding. That statement also calls for further clarification. Doesn't the DA do that in the eyes of the petitioners now? Finally, the proposers point out the apparent impossibility for inspections or supervisors to take action in the event of serious mismanagement. This raises the question of whether the reporters of a situation of this kind should not first call into question the internal supervision of an organisation: the supervisory board or the supervisory board. They are the appropriate party to intervene if there is mismanagement in an organisation, and then it does not even have to be serious. Will the House declare itself inadmissible for investigation if whistleblowers have skipped the conversation with the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board, we ask the proposers. So far, I have spoken in line with the bill of whistleblowers and whistleblowers, but this use of words should not stand in the way of a deeper interpretation of those two concepts. In fact, I noticed that the concept of whistleblower, which is the subject of this whole legislative proposal, is not defined in the legal text, not in this novelle, but not in the original legislative proposal. To be honest, that surprised me, especially since the bill is entirely attributed to the position of employees in permanent employment. Anyone looking for the concept of a whistleblower for something as simple as Wikipedia can see that a much broader concept is used there. Not only can an employee be a whistleblower, but also an interested party, from within or outside an organisation, who openly denounces abuses. In other words, alsozzp'ers, trainees and volunteers; people who may even be able to use the legal protection of the legislation better in whistle-blowing than permanent workers. The applicants stated in the written exchange of views that they found protection of other categories of whistleblowers difficult and did not wish to extend the concept of employee in the Civil Code. Protection of these groups,zzp'ers, trainees, volunteers, should be included in the evaluation. This reasoning does not convince us. If, from the outset, the proposers had chosen to work with the concept of whistleblower instead of employee, would they not have had to extend the concept of employee in the WW? That something's tricky doesn't have to be a reason to leave it behind, does it? We would like to have a more detailed explanation from the authors. Canzzp'ers, trainees and volunteers go to the House? How do they find protection there if it appears that their notification should indeed give rise to an investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u8	I thought I would derive from the authors' legal text that the term 'worker' also means the person who, other than in employment, has worked or has worked, and that is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u9	That could be very good. Mrs Bikker asked written questions about this. In the reply, the proposers say that they exclude these groups. That leads to a lack of clarity. I think it would be good if that ambiguity were removed today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u10	It is important that an interpretation is given here, but I would like to take the primary texts as my starting point. Would Mrs Barth be able to read the text on the person who is or has been engaged in employment other than in employment, other than what I have just said, namelyzzp'ers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u11	Then you might talk aboutzzp'ers, but not about volunteers. It's also very complicated with interns. I'm talking about three different groups. The applicants' reply has given rise to a lack of clarity in this regard. We like to hear a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u12	My questions to the authors also referred to the legal protection which applies to the various categories. I assume the PvdA shares that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u13	Very. This bill, as has been said, offers protection to whistleblowers. The proposal adds Articles 18 and 18a, Article 658c to the WFD and Article 125d, paragraph 3, to the Civil Service Act on the protection of employees against employers when reporting in good faith a failure. Would the proposers today indicate exactly what the added value of these articles is in relation to the current duty of care of employers, as laid down in Article 7:658 of the Civil Code, and the duty of good employership, as set out in Article 7:611 of the Civil Code and Article 125ter Civil Service Act? I must say that the answer cannot be the examples of employers, including the government, who have not complied with the existing provisions in well-known whistleblower cases. The best solution for a law article that is violated is not by definition a new provision in the law, but that is first and foremost enforcement of the law. Hence my question: which loopholes in the law will be closed with Articles 18 and 18a of this bill? How did the proposers find that this is a loophole in labour law? Is there, for example, case law that they can fall back on? The last point we want to discuss today concerns the costs of the House for whistleblowers. In the written round we asked why the costs of an investigation are not passed on to an employer or body which is found to have indeed been wrong. We have received a very unsatisfactory reply in writing or no answer at all. The authors give the impression that we would have asked for financial support for detectors instead of offering an investigation through the House, but that is certainly not the case. Our question focused on the existing practice at the Research Council Integrity Government, which charges part of the costs or the full costs of a proper investigation to the relevant government after completion. We do not think that teaching is so bad at all. In addition, the payment of such a contribution brings to the administrative table the notification of a failure, i.e. if the budget has to include payment. In this question, it is wise to observe that most of the reports, including those from the House, are not expected to be grand and compelling matters in which, deliberately and maliciously, rules have been broken, and the fact that the rightful publicity is already causing the offender the necessary damage. Most of the reports will cover wrongly-grown practices of people who do not realize or do not want to notice that times and standards have changed. Again, at a time like this, charging afterward is not so crazy. I would therefore like to receive an answer today from the authors as to whether they have considered doing so and why they have decided not to do so. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister about the costs of the House. In his written replies, the Minister states that the Cabinet currently has €400,000 in structuralally available for the House for whistleblowers. Isn't that on top of the cost of the current advisory point and the Research Council Integrity Government? If so, how much is the House going to cost? We await the answers to our questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me congratulate the initiators, whose names are constantly changing, but whose leader, Mr Van Raak, is a beacon of continuity in this legislative procedure, on the fact that we can and will probably come to a final judgment at last, just four years after the original legislative proposal has been tabled. This wish of luck also applies to the advisers of the initiators. Legislation takes time and effort, and that has been underlined by this legislative proposal. I believe that, without embarrassing the other Members of Parliament, I should particularly like to congratulate Mr Van Raak on the great amount of work he has put into this initiative proposal. Partly this work was enforced by the first-term examination in the First Chamber, which led to detention of the proposal and reflection and then to a novella which we are now discussing jointly with the original proposal. In May 2014, this Chamber strongly urged a joint effort between the initiators and the minister. Looks like that has led to fruitful results. The initiators put syrup in the written documents to explain our mouths by ex cathedra that the discussion with the First Chamber has led to a better bill. We take this for granted, of course, and Mr Van Raak, as a former Member of this Chamber, will have realised it. But it is nice to remember it, especially in the light of the discussion about the future stability of the two-chamber system. In May 2014, I said, on behalf of the D66 Group, that if there is such a strong support for an initiative proposal in the Lower House, the Upper House should have additional consideration and have very good arguments for rejecting such a proposal, especially if the political-social motive for the proposal is shared. This was the case with the proposal for a House for whistleblowers, of which important elements were also widely endorsed: the creation of an independent research institution, a strong protection of the labour law position and adequate advice and support for the prospective whistleblower. Nevertheless, two years ago, my group had serious objections to the proposal before us which would have led us to vote against if it had been put to the vote. Those objections were raised on four themes. The question is whether the novelle has adequately met these concerns. I can save a lot of speaking time because of the very detailed reply. First of all, I would like to comment on the fact that, of course, my group has also observed that there is a conflict with Article 78a of the Constitution. The discussion then focused in particular on the interpretation of the fourth paragraph of this article: to what extent does it allow the National Ombudsman's task to investigate the conduct of the Empire and other administrative bodies to include a research mission aimed at private institutions? We are pleased that the initiators and the House of Representatives have returned to their steps by taking the House for whistleblowers completely out of the National Ombudsman's house. This has led to the removal of the constitutional obstacle. Moreover, in the light of the current state of affairs surrounding the National Ombudsman, I would not have known whether the installation of whistleblowers' facilities through a separate substitute ombudsman at this High College of State would have been happy at all. There will now be a separate independent administrative body which, although it does not have the status of High College of State, has sufficient guarantees of independence. The novelle shall, where necessary, regulate specialization in relation to the arrangements in the Framework Act for self-employed administrative bodies, including in relation to the appointment of directors. This seems to us to be a good solution, which provides sufficient guarantees for the independence of the mission vis-à-vis the government. The second objection saw the unclear confluence of the House's investigation task for whistleblowers with the enforcement and investigation tasks of market masters, supervisors and inspections. My group considers the distinction in the new regulation to be much clearer, now that it has been highlighted that the investigation task of the House for whistleblowers cannot be competitive, but only complementary and complementary if there has been no research by others or if, despite previous research, there still seems to be an error. In practice, separation questions will still remain, but I trust that they will be resolved, possibly through further regulation. I would also ask the Minister to shed his light on this. The third objection concerned the intertwining of the public and private standards system, now that the legislative proposal regulates that the research task and related powers extend not only to the bodies governed by public law, but also to private bodies and thus to citizens and businesses. My group wondered whether the use of public-law investigative powers in the private sector sufficiently guaranteed the fundamental rights of citizens and fit into our system of legal guarantees and legal protection. The Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations was also very critical of this, I remember. In response, the initiators have now developed a system with different regimes for the public and private sectors. That is complicated, but it is necessary in our view. The unargued application to the private sector of the powers under the General Administrative Law without any legal defence was actually somewhat inconvenient. With the Minister, my group believes that what is now before us can pass the test of criticism, both with regard to the powers of investigation and the grounds for refusal, and with regard to the possibility of objection, appeal and information restrictions. The objection we have raised has therefore also lapsed. The fourth objection concerned the combination of advice and research within one body. "Lawyer and judge under one roof" I called it earlier. That is not generally recommended. If it were inevitable in the case of the whistleblowers' house, it would seem difficult to imagine the creation of two separate independent administrative bodies, at least high Chinese walls between the various functions, the related powers and officials would have to be established. That is indeed what is happening in the amended legislative proposal, but the question is whether that is sufficient. I therefore have a few questions and comments to make. In the written documents, the initiators refer to the independent advice on how to deal with a suspicion of wrongdoing as the main reason for introducing a separation between advice and research. I believe that the independence of research itself is also essential. The Chinese wall is equally important on both sides. For this reason, I would like to ask the initiators to explain again exactly what they intend to do with Article 3a, third paragraph (c): the power to carry out a general examination following one or more referrals. Although I understand their aim of protecting fearful workers, is this not too easy to entangle the advisory function and the research function? Do the colleagues in the department advise the directors and staff of the research department to actually conduct that investigation? Isn't that research already colored in advance because it's more or less self-initiated? Another element is that the law itself gives little indication of the separation of functions of the directors within the House. During the advisory phase, only the directors of the section shall speak on the individual case, supplemented, if necessary, by the president. What do you mean, the chairman? What's the reason for that? Does the President therefore have the right to sit with the directors who carry out the investigation and ultimately assess it? So does the chairman have those two souls in one breast? This should be avoided by the strict separation between advice and research. As far as I can see, the law itself has no prohibition to discuss an individual case in the entire board during the advisory period. Shouldn't that be explicitly regulated? If the employee has taken the step to investigate, by submitting a request and making a statement of no objection to the provision of information from the research department to the department, at least the whole board may discuss the case, the initiators said. It appears that the independence of the investigation will no longer require any further assurance. The initiators consider it the responsibility of each individual driver to remain within his or her role. To be honest, I do not find that very convincing, nor do I find the continued consultative task of the department very clear and logical during the research phase. To put it bluntly: lawyers and judges, all housed in the courtroom, speak together about the pending case and the lawyer links it back to his client. If that were the case in civil law or administrative law, the Lower House members sitting behind the table would probably have tabled an initiative proposal to change that as soon as possible. In short, I would appreciate it if the initiators would like to go into this again. I no longer want to stop the law, but do they not agree with me that in future, through a General Measure or otherwise, we should better regulate it and, above all, better separate it? The same is true of the position of the President. Is he or she some kind of Ombudsman for the whistleblowers? Is the President the figurehead outside and, therefore, the one who brings the House's opinion out in an individual inquiry, explaining it and, if necessary, justifying it? Or is the chairman just the prosecutor and the general manager, who is responsible for the budget, housing and good relations with the outside world? All this remains a bit the weak spot in the proposal, even in its improved version. Perhaps the Minister would like to comment on this as well. In view of the four objections raised by my group to the original proposal, I would like to conclude that the novel three of them have been removed. That's a wonderful achievement. A good answer to my comments and questions could further increase the score. I hope so, of course, because we will be able to give our full support to the amended proposal. Many of our other questions and comments are already sufficiently addressed in the reply. I refer in particular to the provisions of Article 7 concerning the communication to the applicant and to the employer if the investigation department does not initiate an investigation. I am pleased that the initiators and the Minister agree with us that it is indeed not desirable that the obligation of communication should apply even if the investigation department decides inadmissibility. A preliminary solution can be found in the research protocol, but that will have to be repaired with the law in due course. Can the Minister promise that he will include this in his legislative planning? Given the motto of the initiators that discussion with the First Chamber always makes laws better, we are confidently waiting for our questions to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a big thank you to the initiators, who are once again present in our Senate, our First Chamber. I congratulate them on the good work they have done since our last meeting, but certainly also on all the work they have done. Apart from the compliments to all of you, I would like to join in the special compliments to Mr Van Raak, who has an incredible perseverance on this subject. In my group's view, the initiators have made important changes to the novelle following the many important criticisms made last time. That's good for me. When dealing with the original legislative proposal, I already argued that GroenLinks considers it very important that whistleblowers be better protected and that their reports are taken up more effectively so that social abuses can be dealt with. From many affairs, such as construction fraud, we now know that fraud is often difficult to detect and that ringing the bell by an initiate who sticks out his neck is indispensable to bring about abuses. The Netherlands has long fallen behind in the protection of the whistleblower, who often put his own job, his own well-being, his social contacts and also the opportunities for new work at risk. In the meantime, of course, some things have happened. We have the Advisory Point Whistleblowers and the Research Council Integrity Government. However, there was still no adequate protection for whistleblowers in the private sector, among other things. This bill fills gaps. The Advisory Point Whistleblowers and the Research Council Integrity Government will merge into the new House for whistleblowers. I would like to endorse Mrs Barth's question, which is: will the proposers state exactly what, in their view, is the added value of the House as it is, we hope, coming about soon? As I said, a number of fundamental criticisms were made during the previous discussion. In my opinion, the novels were well picked up. I'd like to walk by the points. First of all, I come to the House for whistleblowers at the National Ombudsman. Our Chamber saw a tension with Article 78a of the Constitution, in which the Ombudsman's task is in fact limited to investigating abuses in the public sector. We therefore support the choice of initiators to position the House as a Zbo, with extra attention to the independent position of this Zbo. In this case, of course, that is very important. The Eerste Kamer also criticised the use of the regime of the General Administrative Law Act for the private sector. In this novelle a separate regime has been set up for the private sector. That too is an important plus. Much has been said about the distinction between the advisory function and the research function. We also felt that this distinction was not sufficiently sharp and insufficiently secured. In the novelle the distinction has now been made very clearly. The tasks are defined. The department advises the whistleblower and should be fully at the service of the whistleblower. We welcome that. However, there may still be tension between the opinion department and the investigation department, for example at the time when a decision on a declaration of admissibility has to be taken or when it has to be considered whether or not an earlier investigation has been carried out by a more competent administrative body and whether or not an investigation by the House should be carried out. During the research phase there may also be tension between the advisory department and the research department. We are not so worried about this right now that we already think that this will not work in advance. However, it would do us good if the initiators were to shed their light on it. What dilemmas do the proposers see and what guarantees does this bill offer, so that these two departments can properly guard their own territory, without any confusion? Like Mrs Van Bijsterveld, I still have a question about the precise position of the board and the chairman in relation to the two tasks of the House, advice and research. I understood that when the House finally comes to an investigation, the board can receive and discuss the information in both areas. I would like to have a further explanation of that. A fourth point of discussion with this Chamber the previous time concerned the coincidence between investigation by the House and investigation by the Public Prosecutor, inspections and supervisors. We did not think that was sufficiently thought-out. The scope of legal protection was also not sufficiently stated. In our view, this has now definitely improved. Protocols regulate how the investigation by the House is prevented from driving the investigation by the Public Prosecutor and the like into the wheels. My group asks the authors to explain again why these protocols, unlike those of the Security Research Council, are not regulated by law. Perhaps the proposers can still shed their light on that. We have one other question. Following the written exchange, the idea seemed to arise, in particular as regards Article 7 of the novella, that if the House decides not to investigate after a notification, the House would inform both the employee, the whistleblower, and the employer. However, that can be extremely annoying for the whistleblower. That wasn't supposed to happen. It seems to me to be completely unnecessary. The Minister also mentioned this in his letter and indicated that this should be repaired. I would like to hear from the authors how they see this and perhaps from the Minister how this omission can be repaired in the short term. The investigation department of the House carries out the independence test of a notification. Can the applicants explain the criteria used? We also have a question about the budget. The Minister has indicated that €400,000 is currently structurally available. Is that on top of the budgets that are already available for the Advisory Point Whistleblowers and the Research Council Integrity Government? Do the proposers think this budget is sufficient? I ask the Minister, should the House start running like a train, if there are many important cases being reported and if there is a lot of work, if it is possible to look at an increase in the budget in the end. I'd like an explanation. Finally, I would like to say the following to the authors. My group supports this law. We think it is important for this House to be there, but the real success lies in the implementation. Is it all going to happen, as the proposers wish and want? This is about commitment, but also about cultural change. In this respect, I would like to draw your attention to the recent story: it is only an example; I would like to emphasise that of an ex-confidence person at the Ministry of Justice and Security, because that is quite illustrative. There is a structure in which people can report, in which people can get rid of their complaints, but the experience of this ex-confidence person is that people often don't, because they're afraid they'll get into trouble somehow. We see this culture in all kinds of places, both in the government and in companies. It's not done to say something, which may get your company in trouble, which may burden your colleagues and make you disloyal to your own organization. That's not how we people are. If we work somewhere, we like to do something that's good for the whole club. When you come to the conclusion that something serious is going on, so that you have to bring it out, so that something happens to it, even if you might get your organization into trouble, then you need courage. It is very nice that there is a House for whistleblowers where you can go, but I think more is needed. Ultimately, it is very important to create an atmosphere within organisations, where it should be possible to report complaints. I would like to hear from the proposers whether they believe that the House can play a role in this cultural change within organisations, private or government. I'm rounding up. I already told you. We are in favour of the novelle. The authors have done important work and made significant improvements. We hope that the law can enter into force quickly and that the House can start to do so. There will be working evidence that some things might be a bit better, which should be different, but there is a good legal basis. As far as we are concerned, we agree, and we hope to see the House soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u16	Mr. Chairman. After years of preparation, we are discussing today's initiative proposal Wet Huis voor kloeblowers. We are doing this with a wide-ranging group of initiators, whom I thank for the great work they have done to arrive at this solid proposal. Our thanks also go to the many others who contributed to this bill, of which I would like to mention Pieter van Vollenhoven and Alex Brenninkmeijer here. All efforts and critical contributions have led to a completely improved version of the bill, compared to the previous one, which our Chamber discussed in 2014. We believe that the improvements requested at that time have been implemented. The SP Group can therefore be even more positive than last time. However, it is only the beginning, Mr Van Raak. The House for Whistleblowers aims to be a safe place for whistleblowers, people who want to raise a suspected wrongdoing in their work. In the past whistleblowers have sometimes themselves been the victims of their revelations, for example because they were fired by their employer. Because they rang the bell against the tribulation, these people deserve our praise all the more. But the ominous way in which they were treated, of course, did not encourage others to also sound the bell about abuses themselves. Good legal protection for whistleblowers is therefore certainly in place. During the years of this law's formation, new bodies have been set up a few years ago where whistleblowers can go. I refer to the Advisory Point on Whistleblowers, where employees, officials,zzp'ers, trainees and volunteers can go confidentially for advice on how to deal with a suspicion of a failure, and the Research Council on Integrity Government, an external whistleblower authority that investigates reports of a suspicion of a failure by officials and reports on this to the competent authority. These two authorities are involved in the House for whistleblowers. There will be two separate sections: one for advice and one for research. The House shall not enter into the tasks and powers of other bodies, inspections and supervisors, but shall refer to them and, if necessary, carry out additional tasks. This may also be additional research in certain cases. This division of labour is clearly laid down in the improved legislative proposal. The opinion section will provide information and advice to those who wish to raise a suspicion of miscarriage. Experiences with the already existing Advice Point Whistleblowers show that there is definitely a need for this. The research department will in particular carry out additional research. How much it needs, the future will learn. But because the investigation may also concern the treatment of people who have otherwise reported an alleged miscarriage, there is at least an independent task here. The investigation report and any recommendations will become public, and this may prove to be a value in itself. Whether the recommendations will be followed will have to be demonstrated. From some quarters we hear that the House does not add much to the activities already carried out by the Advisory Point Whistleblowers and the Research Council Integrity Government. Apart from the fact that the legal anchoring of these activities is already valuable in itself, I believe that this claim is incorrect. Like Mrs Barth and Mrs Vos, I would like to ask the authors of the bill once again to state what the added value of the House for whistleblowers is in this respect. In the long legislative process, almost all imaginable questions have been asked and are now satisfactorily answered. But on two points our group would like some clarification. The first concerns the legal protection of self-employed, trainees and volunteers. In the public debate, in the written consultation on the proposal and just now by Mrs Barth, the question has been raised as to whether this protection is as well regulated as that for employees. Can the initiators go into that again? The second point is of a legislative nature. Mrs Van Bijsterveld, Mr De Graaf and Mrs Vos also spoke about this, but I shall reword the question. Article 7 of the amended bill states: "If the investigation department does not investigate or does not continue, it shall inform the applicant and the employer in writing as soon as possible, stating the reasons.' To D66's question on this matter, the Minister, who was asked a question about it, replied that it was wrongly stated in the amended legislative proposal that this communication should also be sent to the employer and that this omission should be repaired in due course. Beautiful formulation, "in due time." In the reply, the initiators state that the communication from Article 7 only goes to the employer if an investigation is not continued and that this can be specified in the research protocol to be drawn up. That is absolutely right. My question, however, is whether it is not appropriate to correct the legal text in this way at a later date. Mr. Chairman. We are curious about the reaction of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a surprise: I am also making this contribution on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Where the Christian Union Group asks a question, the authors and you may think that the SGP also has that question in mind. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors of this bill, which is widely supported in the House of Representatives. The comments of the First Chamber at the first edition of the bill were taken up with a constructive spirit. That has, I think, been a lot of work, but has resulted in a legislative proposal which, in my group's view, represents a good improvement. My group also believes that this commitment is necessary, because, unfortunately, in recent years, it has been shown time and again that organisations can corrupt. Nor does the government have a clean record in this respect. I am thinking of the serious findings at the NZa and of one of the employees, who was therefore in a very difficult position. Those who read such histories wonder at the lack of reflection within an organization and shudder at the position a whistleblower then has. Difficult years fall to him and even if the wrongs have been successfully denounced, the individual suffering is usually not over. It is therefore that the Christian Union Group can very much agree with the objective of this bill: to strengthen the lonely position of whistleblowers. Now, in the ideal situation, there is no need for such a house for whistleblowers. Companies, government and non-profits should have their structure and culture in order that reflection and criticism are welcome, so that people are safe to complain and all the things that have been rigged work to make people powerful in responding to abuses, so that those concerned take their responsibility in a healthy way and never reach the stage of whistleblowing. The legislative proposal now provides for a procedure to be established for any employer with more than 50 persons employed, taking into account everything that has already been done. My group believes that this internal regulation is important, but also has a number of questions. How is it prevented that this procedure is mainly limited to compliance with the letter of the law, without reflection on the culture within an organisation? Is this procedure particularly recommended in terms of prevention by all the relevant authorities that have already gained a lot of experience, such as the Expert Group on Whistleblowers and the Advice Point on Whistleblowers? Or are there other forms of prevention that are not covered by legislation? Then what reflection do the proposers have on that? Then I come to the border of 50 people. This limit is based on the Works Councils Act. However, this law also provides, for example, for a joint works council if an employer has two or more undertakings that add together to more than 50 persons employed. How do the proposers consider that given? Moreover, this law only exceptionally includes the flexible skin ofzzp'ers, payroll and other flex workers as employed by the company. Has there been contact with employers' and trade unions for a model procedure for smaller bodies or branches? Is there going to be such a thing, or isn't it at all? I would like to hear a comment from the authors on this point. With regard to the flexibility of working people, the authors, in response to questions from my group, indicate that they base the concept of an employee on the current state of affairs in the Civil Code and, as far as civil servants are concerned, look at the Civil Service Act. That is, of course, fair; however, it has implications for legal protection. This has just been mentioned in the discussion with Mrs Barth. According to the authors, this aspect should be explicitly part of a future review of the law. I ask them when they want that evaluation. Do they therefore expect changes to be made to the legislation? I ask the advisor to this Chamber, the Minister for the Interior, to reflect on the position of the flexible shell, particularly in the light of the Recommendation on the protection of whistleblowers of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, and in particular Article 4. Does he think that this bill adequately meets that recommendation? Then I come to speak about the House itself. Where the previous debate was still of a constitutional nature, the authors have now opted for a form by means of an independent administrative body. A number of derogations from the Framework Act have been incorporated into this bill, which gives the Minister of the Interior powers only with regard to financial management and administrative organisation. The authors confirm the view of the Council of State that responsibility for the policy pursued will have to go to Lower House. I ask them to clarify how they consider this policy accountability sufficiently secure. In response to questions from my group, they talk about the annual report and reports. The annual report is a legal requirement, but what do they mean by reporting and how do they see the role of the House of Representatives? The establishment of the House has a sharp separation between the department's opinion and the research department. Only the chairman is concerned about either, but he is not of either member. The answer makes it clear that he or she does indeed have a role in both departments. Practically, that can get complicated sometimes. That's why I have some enlightening questions. To reply to this Chamber, I understood that the President would not interfere at this level. However, on page 5 of the reply, it is outlined that the President shall, if necessary, refer the matter to the section for an opinion on an individual case. What is it now? Suppose the chairman first interfered with, for example, improving the quality of advice in a particular case. Suppose this case leads to a major investigation later, with a lot of publicity. Once again, the president, as a figurehead of the organisation, will be looked at to talk about this. Is that okay? Or is this again the level of the case that the President has no involvement in? But how can he or she be a figurehead? How do the proposers rhyme with this? My group is concerned about the workability of this solution. There are also up to four members on the board of the House, and a more detailed breakdown of the department of advice and research should be decided by the House itself. A division of three members into one section and one member into the other section is also possible. In this case, how are the quality and internal checks-and-balances secured? How is the President prevented from becoming a sort of flying keep when this distribution is not working properly or where expertise is limited? I'd like an explanation. With regard to the investigative function, many have already referred to overlaps with other supervisory bodies and inspections. Such cooperation must be agreed. Protocols are chosen. My group considers the House for whistleblowers to be the exception; in the first instance it will be the inspection and monitoring bodies that deal with things that are not right. But besides that, it is of course good to make agreements. However, at the Research Council for Security, the relationship to other proceedings, in particular criminal investigations, is explicitly enshrined in the Rijkswet, in Article 69. Why not opt for a similar arrangement? How does the Minister for the Interior assess this difference in frameworks in order to achieve good and sound cooperation? Moreover, the Christian Union Group remains of the opinion that, in the event of abuses, the directly designated supervisory bodies have a primary role to play. Is that in the protocols, too? How do the proposers see that? All in all, there is a much improved legislative proposal with the legitimate objective of giving shape to the protection of whistleblowers and addressing abuses. The link with the National Ombudsman has rightly been cut and efforts have been made to make a better distinction between advice and research. However, my group still has a number of questions concerning the important objective of prevention, the promotion of a good culture in the various organisations and the feasibility of the proposal. That is why I am very much looking forward to replying to the authors, partly on behalf of the SGP colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate those Members who have taken the initiative for legislation on the protection of whistleblowers, and, of course, especially Mr Van Raak, who has been involved and is still involved from the outset. My group, with the initiators, is deeply concerned about the possibilities of civil servants and employees in the private sector to report abuses, given the problems in which known and less well-known whistleblowers have become involved. It is worrying that there are still people's representatives who get restless when they hear the bell ringing. Some are even so restless that, when they hear the bell ringing, they are willing to pull the valve through the shredder and ignore or even calt it. It is still fresh in the memory that in 2010 a control manager of the Food and Waren Authority was prosecuted by the government for having made a secret report public in 2008. That report said that the supervision of the VWA for slaughterhouses and animal transport was seriously failing in many respects. The then Minister of LNV (Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality) saw reporting of this failure as something that deserves anything but appreciation. It referred to the leaking of confidential information and the misuse of government employment knowledge for political purposes, thereby damaging the integrity of the government. The report that this whistleblower brought out led to several debates in the House of Representatives, two committees of inquiry and a strengthened monitoring of the livestock and meat sector. If this report had not been brought out by the whistleblower, Parliament would have had no insight into the failure of this public service. Even the VWA later indicated in its annual report that the elaboration of the information and the subsequent discussion had had a beneficial effect. Nevertheless, the official concerned was prosecuted and found guilty. I went through that up close because the whistleblower was a partner of one of the members of this house. She was hunted down by a government that had itself gone wrong, but did not wish to be called upon to do so. She was declared guilty because she brought out the truth, because she could not reconcile concealing that truth with her conscience. Although the judge decided not to impose penalties, this is not the way in which a government should stand in the way of truth finding. I would like to thank the initiators for their proposal to improve the position of whistleblowers. Whistleblowers perform an important social task and deserve our support and protection. The initiative legislative proposal and the novelle we are discussing today will provide a legal basis for this support and concern. If an employee wishes to report a failure, he can, if this bill is passed, go to the House for whistleblowers. That's where his report is being examined, and if it turns out that that report is well founded, there's gonna be a fact-finding investigation. The employee's position is protected, so there's no need to fear dismissal. For distressing cases, there is a fund to which the whistleblower can rely. That provides protection and security, and that is what whistleblowers urgently needed and need. It is good that the letter of amendment makes it possible, for example, for contractors andzzp'ers to report abuses. Anyone who often comes across the floor of an organization may notice abuses and feel the need to report and repair them. Good regulation for whistleblowers is crucial in a democratic rule of law. The lack of such a regulation raises important abuses, such as integrity problems in governance, misuse of public funds and threats to public health, animal welfare, safety and the environment, not or hardly on the surface. At the same time, it is important to note that, unfortunately, there is still far too little value attached to whistleblowers in companies and government organisations. In too many cases whistleblowers are demonized, as if they were not loyal to the organization. It's the easy thing to put them away as queulers and snitches. In many cases, people who want to see wrongdoing resolved and are willing to put their own position on the line, appear to be the most loyal workers an employer could wish for. "Without a change of mind among employers and the government, the whistleblower (at least on the workplace) remains the scapegoat," wrote legal philosopher Iris van Domselaar at the first examination of the bill in the Volkskrant. Despite the protection that a whistleblower could get from the House and the fund, he will soon be seen as persona non grata or continue to be seen in his own organization. I would like to ask the authors what the House can do for whistleblowers to promote this much-needed mentality change in companies and governments towards whistleblowers. The authors write that the House will contribute to a culture in which people will report serious abuses earlier. Can they give examples of possible actions that the House can take to change culture in companies and public authorities in this respect? An experienced expert such as Fred Spijkers, the man who fought for years to restore honor after his resignation as a whistleblower at the Defense Department, has doubts. I quote him: "Of course this step is a good move. But potential whistleblowers must realize that it does not offer complete certainty. Both personally and financially. The proposal, as it was before the House of Representatives, offered more guarantees in this respect. But they were taken out, and that's too bad." What is the view of the initiators of this criticism by Fred Spijkers? Could that criticism have been overcome? The core tasks of the House for whistleblowers, the first of its kind in Europe, are the legal protection of whistleblowers and the investigation of reports they make. Notifications must go beyond the individual interest: risk to public health, to the safety of persons or to the environment, as well as fraud or corruption within a company. Those who later report an alleged wrongdoing as an employee know how to protect themselves by what is called a "discretionary ban' in the law. Are punishment expeditions, as Sjaak Jansen saw happening at the Ministry of Security and Justice, off the job, too? Whistleblowers would be crazy to report abuses, Jansen told NRC last week. In his time as a confidant in the department, he experienced that reporters of abuses got annoying work and were excluded from promotion. What change does this law bring to a ministry that literally doesn't care about openness and that doesn't like whistleblowers? I have some questions about that. Whistleblowers can come from all kinds of organisations and the abuses can cover all possible fields of work. I already mentioned the example of the abuses at the VWA. This was specifically about failing animal welfare and food safety monitoring. Other abuses can of course have to do with very different things, such as serious privacy violations by companies and governments. How is the House for whistleblowers going to ensure that it has specific knowledge at all times to make concrete recommendations to remedy the abuses? Does the House have sufficient resources for that? How can we, as a government, check whether the organisation does indeed implement the recommendations properly and whether this has actually remedied the abuses in the organisation? I understand that this is the responsibility of the Chamber itself, but what are the authors' thoughts on this? How can we monitor the implementation of the House's recommendations and their results? Where does the involvement of the House itself go in this respect? How can anyone, such as whistleblower Bos, have to fight for years for honor and financial compensation, lose everything they have, live in a motorhome and become victims of lawyers who want to work on the basis of no cure, no pay, but actually abuse the unprotected position of the whistleblower? I would like to conclude by complimenting the proposers on the difficult position of whistleblowers and on the design of the House for whistleblowers and the Whistleblowers Fund, so that people can report more easily social abuses in future. They can count on the warm support and agreement of my group. Unrighteousness must be combated and the fight against it must be facilitated by a democratic and just government. As far as my group is concerned, this proposal is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. We are having a special debate today. It is particularly special because the differences of opinion between the parties taking part in the debate today are very small. After all, we all recognise the value that whistleblowers have for society. The impressive line of proposers across from me already shows that. We all believe that whistleblowers should be well protected and supported. It is therefore a matter of special people: people who dare to denounce a serious displeasure in society, who do not hesitate to put the interests of society first and to take the personal consequences of it for granted, and who place the general interest above their own interests. You won't be surprised that we PVV's feel a special relationship with whistleblowers. The only one to open your mouth to bring about a great injustice, although you will not be thanked for that at all. Just say what one does not want to hear, because it has to be said. Bringing out deaf pots and throwing out cesspools, although this can often have a major impact on your private life. My group is therefore very much in favour of supporting and guiding whistle-blowers, not only from a moral duty to whistle-blowers, but also because good support and guidance may be able to lower the thresholds for potential whistle-blowers. Much has already been said about the importance of a good demarcation between the advice side and the research side in the still to be established House for whistleblowers. The PVV Group believes that the initiative legislative proposal, including the novelle that is now before us, provides sufficient guarantees for a careful separation of both functions. We are also very pleased that the House is now being set up as an independent administrative body. The previously proposed structure whereby the House would be housed in the National Ombudsman caused a high degree of inconvenience within my group. The political way in which the function of National Ombudsman has been fulfilled in recent years would, in our opinion, have undermined the independence and impartiality of the House for whistleblowers to be set up. Finally, I would like to congratulate and thank the authors for their hard work. We hope that the amended initiative proposal that is now before us will ensure easy access for all potential whistleblowers and provide them with the much needed support and guidance they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u20	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? I see that is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for a short break. A 20-minute break is provided. Can you get out of your way with that, Mr Van Raak? I understand that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u21	Mr. Chairman. I thank the members of the First Chamber. You were right and we were wrong. When I look at the current bill with this novelle, I must say that I am proud, because the bill is better than it was on 20 May 2014. On 20 May 2014, this Chamber did three things. I believe that these three things are also typical of the role of the First Chamber in our state system. First of all, you said that the law had to be implemented. You said there must be a House for whistleblowers. Secondly, you have given us an incredible amount of homework. Thirdly, you have said: initiators, start working well with the Minister and with the Ministry of the Interior. Let me start with that last one. It is not always easy for a SP'er, but I can tell you that that has gone very well. I can only say that cooperation with the Minister and the Ministry of the Interior has been extremely good. After the debate on 20 May 2014, we made an inventory of the comments you made, the wishes you had in the Upper Chamber and the advice you had with us. If there is a lot of advice and if there is a lot of homework, then that may lead to a knot, but in this case it turned out to be very good for each other. It proved quite possible to make a novella, which is very large, but which leaves the core of the bill intact, namely: protection of whistleblowers, investigation of abuses and recommendations on how to resolve it. It's really a whole list of changes. The First Chamber attached great value to a constitutional objection. That is a very serious objection. It concerns the housing of the House for whistleblowers to the National Ombudsman. We initially chose that model, because we felt that the House should be able to operate as independently as possible and the most independent thing we have is a High College of State. In that context, we did not choose to table a proposal for a constitutional change to make the House itself a High College of State, which seemed to us not proportionate, but rather to place it with the National Ombudsman. This means that the institution will have a wider scope by adding the House; it also sees the private sector. According to the Council of State, it is up to the States General to determine whether or not that is possible. The Lower House thought it was possible, the Upper House thought it couldn't be done, so it couldn't be done. We've been looking for an alternative. The Zbo, the independent administrative body, is of course such an alternative. We have looked closely at this, we have brought the House into line with the framework law on independent administrative bodies, and we have looked at how we can guarantee that independence as best we can. After all, we should not be in a situation where, for example, people from a ministry report a wrongdoing and that the minister could then influence the House. So we've excluded a number of things. The Minister can't ask for information, can't make policy rules and can't destroy anything. The Minister, together with the House of Representatives, is still looking at the question of whether the House functions well in the organisational and financial sense. Especially with this Minister, I am confident that the House will be able to make a good start. At first we had also noted that members are no longer appointed, suspended and dismissed by the Minister, but that the House of Representatives has a major role to play in this. Mr De Graaf has already pointed out that this may not always be a good road either. We have no problem with this being done by Royal Decree. We are confident that this Minister will ensure in a very good way that there will be a good President and good Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u22	It is always nice when MPs are complimentary to members of the government, but I would like to have an arrangement that does not depend on the fact that there is a great deal of confidence in this minister. Does this also apply to the next ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u23	Mr De Graaf is quite right about that. The House will play an important role in the appointment of a subsequent President or Members. Perhaps the Minister himself could comment on that. I assume that there will be a committee, a public procedure, and that in that committee, for example, people from the Advisory Point Whistleblowers, the OIO and the expert group will play a role. The way that goes, it's up to the quartermaster and the minister. I have the feeling that the Minister's intention is not that he should decide on a Sunday afternoon who will be the new President. On the contrary, this will be an open, clear procedure and a great deal of support will be provided. Mr. Chairman. The second point that is constantly mentioned is separation between advice and research. It must not be so, says the Chamber, that the people who advise a reporter, a whistleblower, are later involved in an investigation or that people who investigate a miscarriage have been more involved in advising. We have responded to the request of the First Chamber to make a legal distinction between advice and research, without running the risk of several organisations working alongside each other and hitting whistleblowers between ship and ship. Within the House, advice and research are separated both administratively and administratively. The members shall be appointed in an opinion section or in an investigation section and may not be part of both sections. Advisers and researchers will be appointed specifically for the advisory or research function. The legal function of advice and research and the related responsibilities are explicitly separated from each other. The President shall be responsible for the proper functioning of the House. The President shall have no powers at the individual level of the case. The third point to which the First Chamber attached particular importance was a difference in investigative powers in the public and private sectors. We have considered whether it is possible to make a difference in this and to find a way to make that possible, namely by using administrative powers in relation to the public sector and a more limited regime for the private sector. The obligations for the private sector are limited to providing information and providing documents. In the public sector, however, an on-the-spot investigation may take place. Any place can be entered for this purpose. There can also be arraignment with the strong arm, as it is so beautifully called, in an unceremonial way. On the advice of the Council of State, decisions of the House on intelligence competence have been qualified as decisions within the meaning of the General Administrative Law Law against which an appeal can be lodged with the Administrative Court. Change is also arranged at the request of the First Chamber. Indeed, refusal is possible for important reasons, such as state security, breach of professional secrecy or self-infringement. The fourth point, Mr President, I would like to mention five points, which were a matter for the First Chamber, is the coincidence of investigations. Therefore, the novelle explicitly includes a reference for the House to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to inspections, to supervisors and possibly to other bodies. The investigation section shall involve this in the assessment of the admissibility of an application for investigation. If there are powers of inspection, then the whistleblower will go there first. Legally, it is also stipulated that first internal reporting is required. People come to the House for whistleblowers, which will become a house with a door and a bell, where you come in and you are offered a cup of coffee or tea, after which you do your story. The House will first see if anyone is a whistleblower at all. If someone is arguing with their boss or, for example, it is a case in which things are not going well in terms of wages or working conditions or otherwise, the House will refer them to the union or the judge. The House first examines whether the case is a whistleblower case, namely a report of a failure of social interest, fraud, corruption, threats to safety, health and the environment, as defined in the law. There is a legal obligation included............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The works council is involved in this. The House can also advise on this. Legally it is stipulated that there will be cooperation protocols with at least the Public Prosecutor's Office. It would be desirable if there were also inspections and supervisors. The National Ombudsman has already offered to sign a cooperation protocol and already has advanced ideas on it. I'll get back to you on that. The fifth point is legal protection. On this point, we have expressly responded to proposals from the Upper House. She felt that there could be no absolute prohibition of dismissal. That is why there is now a general ban on harm. To claim legal protection, it is necessary that the notification is made in good faith and properly and that the disadvantage is the result of reporting the wrongdoing. In practice, this means for many whistleblowers that protection has become wider. People are not only protected when reporting to the House, but also explicitly on the initiative of the VVD in the case of a notification to an inspection or a supervisor. In this way, recommendations on the protection of whistleblowers by the Council of Europe have been met. I told you, I'm so grateful. I like the fact that Mr Schouwenaar has called for better cooperation with the Minister. I told you that cooperation went very well. I also like the fact that the VVD has contributed to better left-wing cooperation in this context. When I look at the homework the First Chamber has given us, I also see that the bill is reversed. When we started this bill in 2010 and presented the first version of it in 2012, we had a proposal in which the House would conduct almost direct research on organisations. There was a danger of that, too. If many people come forward and there are many investigations to be carried out, which are sometimes complicated, there was, of course, also the danger that the House would fall through the hoofs. In the first version of the bill, a polarised situation was very much taken as a starting point; I shall come back to that in a moment. That's turned around now. What the House is doing is basically laying down responsibilities where they belong. It starts with the reporter. First, we're gonna find out if someone's a whistleblower. The experiences of the Consulting Point Whistleblowers show that this is possible and that it is clear quite quickly whether someone reports a malfunction or has a labour dispute. In the latter case, someone goes to the union or the judge. By doing so, we place a responsibility on the whistleblower itself in case he is not a whistleblower. Subsequently, the advisors of the House will accompany someone in making an internal notification in their own organisation. In doing so, we re-establish the responsibility of the organisation: does it tackle this miscarriage and eliminate this social problem? If that is not the case, then there will be an investigation and the House can make an investigation possible. This can be done by the organization that is best suited in that case. That could be an inspection, a supervisor or the House itself. People who have a legal role to play in this process, I am thinking of inspections or supervisors who are asked to take their responsibilities first. Only if this does not work will the House be discussed, research will be carried out and recommendations will be made. In this case, responsibility will be returned to the organisation: there is now an investigation and there are now recommendations that can be followed. If that does not happen, the House for whistleblowers will carry out a follow-up investigation into why the recommendations have not been followed. It is then up to others, for example the government or the House of Representatives, to take action and take away the social imbalance. In this sense, the House has been given a different role throughout the legislative process, protecting whistleblowers, allowing for research and making recommendations to remedy a failure. Only from the polarisation have we come into a position where the House is going to help organisations to take their responsibility and eliminate social abuses. First of all, I would like to say something about the way in which we got into this polarized situation and why I think this law is much better in this form. For that I have to go back in time to 17 May 1989, when I took the Dutch final exam: part summarized. Which text were we to summarise? An article by Mr Bovens on the protection of whistleblowers. That's what you wrote at the time without any intermediates. I reread the article. Above begins with a number of appealing affairs from that time. Those affairs seem to have a number of elements in common. An organisation with a complex structure and division of powers, and not one person, is always the main player. Due to the complex structure of the organisation concerned, it is difficult for control bodies to identify any derailments in a timely and appropriate manner. When I read that again recently, I understood that this was actually the conclusion that we can now draw. We started this initiative in 2006, when I tabled a motion in the Lower House, because there was a majority to do something about the protection of whistleblowers. Mr Koffeman mentioned a number of compelling examples. When I joined the House of Representatives, I was confronted with people who were sitting in my study crying, or didn't even dare to come to the House of Representatives, because they were afraid to be recognized. There was deep fear of reporting serious abuses to the People's Assembly. At that moment, I realized that there was something wrong with our democratic system. If citizens want to do their civic duty and report serious abuses but do not dare, then something is wrong. That was why I received a great deal of support, initially from Mr Heijnen of the Labour Party, Mr Schouw van D66, Mrs Van Gent van GroenLinks, Mrs Ortega-Martijn of the Christian Union and Mrs Ouwehand of the Animal Party. We started the trajectory with them. With the ladies Voortman, Koşer Kaya and Fokke I am now here to finish the journey, and with the minister, of course. In that first period, everything related to whistleblowers was extremely polarized. Whistleblowers were heroes or traitors. Organizations were either a cover-up or were unjustly blackmailed. There wasn't much nuance. When we adopted motions, the Labour Party and the CDA tabled motions in 2007 were not carried out by the government. A major evaluation was carried out in 2008, also under the direction of Mr Bovens. He said there are a lot of arrangements for whistleblowers, but they have two things in common: they do not protect whistleblowers and there is no independent investigation possible. After a lot of cheering we decided in 2010 to make a law ourselves. That wasn't easy. We got help from the Ministry. I learned from that that a good official is worth gold. We made a law that was finished in 2012. However, the government was against, VNO-NCW was against, the FNV was against, the inspections were against and supervisors were against. Only the House of Representatives was in favour. That created a tense situation. The law came through the Lower House and ended up here. I think that the First Chamber has taken on an important responsibility by giving us homework, but above all by ensuring that the proposers and the Minister worked well together. That was possible because something had changed in those years. A number of Members have asked questions about cultural changes. I have noticed that a cultural change has taken place in those ten years. I notice that discussions about whistleblowers are different now than they were ten years ago. Whistleblowers are no longer seen as traitors and organizations no longer merely as cover-ups. Whistleblowers are also not only seen as heroes and organisations not only as a group of people who are unjustly accused. Before I pass on the contributions of all the Members, I would like to make one more comment, particularly in connection with Mr Schouwenaar's speech. In my opinion, this opposition of, for example, VNO-NCW was partly due to the polarised situation we were in. If I were an entrepreneur, I'd be very happy with this law. We are always used to looking through the eyes of the whistleblower, but look through the entrepreneur's eye hairs. Suppose in the current situation you're arguing with an employee because things aren't working out so well. It's gonna go wrong, and the employee's gonna go outside. He's spreading information in the media, half true or false. At the moment, it is difficult for the entrepreneur to defend himself against this. After all, our democracy works in such a way that a loner who fights against an organisation is often more often believed by the press, the population and the MPs. When someone reports to the House for whistleblowers, they first check whether he is a whistleblower at all. Perhaps there is a labour dispute, or there are personal problems. Then there's another way to go and you're not a whistleblower. The organisation is then confronted with an internal notification. In this way, an entrepreneur can eliminate a wrongdoing, without giving much publicity to it and without having to defend himself in the media or in court. If the entrepreneur doesn't want that or he says there's nothing going on, there's going to be an investigation. This is carried out by the competent authority and, if not, by the House for whistleblowers. Recommendations will follow and the entrepreneur will again be given the opportunity to take his social responsibility. If he does not, the entrepreneur knows that he knowingly threatens the social interest. Fraud, corruption, danger to public health, the environment and safety. At such a time, the public interest is greater and must be addressed. This is also in the interest of other entrepreneurs, even under the terms of the terms of competition. In this context, too, I believe that the fear of cold water among organisations such as VNO-NCW will be less. I hope that this organisation, like the government, will join the House. Professor Van Bijsterveld has asked many interesting questions. I didn't expect that to happen. She expresses much appreciation for the law and speaks of a "remake." That's right. Applicants and ministry have made the "remake" together, but it has also become a little bit the law of the First Chamber, given the adjustments we have made. A number of members asked about the structure of the board members and the functions. We have deliberately chosen not to lay down everything in the law. We, as Prophets, do not have the truth. We must ensure a good law, a budget, good rules, but ultimately the House must set itself up. A quarter of an hour maker is appointed for this purpose, but a scout is already on the move. The moment this Chamber says yes to this law, they can also get to work completely. Then we are also going to try to get the House up before 1 July. The chairman has an extremely important role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u24	I was just intrigued by the word "we": then we are going to try to do before 1 July... What exactly is your role when this law is in the Official Journal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u25	If this law is in the Official Journal, I am a simple representative and MP. Then I will follow the process very critically and then it will be up to the Minister to further shape the institution of the House. Then I am open to advice, then Mr Van Vollenhoven is open to advice and then the co-subscribers are open to advice. There are also the Advisory Point Whistleblowers, the expert group and the OIO. Then we are all open to advice and then responsibility lies with the Minister. The activities that have so far been carried out through the scout, I find particularly encouraging, because he ensures that the support for this process remains strong. My influence is limited. That will not apply to the chairman. That must be a powerful, appealing figure. He has to defend the House outside. He is responsible for the whole organisation, but above all he must monitor the care of the advice and investigations and the quality. In that sense, he also has a protective role. In order to ensure careful service, the president could take part in the section's opinion to see whether processes are going well. However, the President clearly has no powers at this level. That is an explicit request from this Chamber, but it is not necessary either, given the role it plays and the role it plays.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u26	I am pleased that Mr Van Raak is taking this up, but is he now saying that the President has no role at this stage in the consultation process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u27	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u28	So there's no role there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u29	No, there is no role for the chairman, other than to ensure that the advisers do their job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u30	And that's the same role he has in the investigation department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u31	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u32	I believe I have read in the reply that the proposers consider that, at the advisory stage, the two directors of the section will consult on the individual case, including the president, if necessary. This means that it does play a role in the consultation process, otherwise an individual case will not be discussed with the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u33	The president played an important role in the opinion to ensure that quality is monitored, care is guarded and everyone complies with the legal frameworks, which are not very simple. At present, the President has no role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u34	You will then have to read your own response, because you say exactly the opposite. I'd like to have unity of opinion. You really say: two directors who consult on an opinion, if necessary with the President. Thus, the chairman is also consulted at an individual level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u35	The aim is the care and quality of the chair and the monitoring role of the chairman. It is not intended to assess or look at individual cases. That won't be necessary. That doesn't fit in with the role of the advisors either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u36	I do not want to make it more difficult for Mr Van Raak than it is, but when he says that the chairman should be vigilant, does he mean that, when it comes to an individual case, the chairman should go into that individual case to see whether the fellow directors and the staff act carefully? Or should that chairman just stay out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u37	In any case, he must remain outside the individual case. That is also the wish of the Chamber. The chairman has no role in that. I do not think that this is necessary to monitor the care and quality of these advisers' actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u38	Mr De Graaf, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u39	So we could now conclude here that the authentic interpretation of the proposers and of this Chamber is that the chairman has no role in the individual consultation process, and is not therefore involved in that individual case by the other directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u40	Yeah, 'cause that's not necessary. I would also welcome it if it were further developed in the administrative regulations to be drawn up under this law and submitted to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u41	I understand Mrs Bikker had the same questions, so her interruption is no longer coming through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u42	So you see again: no matter how long a legislative process takes, there is always clarification possible. I have said a few things about the role of the President. During the advisory phase, he may participate in the discussions within the section, in particular in monitoring the care and quality of the service. In the investigation phase... that can further elaborate the administrative regulations. Will that chairman be authoritative? That is no longer up to the proposers, but to the minister and to the people who are going to do that process, but there must be an appealing President. I'm not afraid that president's work isn't enough. He has to run the organization, he has to monitor the quality. He played a role in the recommendations of both the opinion section and the research section. There is also a task for the House to ensure that organisations with more than 50 employees are provided with internal rules. There is, I think, more than enough for this lady or gentleman to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u43	The applicant has made it clear that the Chair will not be involved in any individual case during the advisory phase. The response left room for that, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u45	So I would like to hear exactly how he sees this in the research phase. I assume he'll rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u46	That's right. I must say, however, that there is still a difference when the reporter has to state in writing whether information from the opinion department can go to the investigation department. That is a procedure which has been tightened up by the House of Representatives per amendment. In that case too, however, it is not necessary for the President to interfere with the investigation at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u47	Well, that's clear. At the same time, you can imagine that such a case leads to a report that produces the necessary commotion, and that the figurehead of the House for whistleblowers will decide on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u49	I suppose that's within the job assignment, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u50	Yeah, that's not about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u51	... but that under no pretext has he interfered with the content before that time. So we're clear on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u52	Mrs. Bikker has it all clear. That's right. If the House is under attack, you can never rule that out. There is an important task for the President. Then it wouldn't be good if the investigator had to defend himself. The President shall represent the House and shall then speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u53	I have a question about the recommendations, i.e. the recommendations by opinion, which we talked about, and possibly the recommendation in the investigation and the role of the President in them. The President may therefore take part in the drafting of recommendations, but these may only be general in scope and do not relate to a specific matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u54	It indicates which elements should be part of the investigation. The recommendations will be part of that study. This has to do with an individual case and that is a matter for the researchers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u55	But not from the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u56	However, at a time when the recommendations are not being followed up. The President will then be presented, as there may be a follow-up study on the extent to which the recommendations have been followed, or, for example, a treatment study. In this case, the President can play a role, especially when it comes to the follow-up of the recommendations. But then we are beyond the level of the individual case. Then it's about the final report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u57	The President may therefore never be involved in the preparation of recommendations, opinions or investigations in an individual case because he has never been able to take note of that case at case level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u58	Yes, we want to keep the President's role pure, even at your request. It would, of course, be strange for a president to interfere with an opinion first and then interfere with an investigation. He'll get too many hats. At the moment when recommendations need to be implemented, the President clearly has a role to play. Such matters will be discussed here, but will eventually be laid down in an administrative regulation, in which the minister plays a role, and in an advisory protocol and a research protocol. Then we are actually already in the stage of furnishing the House. We have expressly not chosen to regulate the precise layout of the House by law. I will come back to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question as to why, for example, those cooperation protocols were not covered by the law. We can't "close" everything. I have to take a liberal position here in the legislative field. We must create the conditions. The interior of the House is really something for specialists. I am not, Mrs Fokke is not, Mrs Koşer Kaya is not, in short: we are not. Those are others. They started this work under the direction of the Minister. We have a lot of faith in them. We're moving a long way. People ask about the building. "Is there really going to be a house?" Yeah, there's really gonna be a house with a bell, a door and a cup of coffee or tea where you can go as a whistleblower. The separation of advice and research is also carried out in that building. The builders have to decide exactly how. I imagine that the research department and the advisory department have the same front door, that they operate in the same building.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u59	Where does the law say there's gonna be a building with a door and a bell and so on? Does the law say there's one building?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u60	There is an almost creative provision in the law, very nice: there is a House for whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u61	And you believe that the concept of house in the law means a building of brick?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u62	That is what we have been trying to do, yes, like the House of Democracy, the House of Representatives and the Senate. Those are rooms, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u63	So they are not functions and functional names, but physical names?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u64	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u65	I say that because I think you may have the responsibility of the legislator, as we stand here, a little "overruled." Perhaps in the execution there is not necessarily a single building. Two floors of two different buildings may be used. I'd find it weird if we literally boarded that house here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u66	Mr De Graaf is, of course, quite right. On the one hand, I am asked a great many questions about the establishment of that House, which, as I have just said, I want to stay away from. It's true that I have to resist the temptation to further elaborate on it. By the way, I expect a house to come. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked this question. Here's what I'm expecting. If it's not, it's okay. It's not my responsibility in the end. Let me put it this way. A further question has been asked about implementation, namely whether there will be sufficient expertise in that House. Mr De Graaf must correct me if I go too far again. That seems to me to be a good division of roles. As Mr Van Vollenhoven knows, the OVV is a very large institution with a very large budget. The House for whistleblowers will be smaller. That is why I am very happy, if only because the House is going to refer, so research can invest elsewhere, but can also take responsibility. Without wanting to get in the way of quarter-minute makers who are or are not in a house, I can imagine that expertise in the form of a flexible shell will be attracted. There's no other way. Researchers must take responsibility in the House. Investigations must always be conducted under the direction of the House. The House doesn't have to do all these investigations on its own. That won't be necessary at all. Many organisations in the Netherlands, such as inspections, supervisors and professors, can do better. I think it is very important that the investigation be conducted where it can best be done. I can imagine a network or a shell being built up. That's how it works, but I'd like to leave it to the quartermasters unless Mrs Van Bijsterveld makes that really impossible for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u67	My job is to make it possible, above all, and then as much as possible. You are indeed talking about the flexible shell. The explanatory documents show that the main focus is on administrative expertise. However, if I have seen it correctly, it also states that there is the possibility of working with specialist committees in which additional board members can function. Do you really mean additional board members? How does that relate to the maximum number of board members of the House? You haven't been so generous in naming the number of board members, for understandable reasons, of course. If you have external committees in specific, specialist areas with additional board members, it's gonna wring. It seems to me that the number laid down by law should not be exceeded. I'd like to hear what your vision is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u68	We have a chairman and a maximum of four board members. That's all it's gonna be, because that's what the law says. And now let me really stay on my own property and not cross the line anymore. How many board members the House starts is on the quartermaster. The House is going to decorate itself. I can now imagine that one or a number of board members will be appointed for the advisory section and one or some for the investigation department. You can't rule out the possibility that specialization will take place in the future. Such a process can take place within the House, even though I do not know how. That's all up to the House itself. At the time of the presentation of the administrative regulations, and certainly of the advisory protocol and the research protocol, there will be more clarity about this. We initiators are, of course, in the extremely difficult situation of having to defend a law here without being supposed to interfere too much with the organisation of the House. And of course, the establishment of the House can only take place once the First Chamber has passed the law. Only then can truly irreversible steps be taken. I don't think we should end up in that loop. That is why I answer that there is a great deal to be done in my view and that there is an important responsibility for the quartermaster. In the future, it is possible, if necessary, to specialize board members, for example when it comes to research in the private and public sectors. This saying, I'm not going over the line. I can imagine that in the future there will be board members looking more at one thing than at the other. Maybe that's not the case either. Maybe I don't know enough and that's not gonna happen. Mrs. Van Bijsterveld had many interesting questions. It also asked for a clear distinction to be made between advice and research. The House of Representatives has wholeheartedly agreed to this. Each group supported the bill with this novelle. On the initiative of the SGP, the VVD and the CDA, the House of Representatives stated that the opinion department should transmit the name of the reporter to the research department in writing. The same applies to information. That should be recorded in writing. A reporter must therefore be fully aware of the fact that another step is being taken. He'll have to sign for that, too. What happens, Mrs. Van Bijsterveld asks, if he doesn't sign? It's very simple. It could be the name or the information. That could mean he's not signing for the name and not for the information. It may also be that he signs for the information. Then the information from the section opinion goes to the research department. Others have asked if the House can investigate on its own initiative. That is not possible if it reads in the newspaper that something is a disgrace or that the House of Representatives finds something. The House's research department can only do research if the reporter is not too afraid or too anxious to submit a request for investigation. He must then give the opinion section explicit permission to pass on information to the research department. Only then can that information be transferred to the investigation department. If there is a pattern and there are a number of reports about this, we cannot rule out the possibility, because of the public interest, of the House itself having an investigation or investigation done. The House is ultimately primarily intended to prevent serious abuses such as fraud, corruption and danger to safety, public health and the environment. So if the researchers have been given concrete information, with a signature on it, it must be possible, even if a whistleblower is too scared. Moreover, I think that this is mainly a theoretical discussion. I expect that reporters will often sign and be prepared to pass their names on to the research department much earlier, because I hope that this House will also lead to fewer whistleblowers being attacked. Cooperation protocols can never set aside legal frameworks. The house could sign a lot of cooperation protocols. It has to be with the state's attorney's office. The Minister of Security and Justice has to look into that. You can do that with inspections and supervisors. The National Ombudsman has already indicated that he is happy to do so and that he has all kinds of plans in place. But whatever research protocol comes up, it can never set aside the law. This also applies, for example, to the obligation to report. There too, legal frameworks can never be set aside. They will always have to be respected. Members and staff of the House do not have to report criminal offences and do not report them. If civil servants do have that duty, it will remain so. The House can therefore play a role in this. The College of Attorneys General sent a letter on 26 August 2013. I thought that was a clear letter. From this, we can be confident that the D.A. will not request information during the consultation questions. It's, I think, the D.A.'s explicit intention not to do that. That will become part of those cooperation protocols, I think. It will therefore also be necessary to agree with the Public Prosecutor on the obligation to report and on the information which is or is not transmitted. These are matters that we must leave to the professionals. These are matters that we must name and discuss, but should not be laid down in the law. I think that neither the state's attorneys, nor the House, nor anyone else is enjoying it very much. The same goes for what I said about obtaining information. I did say that people, even during the investigation by the House, do not have to provide information that they or the House can reasonably suspect could be used against them in criminal proceedings. They don't have to incriminate themselves. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked when the House would investigate. Others have also asked for this. Will the House assess whether investigations of the inspection or the supervisor are good enough? Is there gonna be surveillance? That is clearly not the case. All these tests are really different. The D.A.'s doing a criminal investigation. The House expressly does not do that. The House is expressly never going to investigate criminal offences or the question of whether or not someone is right. The House is investigating a miscarriage. Inspections and supervisors are all doing research. In particular, they investigate whether laws and rules are being infringed. They can issue fines or close a company. I can imagine that such an investigation can in many cases bring out sufficient information about a failure. But maybe not. My next comment is perhaps a little more political. There's been a lot of cuts in inspections. Some inspections will be better able to conduct investigations than others. Some inspections must be confined to paper research in particular. I don't know how that's gonna work out in the future, and that's another discussion. In any event, the House will consider whether an investigation by an inspection, for example, has led to an adequate understanding of the social situation and how it can be resolved. It is therefore not intended to re-examine or say that the inspection is not appropriate. The inspection investigation is always a different investigation. It's an inspection investigation. That's a different kind of investigation than investigating a miscarriage. The idea is that the House will see in what specific cases an investigation by, for example, an inspection can be used to look at what is wrong and how it can be solved. Next, it is not up to the House to assess whether the inspection is proper or not. Nor does it have any say as to whether it is methodologically and technically correct. The House must see if it can move forward. Is the research sufficient to gain insight into a social defect? Can we make recommendations to resolve the situation? If that is the case, the House will be delighted. If that is not the case, there is always a possibility for additional research. That is the task of the House, and it is different from the task of an inspection. Once again, the House will not issue fines, nor will it say that a particular gentleman or lady is not right or should be brought to justice. The purpose of the House is to investigate a failure and ask how we can resolve it. Of course, there can always be an examination of the environment. This also really belongs to the House for whistleblowers and not to an inspection, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u69	Your statement is clear. Yet I sense a difference from the legal text. The legal text states that the criterion is that a failure or a suspicion of a failure is "appropriately" investigated. You keep talking about "solved." That's a much heavier demand. It may also be that a failure is not so easy to solve. It may also be that the lack of a solution is not in the research, but in the recommendations or in something else. There is a difference between what you say and what is in the response to the First Chamber, and what is in the legal text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u70	We have seen this amendment well. The "appropriate" has been put in on the initiative of the VVD. That "appropriate" is clearly not intended for the House to look at whether the investigations of the inspection are proper. Then I'd come into conflict with the First Chamber. The House should not play a supervisory role in relation to inspections. That can never be the intention and is not the intention of the law. The intention is that a failure has been properly investigated. Appropriate may then be completed as follows: There is an understanding of the situation and recommendations can be made to remedy this. That is the task of the House, not to judge whether the inspections in the Netherlands are proper, because that is the task of First and Second Members of Parliament. I hope that this answer is clear, otherwise I am always prepared to go into that further. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has asked so many interesting and good questions that I also answer many questions from other Members of Parliament, including Mrs Bikker. It is legally stipulated that organisations with more than 50 employees should have internal rules. This is supported by various opinions from the Labour Foundation, especially in the private sector. What about organisations with fewer than 50 employees? Mrs Van Bijsterveld and Mrs Bikker asked that question. They can do that, too. They can also make arrangements for whistleblowers. In fact, that is highly recommended. Many organisations with 49 employees are allowed to do the same. They can follow the recommendations that the House will make. The House will also help organisations to do so. It's not illegal. It is only not required by law, because we have joined the Works Councils Act. That's a choice. Anyone can just do it. However, if there is no internal regulation, people can go to the House. There they get a cup of coffee or tea and they can do their story. If it turns out that someone is a real whistleblower and reports serious wrongdoing, there will also be a referencing function here. Then the advisors will first examine whether there is a confidence figure, an internal scheme or any other scheme to inform the reporter of his rights or of employment protection. If the employer does not, the House gives that advice, but still the House will first advise to report internally. If there are no arrangements, it'll just be with the boss. If that is not possible, the House will advise not to do so. Then I'm gonna come up with abuse of fire protection. There was an absolute restraining order. There is now a provision on forms of disadvantage, such as dismissal. We, as proposers, can live very well with that. That proposal on a general ban on abuse of the First Chamber was very pleasant, because it applies before, during and after the investigation. This is exactly what whistleblowers need, I think. I told you, if anyone comes to the House for whistleblowers, rings and gets a cup of coffee or tea, they'll first see if someone's a whistleblower and really reports a miscarriage, with a social interest. Like I said, if anyone's arguing with the boss, he or she can go to the union or to the judge. But if there really is a social defect, as defined, employment protection can be used. Then abuse is actually not possible, because the House is going to decide whether someone is reporting a social failure. Someone might think they're lurking at their boss by saying he's a whistleblower. In the current situation, you cannot rule out serious damage to a government organisation, a semi-public organisation or a company, if people seek the media or go to court, but it will not be possible to do so. The first check that is done is also very important for organisations. Is anyone a whistleblower? That makes the danger of abuse very small. Then I come to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's last point. What are we gonna do with that advice point and the OIO? I want to have a very positive story about that, but first a negative story. When we started in 2010 with the initiative legislative proposal, which was completed in 2012, pastors of this minister took the initiative of a consultative point and a research institute. With these institutions, we can't protect whistleblowers and do independent research. We sometimes had the idea that these initiatives were taken to make this initiative more difficult. I notice that the Ministry has very quickly turned its button, partly by this Minister. The advice point has become a temporary provision. The Minister indicated in the documents that the consultative point expires on 1 July. As we always put it so beautifully: the knowledge and skill of the advice point, the OIO and the Expert Group Whistleblowers and others will be included in the interior design of the House. They also asked about the BIOS. That has a much broader function. I'd say cooperation is fantastic. Whether the BIOS will go into the House in some form or another, I leave it to the BIOS, to the Minister and to the House. We have no objection to that, if that is possible. Mr Schouwenaar and others have given a good overview of all the articles of law that have been amended. He is right to say that the advice point is doing a good job. That's right. I started out very negative, saying that the advice point and the OIO were created a little bit to make it harder for us, but in reality they made it much easier for us. The OIO and above all the advice point have done a great deal of good work, Mr Schouwenaar is absolutely right. They have shown what is possible. To name but one thing, we had initially included six months in the bill to see if anyone is a whistleblower. The experiences of the advice point show that this is much easier and that this is actually going quite well. We have some insight, through three years of experience at the advice point, so that we know how many people will report, how often that leads to advice or referral and how often that could lead to an investigation. Through the experiences with the OIO and the Expert Group Whistleblowers we have some idea and I am very happy with that. The fact remains that these facilities cannot yet protect whistleblowers. They can't do independent research properly. They have no legal basis. I shall come straight back to that when I come to the question of what the added value of this House is. I am also extremely pleased that the Minister has been prepared to bring forward the evaluation of these organisations. That evaluation has also shown that this law is needed. Again, it would be very foolish for us to say that the knowledge and skills of these organisations should not be taken away from the advice point, the OIO and the Expert Group on Whistleblowers. I think the quartermaster will use that with a great deal of gratitude. Mr Schouwenaar asked whether the consultative point should not be given legal assistance. The advice point is not a lawyer. That would also put the whistleblower or the detector in a very difficult position vis-à-vis the advice point. Of course, he will receive advice, even if legal procedures are needed for some reason, but this is not a process representation. That is for a lawyer or possibly also for funded legal aid. We are not going to interfere in the interior of the House, but sometimes I cannot help it. The quartermaster can care what he wants. I think the experience of the Expert Group Whistleblowers is very important when it comes to the social and psychological guidance of people. There's a big added value there. I notice there's a lot of attention to it at the advice point. That's why I dare to say that. People ring the bell, come in, get a cup of tea or coffee and tell their stories. Then there must be good guidance from whistleblowers. That is why I welcome the homework of the Eerste Kamer to separate advice and research, because advisors are a different kind of people than researchers. Those advisors must be people who understand what a whistleblower is and how it can be guided. If someone isn't a whistleblower, but still has big problems, you don't just send them out. Mr Schouwenaar asked questions about anonymity. This is a very important point for us. For the First Chamber, too, it was an important point that information should not lie on the streets. The House must be able to advise in confidence and above all ensure that research is possible in confidence. It is therefore important that the report be made public, but that no company names or information sensitive to competition be given. All that doesn't have to be in there, if you don't have to. There's as much anonymity as possible. There can be no wobding. That's important to make sure everyone can tell us everything. If we want to know whether there is an error, how big it is and how it can be resolved, then we must be able to let everyone speak. Then a reporter, an entrepreneur, a responsible or a manager should not have to be afraid to say certain things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u71	That all sounds very plausible and I agree with what Mr Van Raak says. Does this disclosure of the report also mean that the content of the report, as expressed by the researchers, can be used in legal proceedings, for example in criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u72	First of all, it is a completely different investigation. A criminal investigation is really a completely different kind of investigation than an investigation by the House, under the responsibility of the House or under the guidance of the House for a social failure. That's another kind of truth finding. That's totally different. Little information will be useful for a criminal trial. However, because we want to respect all existing laws, we cannot rule out the possibility that the Public Prosecutor will at some point see if information can be requested from the House. In practice, this will be limited. In order to prevent this from damaging the House's investigation, agreements on this will have to be made in the cooperation protocol with the Public Prosecutor. The Attorney General has also indicated that this is necessary and possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u73	It is good that Mr Van Raak makes it clear that it is quite different from criminal law. I suspected that, but that was not at the heart of my question. My question was whether the content of the report could also be used in legal proceedings, for example by the Public Prosecutor in criminal proceedings. I understand the answer to that is yes. That raises the question or has it been considered to rule that out? Is that not excluded from other research institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u74	I believe that the principle of non-infringement has been incorporated into the law of the Security Research Council. It wasn't done here because we didn't think it was necessary. People do not need to give information that would violate that principle. They do not need to provide information that is detrimental to them in a criminal investigation. That's how it's incorporated into the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u75	But that's the problem. Here's a tension between the different interests. It may be in the interest of the whistleblower or the House for whistleblowers to cooperate in identifying the nature and extent of the malfunction. At the same time, no one has to cooperate with their own potential conviction. You could overcome that by saying: cooperate mainly with the investigation; what you explain here and what may or may not be anonymized in the research report, can in any case not be used against you in law. Then you'd have solved it. That is why I ask the question again: why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u76	The final report is anonymized. I believe that there is very little in it that could be useful. We have not considered this to be proportionate, because people do not have to give this kind of information. I would also like to stress that the nature of the studies is so totally different that they will not occur in practice. What is important, as Mr De Graaf also says, is that there is a potential tension in this between the D.A., which is responsible for criminal investigations, and the House for whistleblowers, which is responsible for investigating wrongdoing. Given the information we have received from the College of Attorney General, it seems best to resolve that in the cooperation protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u77	I regret, however, that there is no clarity in this. The Research Council for Security has deliberately chosen to lay this down in the law. Well, that makes sense, too. What is being put into the cooperation protocol is still waiting. Besides, a whistleblower can incriminate himself without knowing that. There are also those possibilities. Then this proposal will not provide protection. I regret that. I would like to hear the consideration of why a different framework has been chosen. I would also like to be given a commitment that the evaluation will look at whether it would not be wise to draw a line on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u78	I think that would be wise. This has been chosen from the point of view of proportionality. We do not expect this to be a fundamental problem. But that's what we expect. The question is whether it will be. But the College of Attorney General doesn't expect any major problems either. We even wanted to include a legal provision. We have also done this in the previous version: by not allowing investigations by the House at the time when the judge makes a judgment or something under the courts or in investigation. The College of Attorneys has said that these are such totally different investigations, that this need not be excluded. Even if there is a criminal investigation going on, in a specific case, it is also possible to investigate the situation. That doesn't have to be mutually exclusive. It could start sanding. That's what Mr De Graaf says. If it's gonna sand, it's gonna sand in practice. We're gonna learn that practice now. That's why we said get it done! And that's why the co-operation protocol with the state's attorney's office is laid down in law. We have to do that within six months, and that goes through the Minister of Security and Justice. If there are problems there, they will of course become part of the evaluation. But you don't have to wait, because if that really leads to problems in practice, which I don't expect and which the College of Attorney General doesn't expect, the investigation protocol can be adapted or a General Measure of Management can be taken. But it will, of course, be part of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u79	I have one more question on this point. Can the prosecution, under the law in force, request the underlying information and not just the report, even after the law has been established? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u80	Yes, but only the anonymized report will be made public. There is nothing in there that is not necessary, especially when it comes to privacy and the like. All the information underneath is confidential. However, since we do not amend the laws and regulations in force, there is a possibility for the public prosecutor to request information. However, this does not mean that this information must always be given. It is very important that a research protocol lays down the cases in which it is possible and in which cases it is not. On the basis of that research protocol, the advisors, who also remain advisors to a reporter during the investigation, will accompany the reporter in doing so. A balance will therefore have to be made between ensuring that a criminal case can be investigated as closely as possible by the prosecution and preventing an investigation into a miscarriage from being made more difficult because people are afraid that information can be used against them later. That's a balance. We can't legally fix that. In any case, we have not chosen to prohibit it, as this could potentially prejudice criminal investigations. The College of Attorneys General is convinced that this can be resolved by means of a research protocol. That is why we have chosen to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u81	Perhaps it would be preferable, in the long term, to lay this down by law, because otherwise you will never be able to offer that guarantee to a reporter when it comes to it. Some things may be laid down in a protocol, but I can imagine that, if it's really important, the D.A. wants that information anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u82	That is true, but that also has to do with what is laid down in that protocol. The Minister for Security and Justice has another opinion on this. We're gonna see that, too. If that does not give us confidence, then we can still have an opinion as auditors. I'd say let it happen! They are professionals, both at the Public Prosecutor's Office and later at the House, who understand very well what their job is. We have not chosen to regulate this legally, because we are afraid that this may unduly complicate criminal investigations, which is not necessary. If that proves necessary, the law will certainly be amended. But we're gonna try, and first we're gonna rely on people's professionalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u83	I have two more questions. We have always talked about criminal law, but does Mr Van Raak also consider it possible, through civil law, to make use of the research data known to the House? That is the first question. The second question goes back. Mr Van Raak just said 'I'm just saying it in my own words, because I quote Mr Van Raak otherwise perhaps wrongly 'that it is made as little public as possible'. He claims to have taken advantage of the possibility offered by Article 2 of the WOB, because people want to encourage everyone as much as possible to speak freely. I think I have understood the law in such a way that it is not about freedom, but that the employer and employee are obliged to provide all the information requested, in writing and in words. So it's not a question of volunteering at all. I don't think there's much to stimulate either. That obligation is imposed by law, except for that clearly defined group of people who can invoke his right to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u84	The latter is not insignificant, by the way. That's partly because of you being incorporated into the law. That right to be changed is very important. Anyone else can go to court and ask for everything. However, the law is so arranged that information at the disposal of the House is safe and cannot be requested. The law is thus such that such a request will not be very promising.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u85	I have one more question. I understand the line you chose. The cooperation protocol should make good arrangements in this respect. Even so, the prosecution can exert great pressure, because it has a very great interest in certain information in order to be able to successfully conduct its criminal investigation. In doing so, the House may consider that the protection of the whistleblower prevails. Can you imagine such situations? Can we then assume that the importance of the whistleblower will ultimately be decisive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u86	That has to do with a number of things, including the cooperation between the D.A. and the House. There may be pressure. Sometimes that's right, because it's a criminal case. If people cooperate, we promise them that they will participate in a truth investigation into a miscarriage and not a criminal investigation. That's a different kind of investigation. The research protocol must make firm agreements on this, so that the public prosecutor cannot say that it is very important in a particular case. The information we have received from the Attorney General, such as the letter I just mentioned on 26 August 2013, at least gives us the confidence that this can be done. So that research protocol is gonna be good. I think we're all gonna see that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u87	You're saying we're all gonna see it. Then what are you referring to? Who can still influence the research protocol? Can the proposers do that? Is it coming to the House of Representatives? Or is it an execution case, so of the House, the D.A. and perhaps the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u88	In this case, that is the Minister of Security and Justice. In our role as inspectors, we will, of course, look over his shoulder. So we're all still there. At least for the time being, let us start from the good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u89	Mr. Van Raak, you're getting a lot of interruptions. That's wonderful, because it's important. Do you have any idea how much longer you need? Then I can get a little insight into the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u90	When I have finished with Mr Schouwenaar's questions, it can be done quickly. I've said a lot about secrecy and disclosure. I would like to say one more thing about that. I can only understand Mr Schouwenaar's comment about everything because of the fear that organisations will not be able to defend themselves and the need for them to be able to do so. I understand that fear. I made comments on this in my introduction. I am convinced that this law protects not only whistleblowers but also organisations much better. Organisations do not have to fight in the media or in court. They can do their story and have many opportunities to solve abuses. Moreover, that information remains safe and anonymous. I therefore believe that this law offers much better protection to organisations. The disclosure of information will make whistleblower cases subject to public debate again, and that is not serviceable, especially for organisations. I'm gonna jump ahead and try to do it a little bit shorter. I hope this is possible. Mrs Barth sketched the turbulent history of the bill. Thanks for the compliments. She asked about the added value of the House. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan zeggen dat die meerwaarde bijna dagelijks wordt bewezen.]] Whistleblowers aren't doing well. It's not going well with reporting social abuses. People are still scared. Whistleblowers are afraid; organizations are afraid. We have made a legal arrangement. The 2008 major evaluation also showed that this was necessary. We had to go legal. There's gonna be protection from harm. There is no such thing now, in any way. There's going to be an independent investigation. It will also be possible to conduct an investigation into treatment. None of that's there right now. The House can also point out to others their responsibility and, in that sense, monitor the process. It plays an important role in the internal arrangements. Above all, the House will be a clear point where whistleblowers can go. That is also very important. There is a House, but there are not many arrangements. Indeed, the 2008 evaluation showed that there are a huge number of schemes. That's what you see elsewhere. People who want to report a disturbance sometimes don't see the forest because of the trees. There's gonna be something unambiguous. This will perhaps make the consultative point, the Integrity Research Council, and so on unnecessary. I would also like to say that this is unique in the world. There is no such institution anywhere in the world. Whistleblowers are not about people who have a labour dispute, but about a public interest. There are also many international regulations. For example, we sometimes look at the United States. There are arrangements that are very supportive of the whistleblower. For example, if you win a case in court, you get a percentage of the fine and you can become a millionaire. It's very nice when people become millionaires, but that's for few. Most whistleblowers never get this far and never win a lawsuit, even for lack of money. Moreover, if the whistleblower wins, the social failure will not be solved in any way. It can just survive. We have seen many times in our country that, thanks to pressure from outside, thanks to the media and due to lawsuits, a miscarriage was dealt with, but that the whistleblower was then made impossible to live. These things are really gonna change. The most important thing is perhaps the process guidance. The House is going to lay down responsibilities where they belong and allow people to take away abuses. If that does not happen, the House will ensure that it does. We don't have any right now. We have a lot of arrangements, we have a lot of organisations, we have a lot of trust, but we have no protection from whistleblowers and no independent investigation into abuses. That's the difference. We will have much less, namely one House, but also much more, namely what we need. What happens if the inspection does an investigation and there appears to be no wrongdoing? I'd love to. Then I hope that a detector within an organization can move on. There is also a role for the section's opinion. There's no need for the House to re-examine. I told you before that an inspection investigation is something other than an investigation into a social disorder. If an inspection is sufficient, it is sufficient. If the House considers that further investigation is necessary in order to have a good understanding of the situation and to be able to make recommendations, the House may decide to do so. However, the House will never become the supervisory supervisor. The House will never say: you have not done your job as a supervisor or inspection properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u91	I am glad to hear that, but Mr Van Raak's answer goes a little past my point. My question was about someone who has been to an inspection to make a complaint about a situation that cannot be. What happens if that inspection comes to the conclusion that there's nothing going on and the reporter doesn't settle for it? Not all detectors are of good will. Not all detectors are willing to look constructive. Sometimes people dig all the way in. I am pleased that Mr Van Raak indicates that the House will not become a supervisory supervisor. We are a little afraid that the House will find itself in a situation where investigations are being duplicated and that research is being stacked up, because someone in the first round will not be able to accept that what he or she sees as an error on further understanding does not appear to be an error.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u92	What are you doing with whistle-blowers who aren't whistle-blowers? That is an incredibly important point. I believe that the House is going to make a substantial difference in this regard too. It's the beginning. We'll ring the bell. The door opens, cup of coffee, cup of tea, and then they see if anyone is a whistleblower at all. The experience of the Advisory Point shows that this is not the case in many cases. People fight with the boss or people have mental problems. I hope that in future the advisory section will be in real trouble as people are, socially, psychologically, also in that respect, or that organisations that specialise in it will work with the House in such a way that people can get there. If research has been done and there is no wrongdoing, then we are happy. Then it's okay. This is good for everyone, good for society, good for the organisation and good for the whistleblower. But what are you going to do with that person in the organization? The opinion section also plays a major role in this. We will have to see if organisations are able to give such a person a place after all. This is also important in the evaluation. If someone simply doesn't accept the outcome, it's not a theoretical issue, because there's no wrongdoing, then he or she isn't a whistleblower either. In fact, it may very well be that the House states that there is a social error, that the person is whistleblower, but that research shows that there is nothing going on. Then, by the way, the person is still a whistleblower, but there is no wrongdoing that needs to be solved. We must all be very happy with that, but we must then see how the gentleman or the lady can move on with her life and hopefully also in the organisation. That's up to the House. Mrs Barth also asked for a deeper explanation of whistleblowers. What kind of people are they? I've had quite a lot of experience with it. We all have a lot of experience behind this table. The same applies to Mr Van Vollenhoven and also to the Minister. We've had a lot of experience with it. At least whistleblowers aren't people who want something for themselves. They're not people pursuing their own interests. Mr Koffeman also noticed. They're doing it for the good of the public. They are people who can't stand injustice, not because they have an opinion of their own, but because they see that the organisation they work for, which they have given their heart to, doesn't abide by their own rules and agreements. Then it's gonna go wrong. These people have an enormous sense of justice, in such a way that they cannot accept it. In fact, even now there are whistleblowers, while those people are terrified. Then the sense of justice wins over fear. They're top burgers. They're very good people. These are people who are moving our society and our organisations forward. That is also very important for the House. I will deal with cultural change later, but we really need to learn to deal better with these people, because it is not decent to deal with decent people and because it is good for the learning capacity of organisations and good for society. A major problem is that we are dealing with a ban on harm, especially for workers. That ban on harm goes furthest when you get a steady job. I am speaking on behalf of myself and perhaps not on behalf of all the petitioners, but I am giving everyone a steady job. Not here in the First Chamber, I hear the Minister muttering. From his constitutional responsibility, he is absolutely right, but we have a lot ofzzp'ers, trainees and volunteers. They can all go to the House for whistleblowers. In fact, anyone can go to the House for whistleblowers, but a ban on harm would be different forzzp'ers and trainees, especially for volunteers. But there will be a general ban for everyone. That's a big profit. That is also what the Council of Europe recommends. We are going to do that, but we are not going to change this law in terms of employment. Then it is a completely different law that we, as proposers, do not all agree on. Mrs Koşer Kaya feels very differently than I do. So we're not gonna do that. That doesn't fit either. We'll check with the evaluation to see if the ban on harm is working. But it is true: someone in permanent service will be stronger than azzp'er, because the effect of the ban on harm will then be more limited. But if there is little to disadvantage, the consequences will also be more limited. That goes for azzp'er, because for him the possible disadvantage is smaller than for someone on permanent duty. I personally do not agree with that, but we are not going to regulate that in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u93	Here too, Mr Van Raak is not exactly enough. The reply shall state that the applicants do not wish to prolong unnecessarily the concept of 'worker'. I understand that, but why wasn't it chosen not to mention "workers" in the bill but whistleblowers? I didn't ask about the deeper meaning of what a whistleblower is. What if someone volunteered in an organization? With the best will in the world, you can't turn that into an employee. Then perhaps someone like that can come to the House, but if the ban on harm is formulated, as Mr Van Raak is doing now, which is related to an employee, then I do not see how a volunteer legally falls within the scope of the ban on harm. That's not an employee. I would like to hear this more precisely from Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u94	Thank you. The law states that an employee is the person who, under contract of employment under civil law or under public law, has carried out or has performed employment which is also important to him or the person who, other than in employment, has performed or has performed work, i.e. anyone who has performed work. I agree with Mrs Barth that, when it comes to a volunteer, the functioning of the ban on harm will be limited. That's right, but otherwise, a volunteer will just be able to make a call. Then everything that applies to everyone. It is then up to the court to consider how, in an individual case, he assesses the extent to which a volunteer is disadvantaged as a result of the notification. I do not see how we could regulate this in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u95	Why was the bill not chosen when it comes to the protection to be given to someone, to talk about a whistleblower, a term which is then defined more precisely, but about an employee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u96	Because the disadvantage comes from the employeeship, as it has now been formulated. This goes wider than a public appointment. A person is employed or has been employed, even if he is not employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u97	I want to be clear. Anyone who is a volunteer in an organisation and cannot stay there because he or she raises a problem can also be disadvantaged, albeit not financially, because he or she is a volunteer, but if that volunteering is someone's lust and life and he or she loses it, then that is indeed very profound. I'm trying to understand why the proposers in the law didn't choose if they wanted a House for whistleblowers to protect whistleblowers? Why do they only speak of "workers" in the bill? As a result, a category of people is excluded in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u98	"Whistleblower" is a very broad term, as indicated in Article 1.2. That is why we have implemented this ban. We did that first for employees, assuming that this concerned permanent employees. But thanks to comments from the Second and First Chambers, we have made this much wider, namely any disadvantage at an organisation for the performance of work. So that can also be work by a volunteer. If a volunteer is harmed by a notification of a defect, he or she shall also be subject to the prohibition of harm. Mrs Barth must understand that this is different from a permanent employee, for example. If someone works voluntarily, without getting compensation for it, the disadvantage can never relate to the wage, because that person does not get it. In that case, that person cannot be disadvantaged in terms of pay. However, it does apply to a volunteer. It applies to everyone and that is why the term "worker" is defined as follows: anyone who has gained knowledge of a defect through work within the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u99	I'm gonna try again. Under the wording used by Mr Van Raak for the concept of "worker" and by the wording of Article 1 (h), he now also means thezzp'er who is awarded a contract and the volunteer who works at an institution without earning any benefits and who can therefore stop doing so at any time. In these cases, the term "worker" applies. To the extent that a benefit protection applies, it also applies to those two categories, although the protection of disadvantage is, by definition, different from that of a permanent worker. Is that a good explanation? That would mean that you might as well have written "whistleblower," but then Mrs Barth's problems would have been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u100	I think we're gonna get a long way with that. The concept of "worker" is, of course, much broader than in its legal sense. But let's say the neighbor wants to report a miscarriage. Then there are very different things. Then it seems to me that there is almost no question of disadvantage, because it is the neighbour or neighbor. The point here is that someone is disadvantaged by a relationship in an organisation. So that can also be done as a volunteer. In the case of a volunteer, that disadvantage can never be out of employment. I know the employee concept has become diffuse, but there's nothing I can do about it. I'm sorry. I told you, as far as I'm concerned, everyone has a permanent employment. I do not know what Mr De Graaf thinks about this... but as long as someone is working within an organisation, engaged in activities within an organisation and has knowledge of a miscarriage, there is a ban on harm. And yes, by his nature that will not be different by category.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u101	I suggest you keep your neighbor and neighbor out of it for a while, otherwise it'll get very complicated. This law is, of course, about the possibility to raise wrongdoings, but in a relationship with an organization with which someone is connected. That neighbour does not need whistleblower protection, because it is not linked to that organisation and therefore does not run the risk of being sanctioned by the top of that organisation because of his whistles. That is true for the volunteer who may give his or her whole soul and salvation into that organization. It also applies to thezzp'er who is dependent on his income and the employee. So I would say, let us limit it to those groups. There are also journalists who reveal wrongdoings, but they are not subject to the functioning of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u102	No, I didn't. Mr De Graaf is quite right. Even if you work as a volunteer within an organisation and are disadvantaged as a result of reporting a failure, there is a ban on harm. In that sense, it is well resolved. The chairman wants me to hurry. So I'm going to answer the other members very quickly. Mr De Graaf was right to say that it took us a very long time. I have already thanked Mr Heijnen and Mr Schouw, Mrs Van Gent, Mrs Ortega-Martijn and Mrs Ouwehand. Mr De Graaf specifically asked about the general investigation. I tried to give an example of it. Thanks to an amendment by VVD, SGP and CDA, what I am very much defending here is that reporters really need to sign if their name or information within the House of the Section goes to the research department. However, you can theoretically, or perhaps not theoretically, come into a situation where someone says: "I would very much like to get that information to the research department, because something is really going on here, but I am terrified, terrified. I don't have the guts. I'm not dinging." I hope that this will all be reduced over time, but if it happens, then there is information within the research department about a serious social failure. In that case, it would be wrong to say that an investigation should never be carried out. That is why a provision has been introduced which would allow the House to carry out an investigation in that case too. Not because something is said in the newspaper, but because we have specific information as a result of a report. If it is serious enough, the House would not otherwise be able to do its job, namely to solve social abuses. That is the heart of the House. Then it couldn't do that job. So that's that research of its own accord. I would like to thank Mrs Vos for her compliments, especially those on perseverance. It's okay for MPs to sit around a little longer. If it takes ten years to make a law, it's useful for MPs to be allowed to sit for ten years. I am very grateful that I have been given this opportunity; not all my colleagues get it, because the average term of office is, I believe, three and a half years. Perhaps that is a lesson for the committees that are now drawing up the lists. But now I'm very out of order... Mrs. Vos was quite right to point out a mistake. The notification of a non-research should not be made to the employer; that is not the intention. The minister's gonna fix this as soon as possible. How, I don't know, but we're gonna do it. I would like to draw a little more attention to the next point. Mrs Vos and others also asked: if there is a House later, if we voted for it and went through that process, will that be enough? Isn't there a need for cultural change? Of course, that's exactly the point. We in this country will have to deal differently with citizens who do their civic duty. I have already briefly outlined why we, the initiators, have come to this. That was because we don't want any more crying, terrified civilians in our study. In our democracy, in our rule of law, citizens should not be afraid of doing their civic duty and reporting serious abuses. If it is, something's wrong. This House is going to solve that insofar as whistleblowers are protected, abuses are investigated and recommendations to resolve it are made. However, I have already mentioned in my introduction that I have seen a change in culture since 2006, when the discussion began. The fact that this House has been there, the fact that we have adopted motions in the House of Representatives, the fact that we have made own-initiative laws, the fact that there have been discussions, has convinced me that there has been a different way of dealing with whistleblowers in the last ten years. I very much hope that the House will contribute to this cultural change. That is why I am very pleased, at least, to say that the intervention of your Chamber, President, has been so important. From a polarized situation we made a law for a House for whistleblowers that immediately stood on the sidewalk and immediately went to intervene and we had to wait and see if it could do all that. Now we are in a situation where the House is laying down the responsibilities where they belong, with the organisations, and in which it constantly invites the organisations to resolve a miscarriage. If an organization doesn't know what's going on, there will be an investigation and recommendations. Each time an organization eventually gets an opportunity to solve it. I hope that we will have more learning, self-learning organisations in the Netherlands. In my opinion, this can only be done with a stick behind the door and that stick is the House. I think that will lead us to deal differently with whistleblowers, also because hopefully there will be fewer polarised cases in the media and in court. This responsibility will hopefully be taken off the shoulders of the whistleblower and will end up with the House. That's gonna change. I have good hopes that the House will contribute to this cultural change. I would like to thank Mr Köhler for his compliments. He asked about the added value. That's what I've been working on. I have also gone into the position ofzzp'ers, trainees and so on quite extensively. The mistake that has been made, we will fix. He also specifically asked if this is it. Mrs Bikker also spoke on behalf of the SGP Group. I like that very much. The SGP was initially very critical, much more critical than the Christian Union. One of the co-initiators, who unfortunately cannot be here today, is Mr Segers of the Christian Union. Mr Klein is also a co-user and unfortunately could not be here today. I think it is a very nice symbol that in May 2014 Christian Union and SGP spoke separately here, had separate inserts that were also very different in character and nature, and now there is one input. I think that shows exactly the development that we have all been going through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u103	Now I think the hug's getting a little too tight. It is in our own jurisdiction as groups in the First Chamber that we review this bill. However, the compliments are that it could have been in a constructive tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u104	Thank you very much. I've gone into culture. I tried to reflect on that. I think it's a nice case, from someone who has two companies with more than 50 employees. I think we should just join the Works Councils Act here. There will be a model procedure for small organisations. It is an important task for the House to provide for it. There will therefore certainly be such a model procedure for small organisations, for which there is no legal obligation. The evaluation is due in five years. I think that is just right to ensure that the House can work for a few years and we can see how cooperation with organisations is going and so on. I have said a few things about the flexible shell. It is the responsibility of the House to do exactly that. We shouldn't get involved in the institution too much. Mrs Bikker is right in saying that the Minister does indeed have a role to play in the House. We have, of course, written the Minister completely out of the framework law, independent administrative bodies, but not in the event of job neglect. That's the minister's job. However, in order to ensure that there is no abuse, even in the future with other ministers, the House of Representatives has a role to play here too. The House shall make an annual report and an annual report on the functioning as ZBO. I have already said a lot about the President, as have the principle of non-discrimination. I would like to thank Mr Koffeman very much for the poignant examples. They're very moving. I very much agree with him that a whistleblower is not a querulant or a snitch and that a mentality change is necessary. I have just tried to put Mrs Vos over his head that I am convinced that the House will help bring about this change of mentality, precisely because the House is also a stick behind the door. I would like to thank Mrs Van Weerdenburg very much for the support. I also think it is a special debate. We've been working on this for ten years. I feel like we can really make a difference with this. She is quite right to say that a whistleblower is someone who puts the public interest above his own. What I have a great deal of difficulty with, which we have a great deal of difficulty with, and why we have made this initiative law, is that there are constantly whistleblower cases. I referred to 1989, when I graduated and read an article on whistleblowers in which compelling examples were mentioned. We are no longer in 1989, but in 2016, and I think it is actually irresponsible that such an article can be rewritten with other, but still moving examples. You can't do that anymore. We need to put an end to that. This brings me to the end of my contribution. I just want to say a few words about money. When we made this bill, we looked at what it was going to cost. We didn't have to suck that out of our minds. We have made very grateful use of the experiences of the Advisory Point, OIO and other organisations. We have come to the conclusion that 3 million is needed for advice and research, a four tonne for information, a tonne for security of files and information systems and a one-off amount for start-up of the organisation: 15 minutes making, communication policy, security, housing, furnishing processes and the like. If the House doesn't get there, the Advisory Point and the OIO will remain. That also costs a lot of money. In the end, it's a small amount. If I were Minister of Finance, I'd put it up as a very big cut. After all, we only need to avoid one fraud, think of the construction fraud, and we are cutting millions or even tens or hundreds of millions. There's a small amount left. As far as we are concerned, that does not have to be borne by the Minister of the Interior alone. It's government business. It is such a small amount that it will still be difficult to place it in the budget. If this Chamber adopts this bill, a provision will certainly be made. The Minister will take the initiative. We are also happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Van Raak. I think it's pretty. It's an important subject. You've been talking for almost two hours. There were a lot of interruptions. I think you've created a lot of clarity. I now give the floor to the Minister, in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u106	Mr. Chairman. It is indeed the speaking time of Albanian party leaders. I will try to be very brief in this context, perhaps also to illustrate the fact that there has been very good cooperation in the journey to this novel. Where questions have been put to both the initiators and the government, I will only reply where that answer differs significantly from the excellent answers already given by the initiator on behalf of all the initiators. Let me make my introduction brief. My compliments to the initiators and, in particular, to Mr Van Raak, who has brought this so far with his perseverance. My compliments also to the others, including Professor Van Vollenhoven, who assisted them with advice and deed. I would also like to mention the people of the Advisory Point and of the Research Institute, the OIO, who have laid the foundations for what can now be set out in this legislative proposal. My compliments to all of them. I had intended to pass on the blessings, the benefits, of the legislative initiative that is now before me, but I refer to the speaker before me. On the previous occasion, I stood here and did not recommend the initiative proposal before me. I can now recommend it with confidence, because the points I made on behalf of the government have been dealt with by this novelle. First of all, this would be the placing in a Zbo instead of the National Ombudsman, which would raise a constitutional objection. Secondly, this is the separation of research and advice, which is effectively regulated. Thirdly, there are separate research regimes for the public and private sectors. Fourthly, mandatory referral and priority is given to the investigation by the Public Prosecutor, the supervisors and the inspections. In that sense, it will indeed become a last resort. Fifthly, the legal protection of whistleblowers has now been developed in a balanced way by means of a general ban on harm. These five elements make me think that there is now a very balanced and balanced proposal. I can therefore recommend this to the Chamber. However, I have to make the point that I also made in the House of Representatives on 29 June 2015 when dealing with this novelle, namely that, indeed, the financial coverage is currently limited to the four tonnes currently in the budget for BZK. That includes the OIO as it is now. The BZK's budget is public, so the Chamber knows it. If the bill is passed, then it is very lean. Then after the start-up phase, I don't think it will be enough to fill in the ambitions. If the First Chamber adopts this bill, especially if it were to be as broad as in the Second Chamber, then I hope that at the next opportunity room can be found in the budget, at least more than there is now, to make this House possible. I would add that I do not have the room to make 3 or 4 million structuralally available from the BZK budget, which is not as large as leaving the Municipal Fund and the AIVD out there. So there's a lot to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u107	I do not think that four tonnes is enough for that brick building with those doors and that bell from Mr Van Raak, let alone for the staff, for the staff. The Minister says: I hope... I would like to hear it a little more forcefully, namely: I will endeavour to ensure that resources are found in the state budget. If this bill becomes law, then the minister is primarily responsible for its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u108	In the House of Representatives I have been somewhat stricter than I would like to be on this occasion. I said at the time that I could not give a positive opinion on an initiative law that was not covered, but in order not to delay the process, I then said: let us assume that the next opportunity will be taken by the person who took the initiative to find cover for this. That was, of course, the autumn decision-making. However, I note that this has not yet happened. Nevertheless, I will do my best to find that cover, but I hope for cooperation from both Chambers of the States-General. I come to the remaining questions that the various Members have put to me. A question has been asked about the role of the President. This was also the subject of a wide-ranging debate. I think that, for the sake of clarity, I can say that the President does indeed have no powers and should have them at this stage and that he or she does not need them either because of the role he or she plays. The interrupting debate alone illustrates the importance of clarifying that role in the administrative regulations, in the opinion and in the research protocol, which will still be drawn up. That is the answer to questions from Mrs Van Bijsterveld, Mrs Vos, Mr De Graaf and others. Ms Van Bijsterveld asked an important question about the information position and the relationship with the Public Prosecutor. We need to distinguish between the advisory section and the investigation department of the House. Let me start with the advice section. The whistleblower must be sure that he can share his story with the department's advice in confidence and that this confidentiality is also guaranteed in the direction of the prosecution. The College of Attorneys-General shares this view and has therefore in the past also explicitly committed to the current point of advice that the Public Prosecutor will not obtain any information from the advisors at the advisory point in the context of the investigation. The College has informed me that it will continue this line with regard to the opinion section of the future House for whistleblowers. That's different for the research department. Where the investigation department itself is going to actively acquire information, this should not be an obstacle to a criminal prosecution. A slightly different approach has also been chosen from that of the Security Research Council. In doing so, the legislator has expressly stated that everything must be allowed to determine the situation. So if there were any obstruction at the front, we would have to remove it, and that would result in a barrier being placed at the back before it can be freely shared with the public prosecutor. So that is a different approach to what is happening here, because there is a problem here with the intention, for example, of following up on a criminal offence, including criminal prosecution, if necessary. A further protocol is being drawn up which sets out exactly how this process is to be organised. The Chamber will see that, but the discussions with the College of Attorney General so far seem to indicate that we will get out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u109	This is really an important point. Let me mention Mr Bos' example. After he sounded the clock, he ended up in a criminal prosecution trial that lasted for years. You just don't want situations like this. I want to make it clear that that will be ruled out. I'm honestly not quite sure about that right now. The Minister is now talking about a miscarriage and says that in the event of a criminal offence, for example, the civil servant or anyone else should be prosecuted, but it can also, of course, go the other way towards the whistleblower, to whom they say: you have once also worked on something that is not entirely right, so we are going to prosecute you as well. Well, at least I'm dealing with this difficult issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u110	My answer was indeed on that first case. I think that the intended effect of raising an error is to give it a criminal follow-up if necessary, of course aimed at the person responsible for creating that wrongdoing. Another question is whether the fact that you're a whistleblower doesn't prevent you from prosecuting in case you'd done something wrong yourself. I don't think that's what this bill is about. I don't see how you'd want to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u111	Of course, I recognise the dilemma, but we see it as a social interest that people are going to report, even though they may have participated in something that is not criminally proper. They repent and say: I want to stop it now; I am going to report it. That's what we want to promote. That is exactly the dilemma in which you end up, even in the case of Mr Bos. I think we're gonna run into that someday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u112	I see the dilemma, but I note that the initiative law now before us means that the public prosecutor can indeed request information about the investigation phase. Once again, the protocol for this is being further developed. I don't need to come back on the flexible shell. In reply to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question, I can say that extending the administration indeed requires a change of law. That is the bottomline, as was shown in the brief discussion on this subject. Mrs Barth asked if this House could work for whistleblowers as an appeal body. No, it is not, but that does not mean that I believe that Mr Van Raak has said that you would no longer be able to go to the House for whistleblowers when an inspection has found that there is nothing going on. Indeed, it does not mean that you will be told at the front door of the House for whistleblowers: you will not be received in your request for advice or in your attempt to raise an investigation, because you have already been served. It can't mean that. It may well be that the House for whistleblowers takes note of it when there is a public report and that it takes that information with it in advising and in the follow-up phase and possibly in conducting a further investigation. It is, however, conceivable that an inspection concludes that it cannot do anything with it and that the House for whistleblowers, for example, also looking at the treatment, concludes that something has not gone well and that it is taking that matter into consideration and that it may be indicating an error at the point of treatment. There is a certain risk of people going off all the agencies, but I think it would be a greater evil if you would say: you have already been to the inspection, so you are no longer allowed in the House for whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u113	I welcome this clarification from the Minister. The background to my question was really only that it would not be a good thing for us if the House for whistleblowers were to feed the belief that some people in our society are convinced that there is nothing good about inspections as well. It is very good to hear from both the Minister and Mr Van Raak that this is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u114	I agree. Mrs Barth asked a question about legal protection. She asked what it actually adds to good employership. The added value lies in explicitly naming the ban on disadvantage of the whistleblower. That is a little more explicit than what you might expect from a good employer sec. Once research has been done, can there be an integral discussion of the whole case in a board? It is essential that it is an independent investigation. The position of the employer is, after all, the third interested party or the institution to which the notification is made, which implies that it must also be carefully protected, so ultimately, the whole administration is responsible for quality and service throughout the House. The question on written consent has already been answered. Several Members have asked about the repair of the law on a point which I have already mentioned in the written reply that I do not think that this was correct. Where it is decided not to investigate, this is reported to the person concerned, namely the whistleblower or the potential whistleblower, but not to his employer. Because that would cause unnecessary damage. That's what it should say, but it doesn't say now. In any case, I will ensure in the follow-up action that this is not going to happen in practice, but because it has to be repaired, I will prepare a repair law. I will also take with me a number of other small things that have been identified. I'm on it. I see no reason why that should be a big issue. I can do it quickly. Mr De Graaf asked if I could shed light on a number of overlapping problems and questions of separation. The light on the clock is still limited, so I'll be brief. A number of provisions have been made in the law for the demarcation issues, at least the obligation to conclude a cooperation protocol with the Public Prosecutor. In addition, there is an obligation to align in the case of an individual investigation. There is also the possibility to conclude protocols with other supervisors and inspections. I will see to it that this possibility is used. Mrs Bikker and Mrs Vos asked a question about the Council of Europe's recommendations. The short answer to that is that they can largely be found in the Wet Huis voor bellblowers. I say "mostly" because one recommendation, which on the handling of the media and journalists, is not laid down in this initiative law. However, this is subject to regular freedom of expression and all relevant legislation. Mr De Graaf asked about the appointment of the members of the House for whistleblowers. It has just been discussed in the course of an interruption. The law shall ensure that such appointment is as independent as possible from the Minister. Article 3c (1) provides that the House shall be heard on the appointment to be formalised by Royal Decree. The first time, of course, that is not possible because, strictly speaking, there is no House yet. The scouts and quartermasters will prepare the first appointment with an independent commission and external recruitment. Moreover, this is in line with the working methods of the Election Council and the Security Research Council, for example. Those are also bodies in which the Chamber is confident that the appointment is going properly there, regardless of the person in office who is currently in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or directors in other ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u115	I thank the Minister for this answer, but he answered a question I did not ask. I asked him to look at the position of the President, who is not involved in the individual case positions at least, that is not the intention but should be a figurehead at the same time. What, then, is the President more than almost literally managing the House? I asked the Minister to answer that. That is different from the independence of the appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u116	I thought otherwise I was wrong to say that Mr Graaf had also asked a question about the appointments. That was the answer. As far as the position of the President is concerned, I have just referred briefly to the debate that has just been held and I have said that there is still a need for further clarification and clarification in the protocols. I would nevertheless like to answer the question. Mr De Graaf is, of course, right that when the President is the face of the House, he must explain the decisions of the House and publicly and must therefore be involved in a final discussion in which that decision is finalized and the speech on it is aligned. We will have to look at how you can organise it in such a way that the President does not deal with matters at a case-by-case level. If the President were to do so, the Chinese wall between advice and research would of course no longer be guaranteed because the President could be a kind of bridge to ensure that the researchers would do as much justice as possible to the advice of the Advisory Department, which would be contrary to the right of the third party concerned, for example the employer. That must be laid down precisely in order for the President to be able to function properly. In the debate, two cases were somewhat confused in relation to the ban on harm. People who work for an organisation, regardless of whether they do so as zzp'er, volunteer or trainee, are receptive to the House for whistleblowers. They can denounce a social error and get advice from the Advisory Chamber on how to deal with it. If there is reason to do so, their report of a failure can be received by the research department. The ban is linked to the concept of employee in the Civil Code and to the civil service, as defined in the Civil Service Act. So this does not concern, for example, volunteers; we need to be clear about that. But I do think the first one is important. This means that volunteers orzzp'ers can also be received in what they aim to do, namely to denounce a social failure. The House will not say: you are not an employee according to the Civil Code, so we will not deal with the notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u117	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Raak for the very detailed answer he has given to the questions and for the very kind and even praiseworthy words he has given to this Chamber. I've never experienced that in this sense. I am also a little inclined to attribute this to our group. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank the Minister for his brief reply. In our opinion, it created a lot of clarity. I'll try to keep it as short as possible. I have two points left. The first concerns the relationship in information provision between the House and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Van Raak said: let it happen for a while; hard agreements must be made. It may be a little too complicated and too vulnerable for that. I was pleased with the Minister's explanatory statement, which said that it is simply clear on the point of the opinion, namely 'no', which is also included in a cooperation protocol. When it comes to a completed investigation, it's something else. We just don't want to deliver immunity there. I can see that there can be a certain dilemma. On the one hand, of course, we do not want to discourage whistleblowers from reporting. When the risk of criminal prosecution is high, it is slowed down. On the other hand, we want to prevent potential whistleblowers who have not acted entirely purely from taking refuge in the House in order to miss a mood that is already coming. I see just a complicated point here. I believe that this regulation needs to be regulated by law. I can imagine that it is too difficult at the moment, but in five years time we will have seen what the situation is like. Do the initiators object to such a thing being regulated by law after the five-year evaluation period? Can they imagine that? Is the Minister prepared to take this delicate issue very explicitly into account in the evaluation? It is not just a question of how it works in practice, but also of how, in theory, you can do this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u118	I fully understand and agree with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's dilemma, as well as the weighting she makes in it. But how can you ever solve that by including an article in the law? You will always have to consider on a case-by-case basis how serious the offences committed by a whistleblower are. A judge or the Public Prosecutor will always have to consider whether someone will be prosecuted if he repents and returns. I don't see how you can solve this dilemma by writing a certain measure into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u119	It is not primarily a measure of whether or not to prosecute, but rather the provision of information on the basis of which the prosecution can make an assessment. That's what it's really about. Of course, the prosecution will have to make its own assessment in all cases, as is the case now. If, for example, it is clear from a report that there is a great deal going on and the public prosecutor is watching to obtain the information on which it is based, then of course it is a different story. I can also, of course, see that this House is a bit different from the Security Research Council, as the Minister said, and that the importance of security should be at the top. You have to be very clear about that. In essence, that dilemma doesn't play out there, but here it does in a certain way. I can imagine that it would be useful not to let this go completely and say: let it happen and we will see. I don't have the answer now either, but maybe we can find it over time. My second point concerns the governance structure. I am very pleased with the answers given by Mr Van Raak. He confessed that he is a liberal in some respects, deep in his heart, and that he wants to stay away from the institution of the House. I found that conclusion a little too easy. We have indeed said that we do not need to close the windows of the House. However, the House must stand on a solid foundation. Mr Van Raak will agree with that. The question of governance that has now emerged, I see as a kind of consequence of the very good work that the initiators have done to meet the concerns of the First Chamber. The debate next, I see that we have already taken 90% of the steps for divorce. 10% remains. I myself think the word "house" is the pitfall in the discussion. The word "house" presupposes a physical unity. We've already talked about a building with an entrance. Cups of coffee and tea have been discussed all the time. It keeps you a little stuck with the two souls that live in one body. I imagine you're not taking that step for the last 10% right now, but in a next phase. From that moment on, you keep talking figuratively about the House for whistleblowers, but you really break up the organizations. You will then get a board of directors or a board of directors for advice and a board for research with each its own chairman. Maybe that could even be one person. Thus you separate the two parts and, as with the Ombudsman, there is responsibility at case level and for the larger whole, in advice and investigation. The whole thing can still be called House, but with two departments that are 100% separated, each with an entrance and a doorbell.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u120	So these are two independent administrative bodies, perhaps with a personal union for the President. Would Mrs Van Bijsterveld, because of her basic reasoning, recommend this more generally, for example when it comes to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u121	I am happy to confine myself to the bill we are debating today. The Council of State will be given a separate consideration in due course if I am given the spokesmanship. I can imagine you have both activities in one house, but she's functionally separated. The activities at the Council of State are also functionally well separated at case level. My question is whether this is a solution to the problem. My question to the initiators is whether they would eventually object to such a solution by law. The question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to look at this in a subsequent legislative amendment and to include it in the evaluation anyway. You could see how it works out in practice, but also in theory, in terms of modern concepts of good governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u122	May I remind you of the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u123	Sure, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u124	Do I understand Mrs Van Bijsterveld that she has become so enthusiastic about the House for whistleblowers that she really wants to go to two houses for whistleblowers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u125	No, Mr Köhler did not understand that correctly. We're talking about the House for whistleblowers. This has two clear functions that are 90% separate from each other. My question is whether we can also separate that 10% by removing the difficult role of President. You can still speak figuratively of one house. I ask for the reaction of the initiators, as well as that of the Minister. We talked about the quartermasters and the House's own regulations. I have another question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u126	I'll remind you of the time again. You're getting over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u127	Thank you. Is it not convenient to use Article 21a of the bill, which allows for further rules on the establishment of General Measure of Management? That is a specific question I would like to put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u128	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with a number of positive things that Mr Van Raak said during his extensive introduction, which had ended just before the end. I fully agree that it is a lot of improvements: no longer with the Ombudsman, protection of the whistleblower, the internal reporting procedure. It is right for Mr Van Raak to say that VNO-NCW should be pleased with that. I can't tell whether people at VNO-NCW are happy or not. If one is happy, one knows how to suppress it well. At least it didn't turn out to be me. It is certain that the VVD is happy and that is also important, I think. What Mr Van Raak has written down, I have even said sympathetically. That's a special form of happiness I'd like to give him. Mr Van Raak spoke about cooperation between the left and the right. Thanks for the compliment. I wasn't aware of it, so that makes it all the more pleasant for him to see it that way. He's looking at it from the left, I suppose. I have to tell him in confidence that I'm looking at it from the right. However, I see that it creates a bond, so it promises something nice for the future. However, we should not be overconfident at the moment and look at everything through pink glasses, because I still have a few problems. First of all, let's go back to the research department's misdemeanor investigation. I am not talking about the examination of the treatment or the investigation into the follow-up of the recommendations. I'm here about the misdemeanor investigation. The reason why this possibility has been created varies considerably during the course of the draft law. At first it was the need for backup, later it became governance. Then it became blind spots and then it became ultimum remedium. Now I hear Mr Van Raak say that there is also a lack of capacity in existing institutions, such as inspections. That does not give a clear picture of the need to place the investigation at the House. I keep it to my point that they actually belong to inspections and supervisors. I haven't heard any specific advantages in bringing the investigations to the House. However, I have mentioned a specific advantage to include it in the inspections, namely the sanctions and the knowledge they have. I continue to hope that the House will be extremely reluctant to deal with the powers of investigation conferred on it by the draft law. Then I'll come to the public eye. Mr Van Raak said that I based my call for public access solely on the possibility of defending the organisation. That's not all I said. I said a few more things. However, that defence is necessary. The booklet of the Association of Trade Law states from the practice of the lawyer that experience shows that in any case, there will be many civil proceedings that ask for defence. It's about big interests. I also said that public access is necessary because the press and the public need to know where they stand. The aim is also to draw lessons from the abuses and the way in which they are dealt with. Publicity is also necessary because we all need to be able to check whether the conclusions of such an investigation are sufficiently supported in the facts. We must then consider these general interests, in addition to the interest of the whistleblower, which also serves a general interest and which must not be unnecessarily restricted in its freedom to speak. And then my group tends to think that the general interest I mentioned, i.e. the conclusions, the public scrutiny, the ability to check whether we can learn from this and the defence of the organisation, should be the most serious. However, as I said in the first round, this is a bit of a theoretical balancing of interests, because we have to take serious account of the fact that a lot of these things do not remain secret for a long time. That's what it turns out to be every time. It comes out piece by piece and then it comes out. In such a situation, my group thinks it wise to seriously consider the possibility of playing the cards straight from the very beginning, no matter how difficult that may be. Publicity, or at least the prospect of public access, could also encourage stakeholders, including organisations, to cooperate at a somewhat earlier stage. That is the possibility the initiators offer them. I would like to comment on the lack of legal remedies. I have a question about a point that does not come out very well. Do the applicants consider that the decisions taken by the investigation department during the course of the investigation are open to appeal to the administrative judge? I am referring to decisions on admissibility, whether or not to comply with the obligation to provide information and the report itself and its distribution between research information and conclusions. Or do they consider that only the provisions relating to the obligation of information are subject to appeal? I suspect the latter, because before that the initiators had included an article, Article 19d, and they were corrected by the Council of State. But they may have changed their minds by now. If the applicants consider that all decisions are indeed open to appeal, then the absence of legal remedies will naturally lapse as a deficiency. Then I have one more question for the Minister. Our objections have therefore been partially removed but for the most part not. With regard to research, openness and the lack of legal remedies, we have doubts, and still the question remains: why is it so regulated and not different and better in our view? There will be an evaluation in five years, according to the law. That was a D66 amendment. Will the Minister take our doubts into that evaluation? We see problems there. Does the Minister intend to look at the extent to which these problems actually arise over the next five years? We hope not, of course. We hope to see Mr Van Raak's claroon punches and trumpets coming true, and perhaps sooner than five years from now, but you never know. We prefer not to be right, but should we be right, we can do something about it in five years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u129	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank Mr Van Raak and the Minister for the answers they have given. That doesn't mean I don't have any more questions in second term. The answers, particularly by Mr Van Raak, have been given regularly from an obviously very warm heart, but when we are dealing with legislation, it is also important that we keep our heads to it and there can be no difference in the interpretation or interpretation of the law. We are always a little strict on this, especially in the First Chamber, especially in the case of own-initiative legislation, but we are obviously doing so on the basis of the great importance of proper interpretation and application of the law. I can only conclude that there is still some noise around the scope of the law, and in particular the question of who is protected by that law. It was not completely removed in the first period. We're talking about the protection of whistleblowers. Next, the legislative proposal itself always talks about employees. In the reply, the applicants state: we will have to include the position of volunteers, trainees andzzp'ers in the evaluation, because we have not regulated them now. Next, the debate says again that they are covered. I would therefore be happy if the proposers and the Minister could get this straight in the second term, so that it is very clear who is protected by this bill and who is not. Because the Minister has just indicated that the ban on harming volunteers cannot actually apply in this way. This ban is an important added value for our group, but in the first term of the petitioners and the minister, I have not fully grasped the added value of the ban on discrimination in relation to the current obligation to be a good employer, which has already been included in the Civil Code. The minister just said: yes, it's more But that's really too easy. A good employer should not penalise his employee if he makes a notification which promotes the public interest, namely the elimination of a disturbance. So you could say that the ban on harm is already an integral part of being a good employer. I have asked for case-law: where have there been cases in which that ban would lead to a different outcome of a lawsuit against employees than without this bill? I would therefore like to challenge the Minister and the proposers to indicate what the ban on discrimination is about on top of the obligation to be a good employer. It seems to me that if the law is to be applied later and there are dismissal cases, it is very important that in the interpretation and history of this law we have a little more to report to the court than just: the ban on harm is more than just being a good employer. Finally. Mr Van Raak remains extremely persistent in failing to answer our question as to why he is not prepared to pass on the costs of an investigation to bodies which have been shown to have suffered a failure. We are convinced that this can have added value and we would like to hear what the objections are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u130	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Barth's last question tells me that it might be useful for the Court's decision-making framework for passing on public expenditure to this Chamber to be reached quickly. Then that could also play a role in the consideration of this matter. I would like to thank Mr Van Raak for his long introduction and answers. The thanks also apply to the Minister, but they were a little shorter. The treatment in the First Chamber makes a law better, I said at first. That has also proved to be the case here. Clarity has not necessarily increased on all fronts, so I say honestly. This applies, for example, to the whole structure of the separation between advice and research and the role of the directors, in particular the chairman. The Minister has already indicated to the President that he believes with us that this needs to be further and more clearly mapped out. In general, I would also consider it important for the drivers. It would therefore be advisable, for example, to have a clearer view of this by means of further regulation. Perhaps some kind of analysis can be made before the regulations are tested and the law is in the Official Journal. That doesn't have to stop the law, but it is necessary to do so. In this sense, I agree with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's remarks, without going so far as to say that there must be two houses or two entrances with a blind wall. It must be effective, but functional separation can be even better regulated. I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment to repair Article 7. In response to our written comments, he indicated this. This is where he repeated it. It is good that this is included in the legislative planning. My final point concerns the clarity of the concept of workers, which Mrs Barth also mentioned. If I understand correctly, Article 1 (h) of this law defines the concept of worker. This should also include the performance of work other than in employment, whatzzp'ers do. They could even be volunteers. The Minister then refers in his reply to the Civil Code Book 7, Article 658c. It also uses the concept of "worker" and states that it is prohibited from doing so. The question now arises as to whether, where Chapter 3 of this Act explicitly mentions Article 658c of the Civil Code, the concept of employee of this Act does not apply to that article. The Minister actually says: sorry, but the concept of employee in the Civil Code is different from the concept of employee in this law. That's tricky. If this is true, Mrs Barth is right. Then volunteers orzzp'ers who receive assignments are not protected by this law if the employer still wants to harm them for what they have done in reporting a failure. That can't be the intention. Either the concept of worker is broader here too, or we still need to fix it. I ask for a very clear statement from the authors, but above all from the Minister, together with Mrs Barth, because this must lead to repair legislation if it is not in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u131	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Raak very much for his comprehensive and enthusiastic response. I would also like to thank the Minister in advance for his reply. I think it is nice and important that the added value of this legislative proposal has been clearly explained once again. It was gratifying to hear that the Minister actually said he wanted to do this, but that he fully joined the initiators. It was also gratifying that he said: I support this House and support its added value. In fact, he recommends this House and this law, so I like that. It is also good that, in the end, there is a very clear unanimity on what this is going to bring us. There are, of course, a few questions that remain. My group also welcomes the discussion we have had on the cooperation protocol, in particular with regard to investigation by the House for whistleblowers and the cooperation protocol with the Public Prosecutor. It has become clear to me what the interpretation of this bill is, namely that it should be possible at any time to institute criminal proceedings, whether it be the whistleblower or the organisation or persons in the organisation who may be responsible for abuses. It has also become clear to me that the protection of the whistleblower is a very important issue. That is what Mr Van Raak said. However, I would like to say that the cooperation protocol is a matter of paying close attention to the final weighing and protection of the whistleblower, also because we want people to ring the bell at all. The weighing shall be balanced. Perhaps we should look into that in an evaluation. I agree with Mrs Barth and Mr De Graaf on the precise definition of the concept of worker in connection with the ban on harm. The Minister explained it clearly, but his explanation seems to be different from Mr Van Raak's. I think that's important. I would like to express my thanks for the fact that Article 7 is being repaired and for Mr Van Raak's words on cultural change. He's optimistic about that. He says that it is already going on and outlines that the House can encourage organizations to learn to deal differently with people's reports. The question of whether the House will indeed have contributed to this cultural change in this way should, in my view, be included in the evaluation in five years' time. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for saying that the budget of four tonnes is what it is now, but that he is prepared to look for room in the budget, provided that the Chamber supports him in it. So he's looking for cooperation with the Chamber. I hope that you will come out together, because I honestly believe that there is a need for a wider budget for doing this work well than the budget available now. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u132	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank Mr Van Raak and Minister Plasterk for their joint and exhaustive response. Our three questions have been answered clearly, albeit not entirely satisfactory on one point. This concerns whether or not to properly protect thezzp'er, the intern and the volunteer. Moreover, it was clear to me that the concept of worker in the legislation on the House for whistleblowers in Article 1h is extended to include the phrase "the person who does or has performed work other than in employment." So these groups are all covered. I am also pleased that this has just been explicitly stated for the history of law. The Minister has added that this does not relate to the ban on harm. This is included in the Civil Code and in the passage on employees. The definition of this is different in the Civil Code. The same applies to the Civil Service Act, the Police Act and so on. So I understand that distinction very well and also the reason why it has been included or not. However, the conclusion remains that legal protection for volunteers,zzp'ers and such persons is less well anchored in the various legislative changes. I don't see a one-two-three solution for that either. Perhaps it is a point of attention if we talk about it again in due course, as the Minister says. In the exhaustive answer, Mr Van Raak has said so much beautifully that sometimes it sounded even more beautiful than I think it is. For example, he said that the careful procedure to be followed at the House would also benefit employers. Sometimes people bring all sorts of things to the press right now. This could not be done with the careful procedure. That seems to me to be a little wishful thinking, because even if the House is there for whistleblowers, any querulant can go straight to the press. He doesn't have to go to the House for whistleblowers. There is no legal obligation to seek advice there. Also there will always be editors and media who want to turn every mosquito into an elephant. That doesn't stop you with any law. By the way, we should not want to stop that either. We should not try to let the press protect itself from itself, however necessary you might sometimes think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u133	May I remind you of the time, Mr Köhler?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u134	I'm rounding up. As far as we're concerned, one House is enough. It will not solve all the problems surrounding the phenomenon of whistleblowers, but this bill will strengthen the position of whistleblowers and lead to careful handling of all involved. That is why I will strongly advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal. You won't be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u135	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and in particular Mr Van Raak for his reply. His colleagues must have supported him in that. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. I'd like to take a few short walks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u136	You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u137	Yeah, that's why I'm going as the fire department, even though this isn't a parliamentary text. I'll make speed. First of all, the Christian Union has stressed that the future of the House for whistleblowers is, in its eyes, a benchmark in the process in which much has already happened to help whistleblowers. Advice points are furnished. At the same time, it is also about culture in organisations. I think it is important that we continue to pay attention to this aspect. We shouldn't think that if the law is there, it's fine. I ask the Minister to make a commitment to involve this in the evaluation. I would like to thank the authors for their commitment to establish a model procedure for organisations with fewer than 50 employees. I think that makes sense. A great deal has already been said by colleagues about the disadvantage regulation and the definition of the employee's position. I understand from the reply to our group that there is reduced legal protection for the categories ofzzp'ers, volunteers and others. I regret that. The applicants have said that this will come back to the evaluation. However, I fear that we have already seen a few blue noses and eyes. I therefore ask the Minister to keep this in mind, so that we do not have to wait five years if we are sure that it really has to be different. I ask him to make a commitment on this point. I come to policy accountability. The minister was kept away because it's a Zbo. I have not yet heard the petitioner address the question of how he sees the House of Representatives take its role in this. As regards the separation between the opinion and research section, I agree with what Mr De Graaf said. My final point concerns the overlap with supervisory bodies, the inspections and, in particular, the Public Prosecutor's Office. My group notes that there is still a field of tension that is not removed in this legislative proposal. I am thinking in particular of the Nemo-Tenetur principle: one cannot accuse oneself and should not participate in it. That remains with this bill. My group finds that very difficult. It has been removed from the National Security Research Council Act, with a different perspective, of course, because that is what security is about. However, if we want to protect whistleblowers and if they really want to ring the bell, a solution will have to be found. I really ask for a good reflection on this point, both from the author and from the Minister for the Interior. I hope that this reflection will give us another wise idea of how to fix this in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u138	You have indeed stayed within your three minutes of speaking time. I am also pleased that you have mentioned the principle of neo-tenetur, because that is what we are talking about all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u139	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister very much for answering our first-term questions. I would like to congratulate the authors and congratulate them on the fact that their years of work seem to most of the spokesmen in this house to be largely rewarding. The chance that the House for whistleblowers stranded in the house for reflection seems to have become small. In any case, it will not be up to my group. We can see that this European scoop will still have a significant development to take place and that the chances of success are indeed in the implementation, as Mr Vos said. You're gonna have to make a start on that first. It's nice that it seems to be coming from there. Those four tonnes will not be able to make the difference, but with the laying of this first stone, my group's hope is that it will affect cultural change in public institutions in particular. I refer to the battle of Fred Spijkers and the criminal expeditions mentioned by Sjaak Jansen and the lack of security and justice in the ministry of the same name. My group will be happy to cooperate fully on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u140	Then we have reached the second term on the part of the proposers and the minister. I see that Mr Van Raak is able to answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u141	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all the lovely words. Thank you very much for all your support. It's gonna come. I think this is very important. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has outlined exactly the dilemma they will have with regard to the House and the Public Prosecutor. You want the House to be able to do truth finding after reporting a miscarriage. So people have to be able to tell us everything. That's why any classified information that doesn't appear in the report remains classified. However, we do not want the House's investigation to make criminal investigations more difficult or impossible. That's also in the interest of the whistleblower. If an organisation can be convicted of criminal offences or if there is a need for investigation, that investigation must also be able to proceed properly. We do not see how you could solve that legally, because that situation at the House for whistleblowers is just as different from at the Research Council for Security. The Minister was right to point that out. We can see that this dilemma exists. That is also very important. The solution to this is currently contained in the cooperation protocol. That can be very harsh. Tough agreements can be made in that. Why do we have faith in that? The College of Attorneys General also has confidence in it. That says, "We can fix it." We have tried to arrange in an earlier version of this bill that the House would not, for example, investigate if something is under the courts or if there has been a ruling. The College of Attorneys-General has said that there is no need to do so. That's why we got that out of the law. In this way, the college also indicates that you do not have to regulate some things in the law at this time. When I say "let it go," I don't mean "let it go and in five years we'll see what the damage is." That is precisely what I am saying: we all recognise the dilemma. I think Mrs Van Bijsterveld has put that as the best. We're all aware of that. The future House is also aware of this. In particular, the Public Prosecutor's Office is aware of this and has shown it. The D.A. is prepared to settle this in a cooperation protocol. If the public prosecutor says that he is prepared to settle this in a cooperation protocol, we, as initiators, believe that we should offer this possibility. In the evaluation, we will have to consider whether this is really the case. We can therefore make that commitment to Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I think it is very necessary to include this in the evaluation. In fact, if this would lead to problems before, we can still see how we can fix it. It could be done via an AMvB, protocol or otherwise. I think this is the way we should go. This is a path that both the D.A. and we trust. I come to the governance structure. I'm liberal in that. That is what I dare to say to Mr Schouwenaar. There are a number of things we need to take care of, but we need to leave the professionals to work on the further arrangement of the House. This starts with the quarter-minute maker, but that also applies to all other organisations, such as the advisory point, the OIO and the Stichting Expertgroep Kloelluiders. I would like to thank the latter for all the good work they have done for whistleblowers and for supporting the implementation of this law. An administrative regulation will be drawn up. The Minister of the Interior will be involved. If necessary, we will also have an opinion on this if we do not think it is enough. It will also certainly be the subject of evaluation if it turns out that the structure of the House's governance is shattered somewhere. However, I am convinced that if in practice it turns out that it is sanding somewhere, we know that much earlier and an AMvB is an opportunity to correct that. If the VVD is happy, we are also very happy. Sympathy is a superb kick of happiness. I'm serious. When we made the first law, there was a majority in the Chamber, but without VVD, CDA and SGP. I think we are doing something about this for our future, and I also look at the Children of State. We are convinced that this House will contribute to the quality of our democracy, our governance and our society. I told you very proudly that this is unique in the world. We're gonna send this House out for whistleblowers with a task and an assignment. This House could make a difference. Well, that could be hard. That also means that there must be support for it. The great gain of the 2012 treatment up to now is, in my opinion, much greater acceptance. It is about the support for the people of the consultative point, the OIO and the expert group. The FNV and the employers' organisations are now looking at this very differently than at first, so that support is much greater. I also think it is very important that the House gets support in the States-General; in the Lower House, but certainly also in the Upper Chamber. I think it is necessary to give that House a great deal of confidence. So I am extremely pleased that the VVD is now happy with the bill. Mr Schouwenaar has asked when there will be an investigation into a situation. I said that a criminal investigation by the D.A. is really something other than an investigation into a miscarriage. The same applies to inspections. They see if laws or regulations are being broken. They can issue fines or exclude a company. Perhaps we still differ as to whether we have good inspections, or where improvement is possible. I am convinced that a good inspection can also do good research. Then the House doesn't have to judge for whistleblowers whether it's a proper investigation. An important question is whether the research is sufficient to gain insight into the state of the art and to make possible recommendations to resolve this problem. I can imagine that in some cases additional research is possible. We have seen in the past that there may also be major problems with inspections and supervisors, for example in the Gotlieb case. The law provides for the House to be able to refer first to the inspections in those cases, even in that case. If the House does so, it is in the hope and confidence that such an inspection will also take responsibility and show itself a learning organisation, which is highly committed to the public interest. It may also be that this is not the case. Then there is a role for the House. Then I'll come to the public eye. Protecting information is really meant to protect the whistleblower or the detector, but also to protect the organization. I am not convinced that organisations can defend themselves better if you disclose all that information. I do not think that companies, if there are public discussions, can properly defend themselves on the basis of that information. I think they're better able to defend themselves in an independent investigation. Mr Schouwenaar also says that there is always a chance that it will leak. We're gonna spend a lot of money to make sure it doesn't leak. I do not think that leaks here are an option and that there is a very important role for the security of information and for the professionalism of the advisers and researchers, and certainly of the chairman. From the House for whistleblowers cannot be leaked. Then we have a completely different problem. Then we have a very quick evaluation, I can promise Mr Schouwenaar. Then I come to the question of decisions and objections. The advisory role and the investigation itself are factual acts and therefore not decisions within the meaning of the Awb. The disclosure of the investigation on its own initiative is also a factual act. There is therefore no objection and no appeal against it. However, it may be possible to refer the matter to the civil court. Decisions of the House in the context of the investigation are decisions within the meaning of the Awb. It is therefore possible to object and appeal against this. That was a suggestion from the Council of State which we would have liked to take over. In concrete terms, these are decisions relating to the acquisition of access to business data and documents, the obligation to provide information, the obligation to appear, the right to change and the decision on limited knowledge. Therefore, appeals and objections are always possible. Mr Schouwenaar also asked a question about possible civil damages actions. These cannot be ruled out, because on the basis of the report of the investigation department of the House, everyone can initiate a civil compensation action. A party may adopt the conclusions and observations contained in the report in its own procedural position. In a private-law procedure, parties can freely draw on the report. It is in line with the expectation that the court will ask the parties to comment on the content of the report. The report can also work in this way. I compare it with the case law in which research reports of the Research Council for Security play a role. Turns out that's rare in civil cases. I refer to the Dutch Lawyers' Magazine of 6 February 2015, episode 5, page 7. In practice, that seems to be very not so bad. Mr Schouwenaar also pointed to a number of difficulties, and that still remains in the house of the Grand Dictee der Nederlandse Taal. According to my neighbor, 23 mistakes are made on average. I hope we score under that. In any case, if there are linguistic errors, these are not matters of substance. I assume that we are going to look at the text very carefully in the repair law announced by the Minister. Mrs. Barth asked who's being protected. There is a discussion in politics and also in the cabinet about the rights ofzzp'ers and about the comparison betweenzzp'ers and people with permanent jobs. There are very different views, including behind this table. My view is: preferably a permanent job for everyone. The minister said that alsozzp'ers, volunteers, interns can go to the House, get advice and ask for an investigation. They may, for example, receive a treatment study. Mr Köhler is quite right when he says that there is a difference in the ban on discrimination between people with permanent jobs and others. Legal protection for them is less good, that's true, but that comes from what's in the Civil Code, the Civil Service Act and a number of other laws. We cannot change that in this law. That really falls outside of this bill on the House for whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u142	That's just the question, because this law adds an article to the Civil Code. It uses the term "worker" in the Civil Code. This means that your law does provide protection for the employee who has a permanent employment, and not for thezzp'er or the volunteer, when it comes to not being disadvantaged by the client as a result of reporting a failure. It's been your choice. You could also have put in this law, in addition to the employee's WW protection, that contractors, volunteers and others should not be disadvantaged either. That would have given them extra protection. You didn't. The question is whether we're gonna fix that after all. You can find something of that, the Minister can find something of that, and this Chamber can find something of that. Or are we just gonna let it go, with all the risks it's gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u143	In addition, I would like to make the following point. The applicants could have arranged this if they had not made that ban against workers, but for whistleblowers. The term "whistleblower" could have been defined in the bill. Then it would have been settled. In my first term, too, I asked why the applicants did not choose to do so. Why did they stick to that concept of "workers"? They could have made a bill for all whistleblowers. They could have done that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u144	As a co-legislator, I have the problem of having a majority. There was a majority for this. The background to this is that an employed person may lose his or her job. In the first instance, therefore, the stake was "dismissal protection." Fire protection applies to someone who has a contract. Furthermore, we have opened the House to everyone, includingzzp'ers, volunteers and trainees. They can also receive advice, ask for an investigation or receive an examination. Who knows, a treatment investigation can also play a role in a court of law. However, we have not chosen to change the Civil Code, the Civil Service Act or those other laws. Practice must show how big this problem is. If this is a major problem, I am the first to be prepared to take a measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u145	I'm gonna try one more time. The concept of "worker" should not have been changed if the proposers had avoided it by referring not to "workers" but to "whistleblowers" and if they had used a broad definition for that purpose. They could have left the term "worker" for what it was and they could have written a law stating that every whistleblower in his position should not be disadvantaged by the fact that he is a whistleblower. Then the proposers didn't have to talk about "workers" at all. We often encounter here the fact that, because of a political reality, we are faced with initiative legislative proposals from the House of Representatives of a lesser legal quality than we would like to see. One time the First Chamber is a little more forgiving in there than the other time. I am inclined to be reasonably forgiving about this now, but we need to be clear that a choice has been made to talk about 'workers' rather than 'clockblowers' in the broad sense, and that this was not necessary from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u146	That's right. An employee approach has been chosen. Starting point was to ensure that a whistleblower, a detector, cannot be fired. The big problem is that if a whistleblower comes into conflict with an employer, there will be a labour dispute after which dismissal will follow. That is why we have chosen this approach. Mrs Barth is also quite right that a political reality also requires choices. We are dealing with this political reality now. I can see that there is a discussion going on, including within the cabinet, about the relationship betweenzzp'ers and people with permanent jobs. From my political beliefs, I also have views on this, but here I am defending this law and we have made this choice. How that discussion is going to run will determine the future. But one thing is certain: this will play an important role in the evaluation. If this is a real problem and if there is political support for it, it can be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u147	Mr Van Raak talked about the more general discussion on the position ofzzp'ers and the future labour market. We are not actually talking about that at all; that is not what this is about. The question is whether, in addition to the protection of the worker within the meaning of the Civil Code and the addition which the applicants themselves place in the Civil Code, a passage, an article member, could have been included which states that clients should not be penalised by non-employment. Mr Van Raak isn't going to tell me that the House of Representatives wouldn't want that? So this is completely separate from the future discussion aboutzzp'ers. The point is that no one should be harmed by clients as a result of someone making a report. It's not settled now. The question is whether the House of Representatives is going to be so horribly upset if we fix that again because, shame, then we come to this whole political discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u148	It would be interesting to give the First Chamber the right of initiative; then we could see that. I have not found that there was a majority in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u149	May I ask Mr Van Raak to explain why there was no majority in favour of this. Did he make the proposal the way I just put it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u150	The initiators have come up with this initiative. That has not been without reason. The first step we have taken is to prevent people from being fired. The term "worker" has been chosen to prevent dismissal. Other disadvantages for the employee are also there, for example if you are bullied, if you are put in the basement or if you have to do other work. That's what it's all about. For thezzp'er, the trainee and the volunteer, advice, research and also treatment research is possible. That's what we're going to present to this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u151	But I have to say that there is no protection against disadvantage by the client.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u152	Mr De Graaf may conclude with Mr Köhler that this legal protection is of a different order. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u153	From another order? That legal protection is out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u154	No, he's not absent. There are a lot of things thatzzp'ers, when the House is there, can appeal to, where they can't do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u155	However, I fear that thiszzp'er will no longer be commissioned by the authority in question, but I hope it will be different. I have just shown forgiveness by joining Mrs Barth's words. I think I even made a compromise in my second term, namely by stating that, as soon as it becomes clear that this is a problem, several speakers here think that it is a problem and that we will soon come up with a repair. After all, this is not about the concept of employees or the big discussions that the cabinet is having that it is not about. We really should not involve these discussions, because then we will make things far too complicated. The question is: who is whistleblower and who deserves protection? That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u156	That's a fantastic handshake; that's gonna make my heart beat faster. When it comes to disadvantage ofzzp'ers, that can of course never have to do with another assignment. Mrs Bikker has a very big point. However, it may have to do with existing assignments. It's not settled now. If there are problems and if they can be repaired in the future, I am particularly happy to see that happen. With that we would helpzzp'ers, in whatever form. As far as the initiators are concerned, that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u157	I assume that the petitioner, like me, would like to hear about this from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u158	The Minister will undoubtedly have an opinion on this, but there is also a need for an opinion from a majority of the Lower House and the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u159	I assume that if a commitment is made in this house, including by the Minister, that is a commitment. We are not going to see if the House of Representatives will give its blessing on all the commitments that ministers make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u160	I take this hand-in-hand approach, but I do not know what the Minister thinks on behalf of the cabinet and what the various parties in the coalition think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u161	It is slowly getting dark, not only outside but, frankly, also in the debate. I can't tie a rope to it anymore. What is the approach that Mr Van Raak takes with both hands? Are these initiators going to do something now? Are they asking the Minister to do something? Is there going to be a repair, that is to say: is there going to be an additional provision that is mainly based on a ban on harm tozzp'ers, volunteers and trainees by clients? Or isn't there? Or does Mr Van Raak say that I hope it will happen at some point, but we will not do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u162	Let's see how big the problem is first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u163	So you're saying, "I'm not gonna do anything for a while"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u164	We're gonna see how big this problem is first. There's gonna be an evaluation. If the House is in action, we will see how big the problem is. Then there will have to be an amendment of the law. The different parties feel very differently about this. The parties that have taken this initiative do not share this view either. That discussion can be held in the Lower House and will be held in the Upper Chamber. If we're gonna settle this, we're gonna need a change of laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u165	The nice thing is that the spokesmen of the Labour Party, the Christian Union and D66 are all saying the same thing here. I know they are very different when it comes to the position ofzzp'ers, but not about this point. Then why do you keep saying that there are very different views? I think there are major majorities here. We want no one to be harmed as a result of reporting to the House for whistleblowers. Well, that's not taken care of right now. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u166	If it turns out that this is the case, if Mr De Graaf is right, I am the first to be particularly willing to table a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u167	The applicant shall start the evaluation every time. I don't think that's necessary. There will be a repair law, just because of my colleague Schouwenaar's spelling check. Then we can watch this very well. Then the first experiences with the House for whistleblowers are already known, given the speed with which these things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u168	Then I have a question about the repair law. I'm not a lawyer, but I think it's an abs. When you make a law, you start by defining the concepts you use in that law. In this bill for a House for whistleblowers, the first thing I was looking for was: what, according to the proposers, is a whistleblower? It simply doesn't say that, because the proposers jumped straight to the concept of employees. If you are going to make a repair law, start with the abc and define what is a whistleblower. Then define what legal protection gives you a whistleblower, in whatever capacity that whistleblower acts. I don't think it's that complicated. To be honest, I cannot imagine that there is even one party, across the street or here, who thinks it is undesirable for a volunteer not to be protected by legal protection if it sends a whistle-blower message. I just can't imagine it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u169	A whistleblower is defined by law as a "detector." As far as I am concerned, the hand that is offered is getting warmer, so please. If a majority in the Second and First Chamber wants the ban to be extended, I am very happy with that. If that's possible in a repair law, I'd be delighted. Then we will first have to consider whether that is a meaningful exercise in this Chamber and in the House of Representatives. If that's the case, I'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u170	The detector is defined as an "worker who." That's exactly where he gets the pinch. If it says not only "worker" but also other terms, you are already very upset.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u171	A whistleblower is someone who reports a social failure, such as corruption, boyfriendliness and a danger to public health, the environment or safety. In this sense, the term "whistleblower" is defined. I hear from this Chamber that there is a need for greater legal protection and an extension of the ban. I look at my fellow petitioners and I see that we are very open to this if there is a majority in the Second and First Chambers. We are also very open if this can be settled before the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u172	That's very nice. It's on the record. I would first like to know what the added value of this ban is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u173	A ban on harm is the ban on disadvantage as a result of the notification. For example, for someone with a permanent job, this is dismissal, but there can be all kinds of other forms of disadvantage. Forzzp'ers there may also be a disadvantage, but it will have to do with the assignment. It's different for volunteers. You have to look at it by category. But I can't make that law right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u174	I asked another question about it in the second term. I asked that the labour law added value of that ban be made more precise. Of course, someone can't be fired. You must be a good employer. A good employer will not dismiss a whistleblower who raises a real error. Where's the added value of that ban? What lost lawsuit would have been won by whistleblowers if that ban had already been in the law? We need to put that in a very precise legal form. In such a repair law it should also be done very precisely for volunteers andzzp'ers, because if you don't define it very precisely, it will not be helpful. You'd lose a lawsuit like that if you were a whistleblower.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u175	That ban on harm already applies when you go to an inspection, a supervisor or your own employer. So the ban on harm is very broad. That will be different by category. I can't help but repeat this. If you have a permanent job, that ban on harm will be different. For example, as a result of that notification, you cannot be demoted to work which makes no sense for you to do so. It requires case-law to see how this will work out in practice. In any case, it is legal that there will be a ban on harm. If we extend that ban, which I am very much in favour of, to other categories, such aszzp'ers, volunteers and interns, it will be a different kind of disadvantage for these categories. I look forward to it. I think it is a very positive development that the First Chamber says that there may be a majority in favour of extending the ban. Then I would very much like to see how this is in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u176	Then I have a more procedural request. I think it would be desirable if the authors of the vote in this Chamber would write a note next week about what they really want. Then they can talk in-house for a while. Maybe that's useful, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u177	I'd really like to do that. What we have in mind, however, is less important than what is possible in the Second and First Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u178	As chairman, may I take that up for a moment? You put forward an initiative proposal adopted by the House of Representatives. It's being treated here now. You must answer the questions of this Chamber and respond to what this Chamber thinks. Then you cannot refer to the House of Representatives. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u179	The chairman is absolutely right, but I am defending this law on behalf of the entire House of Representatives. In my view, this enlargement cannot be part of this law. That seems to me to be something for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u180	We didn't ask for a novelle on a novelle. By the way, you could have done that, but then you get a kind of Droste-effect. The question is whether the applicants can let us know in writing how they look at a repair law, which can be initiated either from the Lower House or from the Minister, but with some kind of support in the Lower House. You can do some research on that, too. In the vote next week, we will know what the intention is and what the possibilities are, and we will be able to take them into account in the context of our final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u181	Mrs. Barth, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u182	If the letter also elaborates on the further labour-legal added value of the ban, I can live well with it. We can ask to do this also forzzp'ers and volunteers, but I want to make sure that we don't ask for an empty shell. There's got to be something that really helps. If that ban is no more than the concept already contained in the Civil Code of being a good employer, I am not sure if it has that added value. I didn't hear the proposers say today in a legal way either. Then it may be that we are now very pleased with a commitment about volunteers andzzp'ers who ultimately yield nothing, because the ban on harm does not appear to be a more legally robust instrument than what is already in the Civil Code. I would be extremely grateful if that legal explanation could be given in writing again, so that the First Chamber can be convinced that it has meant something for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u183	I'd love to make that commitment. The latter is also important to us, so we will certainly do so. It seems important to me that this Chamber should vote next week, because the temporary Advisory Point Whistleblowers will cease to exist on 1 July of this year. We attach great importance to ensuring that the House has sufficient time to set up and to get to work. There should not be a gap in this respect. Apart from that, I'd like to admit that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u184	I'm glad to hear that, Mr Van Raak. You indicate that there will be a vote next week, but I also understand that you, as the spokesperson for the authors, have been given a serious request to reply once again in writing to the questions that have been expressly raised. I do not rule out the possibility that this might give rise to a third deadline. It's not my job to do that, but I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u185	Sure. The order of business is yours, Mr President. Mr De Graaf asked questions about the precise interpretation of the chairman and the directors. I have already indicated that I do not want to regulate this entirely by law and that there will be an administrative regulation. That is also being sent to the Minister of the Interior. We can watch, too. Mr De Graaf also asked a question about the concept of workers, but we have just had a lot of discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u186	Very briefly. There are two options for the detailed arrangements. On the one hand, this is an administrative regulation drawn up by the administration of the House itself and, therefore, not at all the Minister for the Interior nor the proposers either. Or it's a general measure based on Article 21 of the bill, with the possibility of backing both chambers. That's what that article says. It seems to me, because there has been so much discussion about this, that it is not a question of administrative regulations, but perhaps of a general measure. I would like this to be looked at again. I ask the Minister of the Interior to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u187	That's a question for the Minister. We have set out in great detail in the reply the tasks of the board members and of the chairman. We've gone a long way in that. We have also indicated when the president is interfering and what matters are for the opinion section and which are for the investigation section. I'm not gonna read it, but it's in the lyrics. That has happened quite extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u188	It is stated in the reply, but it is not in the rules, not in the law, not in the administrative regulations and not in a general measure, but that is true. There are more things in the reply, which Mr Van Raak himself says afterwards that they may need to be explained differently, so I think it would be better to just record.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u189	I can very well imagine that this story, in the response to any form, will end up in the administrative rules, otherwise we would not have presented it as such to the Chamber. If we had expected that other matters would be included in the administrative regulations, we would not have dared write it down in this way. We have gone quite far, also because there were more questions from the Chamber. We've been able to report these cases. Then I come to Mrs Fox's question. I said it in response to questions from Mrs Van Bijsterveld. She outlined the dilemma between the House's investigation and the prosecution's investigation very well. The cooperation protocols must therefore respond to this. I have every confidence that this will happen, because the College of Attorneys has also expressed its confidence in this. I think that's enough. Mr Köhler spoke about the press. Anyone can go to the press, even if the House is there for whistleblowers. You have the right to report, but you don't have to. No one's making you do that. If a reporter wants to go another way, he always can. Mrs Bikker asked about culture. I've already tried to point out that the House for whistleblowers must help bring about a cultural change. I am convinced that our discussion has so far done the same. I think it is very important that the evaluation should include the question of the extent to which the House has brought about this cultural change. Then we can also see if there are other things that are needed to promote this. If there were neglect within the House, there would be a role for the Minister. We have arranged this in such a way that the Minister will involve the House of Representatives in order to prevent the issue from being used to put pressure on the House. Mr Koffeman is right to say that there is a great deal to be said about implementation and that there is a start. The House for Whistleblowers is the start of a new process, better handling whistleblowers and solving abuses. We're all there. I hope that the House will be able to play an important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u190	I am afraid to say so, but I have not yet received an answer to my question on the cost-benefit analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u191	Apologies. I forgot again. We have not chosen to do so, because the amounts are not very large and because there is a more fundamental point. Whistleblowers are about a public interest. Whistleblowers often think about labour disputes, but they are essentially social abuses. We think it is very important to remove these social abuses from the shoulders of whistleblowers. We want to ensure that the whistleblower no longer has to go to the media or the courthouse and make sure that the abuses are resolved. No, we think that's a public interest. The same goes for the other side. The House is going to investigate social abuses or make research possible. It is not good, but it is not necessary to allow the organisations that are the subject of research to pay the costs of this. The amounts involved are relatively small. We do not think that is necessary and not proportionate. We think this is the responsibility of a public institution with public funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u192	What do you think of the fact that the Research Council Integrity Government is now doing so and indicates that it has educational added value? They are not very large amounts, but the matter will be on the board table one more time and it will have to be looked at again. Did the applicants take that into account in their considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u193	The Research Council has very different powers. The House will be given very different powers from the Research Council. That is why we do not think that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u194	Mr. Chairman. A few more important points. First, something about the House's physical location. We have an idyllic image of a detached brick building where cups of coffee and tea are made all day. I thought at some point, if that coffee and tea come over one more time, we're only gonna donate old genever for the whistleblowers. I also mention this point in response to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question, who is now getting so excited about the House that she is actually saying that we should have almost two. I still reserve the right to say that if we are going to decorate the House and look at the costs, for example, there must be only one coffee lady or coffee boy who gives the cups of coffee and tea all day long, and not necessarily two. We will have to organize it in such a way that the whistleblower does not feel like visiting the same body that had previously advised him. However, I would like to limit myself to that. Where that should be housed, in what space and so on, must really be considered more closely by the people who are setting it up right now. Then there's the important point of the relationship with the D.A.'s office. The bottomline is the commitment that I think it is a good idea to include that issue in the evaluation. That was also the specific question raised by Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I would like to add something to this, because I do not want to create a misunderstanding for the coming period. In my analysis, the initiative proposal, as it stands, made the concrete choice of saying: we give priority to the public prosecutor to do the work that has to be done. That means two things. A person who claims to be a whistleblower does not derive immunity from criminal proceedings for things that he himself has wronged. Conversely, it is also true that it cannot be the case that when the public prosecutor is interested in investigating a wrongdoing and that the criminality of it can be prevented by the statement: no, the public prosecutor must not start to do so, because that is what the House of whistleblowers has already started to do. This choice is clearly set out in the proposal for an initiative. Once again, the evaluation can always consider whether this leads to unacceptable consequences and whether it needs to be changed. Mrs Barth and Mr De Graaf asked for this. This is also the answer to Mr Schouwenaar's question as to whether I am prepared to raise the concerns of the VVD Group in the evaluation. I am happy to admit that I am prepared to do so. There are two points left. The first relates to the budget, including the question of passing on. I've heard the initiators. Honestly, I'm not personally convinced that you wouldn't be able to pass it on. We will have to look at it in the context of the cost picture. They are all small amounts, but I do not have 3 million to 4 million structuralally on the BZK budget, as I said. So the money will have to be found somewhere. It may contribute to that. That is also the answer to Mrs Vos' question. She put something else together for me just like I intended. As Minister of the Interior, I am not free to say in the First Chamber that I am going to solve it, possibly even on the basis of budget chapters other than mine. I do not immediately see how I can bring the whole problem of cover to my attention. I must therefore confine myself to saying that for the proposal that the Chamber can now accept, the budget will cover €400,000. I realise that this would give this House a lean, perhaps too lean, start to work on a structural basis. So there's a problem left. I undertake to make every effort to find a solution on the next occasion. Given the broad support in the House of Representatives and in view of the fact that the House of Lords is also represented in the House of Lords, apart from the remaining issues, I hope for the support of the Chambers. That's how I want to answer that question. The other remaining point concerns the ban on harm. A letter has been promised by the initiators. I would just like to add at the moment that this letter is about one half of the glass, namely the disadvantage and legal protection of whistleblowers. I would like to point out the other half of the glass, a half that is full anyway, namely that this initiative proposal regulates that anyone who works anywhere, whether as an employee or a volunteer, has access to the advisory function of the House for whistleblowers. That's a profit, because it's not right now. He also has access to research. He can therefore enter into a situation where a social disorder is being denounced. So that half of the glass is full. Then there's the other half left. This has just been promised by the initiator that he will return to it by letter. I would like to limit myself to that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u195	However, it has been mentioned side by side in the debate that it would be possible to look at this in the case of repair legislation. I understand that the Minister first of all puts this to the proposers. But I'd like to hear his opinion as an advisor to this Chamber on that. I'll make my other point right away too, Mr President, and we'll get it over with. In the answer about the relationship with the D.A., I really missed the important principle that you can't expect a whistleblower to get himself into trouble in a criminal investigation. In any case, I expect this to be reflected in the cooperation protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u196	That expectation is justified. It is also mentioned in Article 13 (6) of the Act and specifically for the public sector in Article 10 (2). So that's the point. Then I'll come back to that repair bill. I want to be reluctant about that. There's an initiative bill in front of it. I'm willing to fix any flaws, let me just call it rude. If, for example, everyone agrees that it is not the intention to report to the employer in the absence of research, I am happy to get that to me and I will fix it as soon as possible. This also applies to even smaller errors that may have crept into the text somewhere. But the ban on harm is a matter of substance, which is not entirely trivial. It raises the question of what exactly are the rights of a volunteer working somewhere in an organisation and what exactly is there to protect. For whatever reason, reference has been made to the Civil Code or civil law for that part of the law. You can find a lot of that, but that is the initiative proposal that is now before you. I do not regard it as a minor repair which I can unilaterally commit to during the examination of this initiative proposal in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u197	But let's say that it leads to fundamental problems, which cause problems for a certain category for which the whole concept has been stretched out. Let's say thatzzp'ers for whom the glass is half full, as the minister said, knock on the door at the House for whistleblowers but that the first three all see their assignment stopped immediately because they do not find protection. What if a volunteer at a football club can never be a steward again? I would expect the Minister of the Interior not to wait for the evaluation, but to see at that moment what that half-full glass actually means and whether it is actually not completely empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u198	Mrs. Van Bijsterveld, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u199	I understand very well that the Minister does not want to deal directly with the question of a possible split or any other establishment of the House. However, my question was whether he specifically included the structures in the evaluation, in particular the point we discussed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u200	May I ask the Minister to answer Mrs Bikker's questions first? I thought both sets of questions would come together, but that didn't turn out to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u201	Mrs Bikker now mentions the stewards at the football fields. That illustrates exactly that it is not a trivial subject. If she asks me, as Minister of the Interior, in dealing with the novelle on an initiative law in the First Chamber, to say that I am going to repair the fact that the interests of stewards in football fields will now be protected, I would like to add that it is obvious that it is not a minor repair of the present law. I have to record that with my colleagues in the cabinet. It's got a lot of feet in the earth. I note that this law does two things. On the one hand, the law protects the jobs of people who work somewhere, are employed, defined according to civil service law or according to the WW. Apparently, that's what the law's about. You can find anything you want, but that's what's in front of you right now. On the other hand, this law opens up the entire process of whistleblowering, both advice and research, to anyone who has worked anywhere, whether in employment or not. That's what's in store right now. On the question of interests, the initiators will send another letter. For now, I would like to confine myself to this answer. The commitment I made to a repair law really relates to the technical repairs. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked a question about the split. I believe that it has now been made clear by the initiators that there must be a separation in substance, and that seems to me to be sufficient. That is the intended split that has been made. He wasn't there, and he's here now. That's what I've been calling for myself. For that reason, I also advised against the previous version of the bill. I think that division is now satisfactory. How exactly you're going to organize it spatially and how you're going to do it with the support, whether there's one ICT department or whether it should be two, I think it's just verse two. I would still like to give the quartermasters the room to fill that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u202	That wasn't my question. My question was whether, in the light of the discussion, the Minister is indeed taking into account the question of the functioning of this governance structure in the evaluation, not just that split.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u203	Yeah, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u204	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. I know there's gonna be another letter, but I still have to ask. Would any of the members like to vote on bill 33258, the original bill Wet Huis voor bellblowers? That's the case. I propose that we vote on this next Tuesday. Would any of the Members like to vote on bill 34105, the novelle Wet Huis voor bellblowers? That is also the case. Then I suggest that we vote on this bill next week as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-eerstekamer-6.u205	In any case, a letter from the initiators will be sent to the votes next Tuesday in response to the questions put.
