ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday our Prime Minister spoke at a conference with representatives of the people from all over Europe. The Prime Minister has made a number of remarkable statements there. First of all, he mentioned the outcome of the referendum on 6 April as disastrous. For me, this cabinet position was new and, above all, rather strange. I understand the frustration of the Prime Minister, who is very upset with the result of the referendum, but who is going to sit on his hands first, who is going to sit quietly in a corner, who is reluctantly running a liver tear campaign when something disastrous is about to happen? My questions to the Prime Minister are therefore the following. Why is the Prime Minister suddenly bringing this up? Why after so many warnings and after so many warnings only this insight? Why didn't the cabinet do much more when it could, when it was still possible, when the campaign was still in the process of averting this disastrous outcome? Does the Prime Minister believe that the cabinet has been strategically screwed up as in the 2005 referendum on the European Constitution? What lesson does the Prime Minister draw from this? The question arises as to what all those who voted against on 6 April should now think. Can they assume that the Prime Minister will do justice to the outcome that lies ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Verhoeven, the cabinet was fully involved in the campaign prior to 6 April, the date of the referendum. It is clear that I and the cabinet do not like the outcome, namely that a majority of the people who have emerged have said that they do not recommend ratifying the association agreement with Ukraine, but that result is there. The fact is that the cabinet is now looking for a solution; it is doing so with its partners in Europe. We also talk about it in the Netherlands, of course. Why is this complex? This is complex because it doesn't take place in isolation. It is complex because it is a referendum on a multilateral treaty. That makes it very complicated anyway. After all, you cannot ban other countries from going through with it as one country. They will, if we say no, come up with something to be able to go on with it in full or in large part. It is also complex, because you still want to try to express the dissatisfaction that emerged in the campaign on many points. It is also complex, because there is a lot going on in Europe at the moment. I refer to the referendum in the United Kingdom, the major issue of migration, the relationship with Russia and the threat of terrorism in Europe. So there is a lot going on at the moment and we must try to deal with the outcome of the referendum in the middle of that complex playing field in a sensible way. We're working hard on this. Finally, if we can do that, we will come up with a proposal for ratification. If it does not work, we will come up with a proposal not to ratify.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u4	In any case, the latter is something that the Prime Minister does not rule out. But is it credible for the Prime Minister to say that now when he said something else yesterday? He also said yesterday that he is completely opposed to referenda. In fact, as if that weren't bad enough, he said: I am totally, totally, totally against referenda on international treaties. That second piece he also said in English, but I only translate it for the people at home. When I heard that, my mouth really fell open with amazement, because a Prime Minister knows that better than anyone who, of course, speaks on behalf of the government and says he is against the law, is quite a strange figure, a very strange situation. It is a law which was introduced during his own presidency and which was given the counter-sign of his cabinet. So yesterday, the Prime Minister representing the Netherlands stood before an audience of international parliamentarians. There was not Mark Rutte with some personal opinion and not the VVD-foreman Rutte who is announcing a VVD-story in the run-up to a campaign in 2017, which he does take seriously. Why did the Prime Minister make this strange statement, especially in the light of what he said before about the referendum and taking the outcome seriously? Why does he speak out against his own legislation, against the law co-signed by the cabinet? Or is this the new cabinet policy? For example, what does the Minister of the Interior, Minister Plasterk of the PvdA, think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u5	It wasn't a cabinet law. It was an initiative of the Chamber that the cabinet found something of. We have said that the cabinet cannot block it if there is a majority, but I have always made it clear to my party and myself that I am against referendums. I'm not gonna talk to flour in the mouth. I was against referendums and I am against referendums. I don't believe in D66's hat-and-hat discussion. If I find anything, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u6	Now the Prime Minister repeats, while he stands here and can simply state that it is very strange that a Prime Minister speaking on behalf of his country to an audience of international representatives, for just a moment, that he is opposed to referenda instead of using the opportunity to say that it is simply a clumsy or even wrong statement and that you cannot make this on behalf of the country as Prime Minister. It's about whether this is government policy. Is this the cabinet's position now? Is the cabinet against the law that was introduced a year ago that allows referenda? So my question to the Prime Minister is actually very simple. He can say here that he doesn't believe in the hats and hats of D66. It's called state law; that's pretty important. Is he taking back the verdict he made yesterday? Does he take the referendum seriously according to the law he does not support? And more importantly, does he take the results seriously? In the next nine months, is he gonna take better care of his words? Otherwise we stand here every week discussing a personal opinion of Mark Rutte and there is no voter in this country interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u7	You can see that D66 is now 50; what an old politics! I have always said in the campaign in the run-up to the referendum that I do not like such a referendum at all, that there was an initiative from the Chamber that got a majority that we have to work with it. We are. That is why the campaign took place and we are now trying to give the results a place in a decent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u8	The fact that the Prime Minister is against referendums is now clear after all that misapprehension yesterday, but he has also shown himself to be a very sour loser by ignoring the 61% result and not even coming up with a substantive response. He did come up with a response yesterday to the EU MEPs. I think that's a little arrogant. I'm asking the Prime Minister to respond to that. I keep hearing the story that Brexit is so important. Of course, that is important, but can the Prime Minister also give us an open mind on which direction he is going after Brexit? What will the Prime Minister do in his wisdom with the 61% result if Brexit is a fact on 23 June?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u9	We had a whole debate on this one week after the referendum. I said at that time that it was clear that a large majority of the elected representatives, even when it comes to achieving the electoral threshold laid down in the law, were opposed. This means that the chance is very real that the Netherlands does not ratify. At the same time, in that debate, I also argued that this is a multilateral treaty and that it is still a question of what is happening in the rest of Europe. You cannot say yes or no to a multilateral treaty in a referendum as the Netherlands. The country can say 'we do not ratify' but other countries can still find forms to go on. So we don't know how that ends. I said at the time: let us see if there is an intelligent way to give a different place to the grievances that have emerged in the discussions in the upcoming referendum. That's what we're working on right now. If that succeeds, the cabinet will come up with a proposal to ratify, and if it does not, we will come up with the proposal not to ratify. This will take some time, because then you will have to talk to all colleagues in Europe and to the Commission. Of course, we will also be in contact with Ukraine. You also look at political relations in your own country and social relations. That is a complicated process, and that is all the more complicated, and that is why I used that force term yesterday because we are doing so against the backdrop of major geopolitical issues in Europe concerning migration, terror and the referendum in the United Kingdom. Furthermore, there is the whole issue of relations with Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u10	We have heard that whole story many times, but the word "intelligent" is an interesting addition. As far as PVV is concerned, there is only one intelligent solution, and that is to implement the intelligent law we have, and in particular the intelligent article 11. Now I understand from the Prime Minister that this is not intelligent enough for his taste. Apparently, he has an even more intelligent solution than the law. Is that what the Prime Minister means? So he's putting himself above the law here, because he actually knows better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u11	Let me tell you about the interview I had with Jan Roos after the debate here. He said, "No is no, isn't it? That was an interview here outside the door. I said yes, Jan, that's right, no is no, you can look at it that way, but the only point is that it's not about the choice between the old flag and the new flag, like in New Zealand, where you can make a national decision. This is a complex issue, and the other 27 Member States will also agree if we do not ratify and possibly decide to proceed in any form. Is that the desired answer to the no that came out of the referendum? I think we should look at the many grievances. I have mentioned that it is not a question of accession, as is the whole issue of collective defence. All kinds of things have occurred in the weeks preceding April 6th. Can we address it in another way? If that succeeds, I think you will do much more in terms of content with the criticism that emerged in the run-up to the referendum. If that fails, then the fallback position will be self-evident not to ratify. Once again, it is not simply that the matter is not going to happen, I say to Mr Beertema. Then the Netherlands does not ratify, but then you still run a big chance that the other countries will continue in any form with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u12	I am beginning to wonder how many mistakes this Prime Minister and this cabinet still have to accumulate in relation to the referendum and, in particular, the Ukraine referendum. Before that, a half-hearted attitude was taken. This led to the ruling in the Netherlands that the Ten Broeke campaign was still working, but that the Rutte campaign was nothing. The Prime Minister, through his half-hearted attitude to this referendum, has not even been able to convince his own electorate in a majority to be in favour. He is now publicly in his shirt in Europe. What does this do with the negotiating position of the Prime Minister in Europe? Isn't the signal he's sending right now: yes, I'm standing here, but it was actually a robbery and a bad rash and I don't want to do this at all, so it might be good if I get beat up in a European context? Isn't that actually the signal the Prime Minister gave here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u13	It is a classic journalistic trick, as I experienced in the eighties, namely to stack ten bullshit points together and then to put a question to it. I now need an hour to refute all Mr Grashoff's claims, because none of them are correct. Let me be very brief. The fact is that there is a result, that the number of voters was sufficient to reach the threshold and that a convincing majority of the elected voters say: we do not want this to happen. Now we face a simple question. If we are to accept this result directly, then my point is that those who opposed it could be very disappointed if it turns out that other countries continue in any form. Is that what they wanted? In the debate, a week after the referendum, I also argued that the question is: or will we try to address the many grievances mentioned by the opponents in a different way? I don't know if that's gonna work. We're working hard on that. If that succeeds, I think we are doing more with that contradiction than simply not ratifying it. That's my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u14	The essence of my question is not addressed by the Prime Minister. That is: what does this Prime Minister's statement do with the negotiating position of the Netherlands? Let me be clear: in this way, I believe that the Prime Minister is significantly worsening the negotiating position of the Netherlands in Europe, because he clearly indicates that he has actually been sent a message that he himself does not support. This does not normally help to argue the case of the Netherlands in a convincing way, however it may be. That's what the Prime Minister should stand for, and he doesn't do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u15	In Brussels some people speak Dutch and there are good translation departments. In my view, it is well known that the Dutch cabinet was in favour of the association agreement with Ukraine. Of course, we are not happy with the result, but the result is a fact. We accept that, and we are looking for a sensible way of dealing with that result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u16	In his statement, the Prime Minister has tried to undermine the possibility of holding a referendum. In this sense, his statement was disastrous, also for democracy, which we are shaping here with laws on how we can express the opinion of citizens. The question is whether the Prime Minister's comment on multilateral treaties, international treaties involving more countries, meant to say that the referendum law should actually be amended so that multilateral treaties are no longer referendable and in future a referendum on, for example, the TTIP Free Trade Agreement with America cannot be held. Was that the Prime Minister's plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u17	With the terms of force I've used, I've tried to demonstrate the complexity. We are dealing with a referendum on a multilateral treaty. Such a referendum is, of course, much more complex than, for example, the New Zealand referendum on the flag. You can choose between two and then there will be a clear result. That's what New Zealand's about. This is much more complicated. If we follow directly the opinion that came out of the consultative referendum, namely not ratifying, then my discussion with Jan Roos after the debate on the subject is still very likely that the other European countries will continue in any form. Then my big question is to the opponents of the association agreement whether that is what they intended with their no vote. Another option is to look at the points of criticism that emerged in the referendum. Can we address that? Is it possible to agree in Europe, which means that we are doing much more justice to that no vote in substance than we are doing, and that is the paradox of doing so simply by saying yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u18	Yesterday, the Prime Minister was at last clear about the referendum. After months of waiting for what he actually meant, after months of talking with all European countries and with Ukraine, he chose the audience of European representatives, in which I was also present and wherever he answered questions, to make a clear statement. When will the Prime Minister make a clear statement to the Dutch people about what he will do with the outcome of the referendum? The law states that the Dutch Government must take a decision soon after the result of the referendum. Will he please bear in mind that he said before the referendum that this association agreement is not an accession treaty? This can hardly therefore be seen as a concession towards the Dutch population. What's the government gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u19	Yesterday, in the presence of Mr Omtzigt, I repeated what I also said in the debate in the Chamber following the outcome of the referendum, namely that the cabinet is now faced with the task of responding as wisely as possible to the 'no' vote. Failure to ratify is still a very real option. However, we would also like to look at the substance of the response to the dissatisfaction about this association agreement that emerged during the weeks of discussion and debate in society in the run-up to the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u20	The Prime Minister said in several debates that he is committed to regaining the confidence of citizens in politics and that he is concerned about the growing gap between citizens and politics. How does that relate to the Prime Minister's remark yesterday that the outcome of the referendum is ridiculous and disastrous and that we cannot really do anything with it? Surely that's nothing but the insulting of the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u21	It wasn't like that yesterday. I have said that we are now dealing with an extremely complex situation, because the referendum was not about a national matter, but in its nature it is very complex, because it concerns many other countries as well. So you cannot simply say yes or no to that. You can do that, but then you run the risk of this paradox. I would like to point out to Mrs Thieme that the electorate is far more dissatisfied than we are trying to find a sensible way out. The voter who emerged thinks 'hey, there is no ratification', while it turns out that other countries in some form simply continue with each other. We cannot block that. In the debate in the Chamber following the outcome of the referendum, I told Mrs Thieme and others that, in my view, this is feeding the voter's cynicism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u22	If the Prime Minister is serious about the complexity of the situation and the matter, it is not appropriate for him yesterday to address a complex problem in popular terms such as 'desastrous' and 'ridiculous'. Then as Prime Minister, he should be reluctant and first inform the Parliament with a comprehensive cabinet response on how this referendum is handled. He shouldn't have tried yesterday to get his right through all kinds of VVD rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u23	Yesterday, on how we deal with the content of the outcome of the referendum, I reiterated what I said in the debate in the Chamber and what Minister Koenders wrote in the letter prior to the debate in the Chamber, namely that we are now faced with the question of how we deal with the outcome, but that this is extremely complex. This does not take place in isolation, but in the context of a large number of major geopolitical developments. Moreover, it is a referendum on a matter which is not only national but is, in its nature, multilateral, i.e. concerns several countries. That makes it extremely complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u24	Apart from the situation around and the outcome of the referendum on 6 April, I would like to comment on something very interesting which the Prime Minister said about the referendum law currently in force, namely that it is 'total, total, total' for multilateral treaties. Are those empty words, or does this mean that the cabinet will actually put forward a bill to give substance to an amendment to the referendum law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u25	We have always said that we want to work first to provide the best possible response to the outcome of the referendum. That can't be ratification. We are currently examining whether there is a possible route in which we can give a place to the grievances that emerged in the campaign. How we proceed with the referendum law and whether there should be any adjustments are all provided for in the law itself. An evaluation of this referendum is foreseen. Before the end of the summer, the Cabinet will respond to what the Election Council said about this particular referendum. The law provides for an evaluation of the referendum law, out of my mind in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u26	I therefore have to conclude that the Prime Minister will not make any proposals to amend the referendum law on multilateral treaties. So he has spoken completely out of turn because he is still waiting for the evaluation we have agreed to. The amendment of the referendum law is therefore not really a matter for discussion and multilateral treaties can therefore also be the subject of a referendum. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u27	No, my ruling on the multilateral treaties had nothing to do with a possible proposal to change the law. It had to do with a referendum on a multilateral treaty. This makes it extra complex to formulate a sensible response to the outcome of the referendum. In my opinion, simply a yes or no is not enough. Maybe we should eventually, but we want to try to give substance to the grievances that have emerged in the weeks preceding the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u28	I have listened to the Prime Minister's answers to the questions of all the other colleagues. It is very important: it is all very complex geopolitically, there are international treaties and that is why it is disastrous for the future of Europe. So the Prime Minister is standing here explaining things to Members of Parliament, but yesterday, of course, the story was very different. So I just have this question: was Mark Rutte at that meeting yesterday speaking with some hollow rhetoric as a VVD foreman taking a run at the VVD campaign, or did he make his statement as Prime Minister of the whole of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u29	I've already answered the question. I'm always the same person. If I have spoken several times about what I think of the concept of referenda in the run-up to such a referendum, then I will not run away from it. Then I'm not going to dive for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-2.u30	I thank the Prime Minister for coming to the Chamber.
