ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u1	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their second term contribution. I will be very brief, even at your request. In spite of differences of opinion, which exist on all kinds of foreign policy elements, I also feel that there is a similar balance in finding realism and moralism, as it is called, a foreign policy based on values but without naivety, realizing that geopolitical vacation is really over. I feel that we have had a good debate on this. I would particularly like to thank you, Mr Van Bommel, for this is the last debate for you. We have had a great opportunity to work together for years as MPs. I would also like to thank you on behalf of the government for your great commitment in the field of foreign policy and for the content of your contributions to the debates. It was always of great quality. Thank you for that. Undoubtedly, that is a shared vision. You will be missed, but I am sure you will be able to use your great experience elsewhere in society. Then I come to the first point: a question from Mr Van Bommel. Fortunately, I can take that in a positive light. This concerns the role of parliamentarians, in particular those of HDP in Turkish prisons. It is a credit to Mr Van Bommel that he has stood up for them at all times, just like many Members of Parliament. We have enormous concerns about the arrests of 13 HDP MPs. The lifting of immunity is a cause for great concern. That is also what we have put forward together with the High Representative. At the moment, we are active through declarations and feel the need to maintain unanimity. The embassy is also closely involved in sending a signal. We are now also committed to monitoring these processes. This also applies to journalists and human rights activists, of course on the basis of the principles of justice, democracy, proportionality and human rights. There is also an important role for the Council of Europe in these detentions. I shall come back to that in a moment on a motion by Mr Van Bommel. I can already say, also in the direction of Mr Knops, that the publication of the reports of the Anti-Torture Committee is extremely important. We will do our utmost to ensure that this is done. Mr Van Bommel asked whether the government supports an international ban on nuclear weapons. Let there be no misunderstanding: the Netherlands will participate in the substantive discussions on the nuclear weapons ban treaty. That is what we have promised here. That was also requested in that motion. In doing so, we are also implementing the Sjoerdsma motion. We will commit ourselves to a verifiable nuclear weapons ban. We don't sign blind. We are taking part in these negotiations. The chances of success are greatest if you also ensure that nuclear-possessing states participate. That's what we're gonna try. I think it is important that we refer to Article 6 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The exact modality with which the Netherlands will start such negotiations in March 2017, as well as the conditions for the acceptance of a final result, are still under consideration. Perhaps Mr Van Bommel is just experiencing that we can inform him about this. A question has been asked about the financing of a Danish mosque by the Qatar Embassy. This theme is recognizable by the cabinet. We've talked about that before. The Qatar Embassy in The Hague is also responsible for Denmark. This issue is in this capacity and is primarily a matter between Denmark and Qatar. The Danish colleagues have informed us that there are no criminal investigations against this mosque. The fuss about this mosque is directed against anti-integrative behavior. Something similar has been said before in the Netherlands. We also know this behavior in the Netherlands. The Chamber will receive a letter on this matter. I have to correct myself, because I thought that letter had already been sent today, but it will be sent tomorrow or Monday at the latest. It will provide further information. A number of Members have asked questions to further elaborate on the discussion we held in the first term on the role of Turkey and the Ottoman aspect. I think I have already answered those questions. The same applies to questions concerning the need for enhanced cooperation between the European intelligence services. In addition to the information already provided in the written reply, I do not have any additional information on individual cases, as I say to Mr Sjoerdsma. I shall now deal with the various motions and amendments. I assume that the request from Mr Van Bommel's motion to item No. 19 is also addressed to the Chamber itself. After all, the Chamber can itself ask the International Affairs Advisory Council for its opinion. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I think that's the way it's supposed to be. In his motion in part No. 20 calls on Mr Van Bommel to suspend negotiations on Turkey's accession to the EU. I'm deceiving that motion. There are a number of important points in it, but I have already indicated this morning that we are very active in a number of areas in order to keep a number of channels open. We think it is too early to reach final or even suspensive conclusions. I indicated that I had talks with Jagland and that the Venice Commission is leaving today. We are also working on decrees together with the Council of Europe and the Minister of Justice. It is also possible to take interim measures, such as association councils, directly with Turkey. As far as the CPT is concerned, I think it is important for this to be assessed by the public. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber later. I also refer to the many requests from the opposition in Turkey not to do so yet. I mentioned the newspaper Cumhuriyet and a number of people who were in the media this morning. We are dealing with a hard line, let there be no misunderstanding about the suspension of IPA II funds. I also mention the red line of the death penalty. In any case, these are a number of reasonings that have emerged in the debate. I therefore advise against the motion. I come to the Van Bommel motion on part No. 21 on the suspension of arms supplies to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u3	I have a question for the Minister on the Van Bommel motion to item No. 20. That question is relevant to the voting behaviour of my group. The motion refers to the suspension of negotiations. I have been told that the concept of suspension in the context of European negotiations has a very specific meaning, including procedural and procedural. If you wanted to restart these negotiations afterwards, all the Member States would have to accept them again. That would make it impossible to renegotiate. Is that right? Should a difference be made between the term "sustaining" as used in everyday language, in the sense of "silent hedges," and in the way you use it in the formal language?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr Grashoff raises an important point. The term "suspension" or "freeze" in itself has no legal meaning in the European Union. Of course, you can decide to do that, but then you have to be aware that if you want to renegotiate then there are other decision-making mechanisms. That's right. The motion refers to'suspension', but the European Parliament's opinion refers to 'freeze' and mentions a certain period of time. That's something else, too. It is true that many principles of the rule of law and democracy are at issue, but that is precisely where, even in the motion of Parliament, we first look at what should be done to investigate it. The wording has been chosen awkwardly, but apart from that, I would like to discourage the motion because we are still taking a number of steps to keep that communication open, in a very critical way. The Van Bommel motion in part No. 21 is about suspending arms supplies to Turkey. I'd like to discourage that motion, too. Applications for export licences for arms for Turkey shall be assessed in accordance with the eight criteria set out in the common position. This includes risks to human rights or internal and international conflicts. That's what I'm weighing on. We've also stopped a number of weapons supplies. We test very critically, partly in response to recent developments. That's what we do with other countries. The Netherlands is not in favour of combating all arms supplies, i.e. an embargo against Turkey as a NATO ally. Then there is the Van Bommel motion on part No. 22 on the recognition of the Palestinian State. I have to disappoint him tremendously on this point. I know, but I appreciate that he filed this motion. I hope he sees that this minister is not an opponent of recognition either. I know that we differ on the point of the strategic moment. As far as I am concerned, given the first-term debate, that has not yet arrived. It will be, but I am afraid that at least at this moment I must discourage this motion. That does not apply to the Knops motion in part No. 23. I think it is important to call for the CPT report to be included in the Commission's progress report. This is one of the things that I really think is important for the next month, if we continue to look at the relationship with Turkey. Let me add that we are really relying on the benchmark itself. This is not a 73rd benchmark, that's not how I read the motion. But I do understand Mr Knops' point that in the visa liberalisation process the Commission should be able to use all the relevant information. Then the motion Servaes c.s. in piece No. 24 on ratification of the optional protocol to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I will have to take this to the Cabinet because we do not yet have a final judgment on this. However, the importance of what is stated here is clear. There are a number of legal elements that need to be weighed. That's why it took some time. We need to see to what extent this is acceptable. This motion calls on us, after I have already said a, to give up or give up in the month of December. In that light, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. As regards the Servaes/Christmas motion in part No. 25 I would like to point out in general that, because of the good dialogue we have with Qatar on a large number of points, we are really doing important work with them when it comes to financing, but also when it comes to working conditions. I would like to underline that. Nevertheless, I consider this motion to be important. I would like to say that the complaint case has already been dealt with. This case is now being dealt with by the ILO Management Board, of which the Netherlands is an alternate member. We are therefore closely involved. In this sense, connecting is really no longer necessary. As far as the civil case of the FNV is concerned, I would like to cooperate in the manner stated in the motion. I leave the motion as a whole to judge the Chamber. I have a sympathy for it, to put it this way. The motion-De Roon/Wilders in part No. 26 is about moving the embassy from Ten Aviv to Jerusalem. I'd like to advise against that motion. Mr De Roon reports this every year, and every year I indicate that return for the Netherlands will only be possible after there is a comprehensive peace agreement, with a solution for Jerusalem, including clarity about the borders. Then there's the De Roon motion to part No. 28 calling for a halt to relations with the Palestinian territories. I said earlier that, precisely because of our relationship with both sides, we are investing in a good approach to the MOVP. In doing so, we are contributing to the construction of a viable Palestinian state. The withdrawal of this support would be counterproductive. I must therefore discourage this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 29. RNW does indeed contribute to the freedom of opinion-forming in a number of important regions that have been discussed today. This broadcaster is also successful in this, with millions of visitors. This contribution has already been considerably reduced, from 56 million to 34 million. This phase-out also makes sense, given the history of the organization. After 2020, the RNW is an ordinary non-governmental organisation. Then I come to the motion on part No. 30. I understand Mr Sjoerdsma's concerns about Russian influence, aimed at weakening and breaking up the European Union. That is precisely why we have also taken the lead in EU measures to increase resilience against Russian disinformation, for example by strengthening strategic communication within the EEAS, and by supporting independent Russian-speaking media. As contained in the public annual report of the AIVD, Russian influence has the attention of our services. I cannot make any further public statements on the precise use of the services. The Chamber shall be informed by appropriate channels. This also applies to the possible exchange of information with other services. As stated in the written reply, the Cabinet currently has no knowledge of concrete data or facts concerning active influence or financial support to political parties in the Netherlands from Russia. There are therefore no facts against which action should be taken at the moment. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Then the motion to part No. 31. That's a tough one. I do have sympathy for it, given the importance of economic diplomacy and ports, but in order to be able to judge it properly, I really need to discuss it with colleagues from I and M and EZ first. I am, of course, very willing to inform Mr Sjoerdsma of this before the votes. I hear he's okay with that. The subject of the motion in part No. 32 has been discussed by the Chamber before. I do not need to speak about the substance of the position. I have listened very carefully, including Mr Servaes' impressive contribution on this point. I shall leave this motion to the House's discretion. The motion in part No. 33 I declare superfluous because we have written a letter to the House of Representatives on this subject. I also disagree with a number of considerations. I have just given the Chamber a number of figures, but apart from that, it has already been discussed in a letter which has been further discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u5	What's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u6	The verdict is: dissuade. Apologies, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 34 I would also advise against. It is not governments but companies that buy gas for several countries. The solution lies not in steering action in the gas market, but in persistent energy transition and diversification policies, as soon as possible. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the government's policy. We disagree on this, but in that sense I would like to discourage the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 35 by Mr Grashoff. I'll make him a suggestion, but I don't know if he agrees. I think it is an important subject. This discussion is also actively inspired by the Netherlands in Geneva. We are playing an active role in the debate on autonomous weapons. It is true that there are all kinds of elements attached to it that we need to look carefully at. At present, we are not in favour of a moratorium on further developments, but we reject the development and deployment of fully autonomous weapons without meaningful human control. In the organisation of the work, we are not ready to start any restrictions at this stage. We would therefore anticipate a conclusion. If Mr Grashoff were to turn the operative part into 'control of the production and use of autonomous weapons', I could leave it to the Court to decide. If the word'restrictive', which I consider premature at the moment, remains in place, I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u7	I'm gonna think about that. I cannot judge this very quickly, but I will think about it, with this answer in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u8	You have until Tuesday to think about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Grashoff. The motion in part No. 36 I would advise against. I think I made it clear that the cabinet does not finance any activities that BDS propagate against Israel. The argument for BDS is in itself within the scope of freedom of expression. In my opinion, the motion is very complicated and subjective and will lead to an endlessly recurring discussion of the extent to which an organisation is or is not against the government's objective. I think we really need to get back to the core: The Netherlands does not subsidise activities that BDS propagate against Israel. Nor do we want to restrict freedom of expression on a non-criminal offence or violation of human rights. I must therefore discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 37 is about protecting human rights defenders in the framework of the Criminal Court. I like this motion, but I still have to dissuade her because of the operative part. Of course, we stand up for those human rights defenders. As the Chamber knows, I have informed the Chamber about this. I don't want to have to keep the Chamber confidential every time there's something going on. We cannot do that in all kinds of cases. That goes far too far, but I will at least admit that we are going to do and strengthen the first part of this motion. I support the motion in part No. Mr Kuzu on the position of the Rohingyas. I think that's a good motion. There's a serious problem with the Rohingyas. I have also visited the area myself, and today we have again received reports of the serious situation on the ground. There is also tension with Bangladesh now. Anyway, there's a lot going on. That means I think this is an important motion. So I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 39 on excuses for the history of slavery, I must advise against. As is well known, the then Dutch government has already expressed deep regret about the past of Dutch slavery. Later governments have repeated this on several occasions. This cabinet and myself take the same position. In that sense, we consider the motion superfluous. We know that slavery is a very regrettable and sad part of our history. We must do everything we can to ensure that the horrors of the past of slavery are never forgotten or repeated. That's what the Cabinet is committed to. I spoke with the leaders in the Caribbean not long ago. With regard to the motion in part No. I refer to Mr Bontes' motion for a resolution on this point. Final end goes one step further and is completely irreversible. You can only play that card once. It's counterproductive. I would therefore advise against this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 41. The government doesn't finance the PFLP. The government also has no evidence that Al-Haq, Addameer or other human rights organisations supported by the Netherlands are guilty of terrorism or terrorism support. I would advise against that motion. I now turn to the amendments tabled, first of all to the amendment on item No. 8 by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij to re-allocate 1 million within the Human Rights Fund. As has already been said, I agree with the importance of these reconciliation projects, particularly at this time of political impasse. The cabinet is therefore making structural efforts to strengthen moderate forces on both sides. On the basis of the previous amendment, for 2015-2016, substantial support is already being given. Sometimes it is difficult to identify quality projects. We're gonna keep doing that. I see, as I say again, the one million we are talking about here as a good thing. It is a target amount for which I will do my utmost. I imagine part of the spending goes over 2017, but we're gonna try. I therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I come to the amendment tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Bommel on an increase in expenditure on the Human Rights Fund by 10 million. The request is to add 10 million to the Human Rights Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u10	This is the amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u11	Yes. The proposed coverage was found in the HGIS post (Homogenic International Cooperation Group) "Nominal and unforeseen'. I advise against this amendment because of the cover. The item "Nominal and unforeseen" is not part of the State budget. It's money from all the HGIS departments. So I can't decide on how to spend it on my own. There is no room for this article either. In 2017, only money is reserved for the necessary wage and price adjustment. I come to the amendment to item No. 13. I must advise against this amendment. There is already maximum use on the services provided to Dutch people abroad. A lot has been set in motion. I have mentioned a large number of points. The possibility of applying for a DigiD abroad is increased, in cooperation with the Tax Administration, the SVB and the BZK. At 22 representations, letter polls will be set up for the upcoming parliamentary elections, especially for Dutch people without the internet and postal facilities abroad. In addition, as I say with all due respect, the coverage in the amendment is not good. It is not technically possible to wait for an amendment to be completed until the next spring note. It is now necessary to indicate a feasible coverage. The cover proposal is sympathetic. I understand it all too well, but the measures require a lot of coordination with other departments. Trade unions and works councils are also involved, because this is a question of compensation. It is therefore more for a future cabinet formation. I must therefore advise against this amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 42. That's about 1.5 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u12	Before you go any further, Mr Sjoerdsma has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u13	The Minister is now talking about inadequate cover again. That cover comes from a steel map from the Ministry of Finance. I think there's a sleeve that can be adjusted. I'd like to give the Minister a consideration. Maybe he should chew on it. I understand, of course, that these are budgets from other ministries as well. That'll make it a little harder. But chew it again. Perhaps the Ministry of Finance could look again at the budgets of the other ministries. I understand it takes time. The Minister said that there are collective agreements attached to it. I can understand why you can't change it from one day to the next. That must be a careful process. But I think it is best possible to do it in 2017. My amendment sees a structural increase of 6 million. I only use $4 million of that. Then for next year you could raise 2 million out of the amount for next year. Then the Minister will have the time to settle it properly, and I think it is right for him to ask that, but we can do this already. That seems necessary to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u14	I'm afraid I'm gonna... ask Mr Sjoerdsma to reconsider. I do not think that what he is asking for in the amendment is necessary. That's what I started with. Mr Sjoerdsma asked in the amendment to extend the possibilities of applying for a DigiD abroad. There is talk of the elections. In both respects, the Ministry serves the people well. We have good people for that. We've expanded it. It's fine. So I don't need money for it, for starters. I wouldn't know what to do with it either. And other than that, I really don't like the cover. Then I don't have to look at it either. If it is really important to address that point again from the different departments, then the one who ever deals with it should judge it during a cabinet formation. I come to the amendment to item No. 42 which replaces an earlier amendment. It is a new amendment, with a new proposal for cover. Coverage is achieved by shifting resources within the device article. The fight against marital coercion is something the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is firmly committed to. I see the amendment as a firm support. We will use the extra resources in the State Department budget within the frameworks that apply to it on the important points that have been mentioned to ensure that the task force is going to work in an even more activist way than is currently the case. There's a lot of ways to do that. We still have to look at this very carefully, but I am thinking of the capacity in posts and the strengthening of cooperation. The petitioner mentioned tickets and so on. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I come to the Voordewind c.s amendment. in piece No. 15, which provides for 1 million from the Human Rights Fund to be spent on religion and freedom of belief. This is the same amendment as last year. I support that; I think this is an important amendment. Religion remains one of our priorities. I'm not that bad for all those bulkheads, but this is coming back. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Voordewind/Van der Staaij amendment to item No. 16 is about raising the Human Rights Fund by €817,000, to cover from the rule of law development in the budget of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, in order to give the PA the signal that payment of benefits to prisoners is unacceptable. This comes back repeatedly. The proposers themselves discussed this with President Abbas last year during the visit. They have also heard how this is viewed from a Palestinian perspective. The issue is a symptom of a much larger matter. We are opposed to these payments to prisoners; that is correct. That's what I'm committed to. We also want the system to be reformed. At the request of the Chamber, we discussed this with other Member States. However, this amendment is not, in my opinion, the way to deal with it. It won't be effective in any way. I'm working on another lead. Finally, the coverage of amendment ODA funds in the budget of fellow Minister Ploumen and not my budget. I come to the amendment to item No. 17 by Mr Servaes, which aims to add 2 million to the Human Rights Fund. In any case, the money should be used in part to promote social rights, such as the fight against exploitation of migrant workers and the promotion of trade union freedom. The proposed coverage comes from a reduction in expenditure under Article 4 on consular representation of interests and the international promotion of Dutch values. Last week we discussed in detail the importance of human rights. I have also shown that the IOB evaluation by the bank is positive, even if there are some differences of opinion. These additional resources can strengthen the matter on a number of points, so I would like to leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u15	For the determination of my group's position, the following is a good thing to know, as my group believes that consular services are far from satisfactory. At least it could be a lot better. This amendment removes 2 million from the budget for consular services. Before I ask my group for an opinion, I would like to know from Minister Koenders: what is that about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u16	I will inform you of that before you vote on Tuesday. That's not a problem. Also the international promotion of Dutch values and interests...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u17	If it's not a problem to do that and the Minister already knows it, then maybe he can share it with the Chamber now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u18	If I knew now, I'd tell you. I have just told you that I will inform you in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u19	I've noticed something else, too. Just now the Minister said that he does not need extra money for consular, but with the recognition of this amendment and his voting advice, the Minister even says that he is okay with less money being spent on consular. If I have understood the amendment correctly, we are going to spend that money on trade unions in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u20	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u21	Whether I'm right to draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u22	I don't think so. I'll brief you on the exact coverage. In any case, we have seen that there is no problem at the moment. I say again that I am really worried about the fact that Members of Parliament have now said a few times that we are currently consularly behind, not doing things right or need more money. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u23	I didn't make that claim. I do share Mr Sjoerdsma's concerns. I have heard the Minister's reasoning that the consulate is all fine and that he does not need any extra money and does not comment on it. But I do get out of my chair now that the Minister has given his positive opinion on the Servaes amendment implicitly and also explicitly indicates that he can do it by 2 million less. Then there's obviously too much money there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u24	The answer is, no, there's not too much money. Cover will be found within a number of issues that are not being published this year. I will inform you more precisely about this. You know how payments are. We are looking very closely at the demands of the consular service and how much money we need to do so. We then check whether there is money left for certain articles to find cover as soon as possible. That doesn't mean we're suddenly going to reduce quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u25	I see with interest that all kinds of colleagues are considering my amendment. I filed it myself, including the cover, of course. The last thing I would like to do is to table this amendment for additional human rights money at the expense of the consular services of detainees or of DigiDs or whatever. This is specifically the sub-category within which public diplomacy is monitored. I understand that there is under-exhaustment. I can reassure colleagues. This is not at the expense of the things that Sjoerdsma, for example, has asked for attention. I support him in that. This is another category within which there is budgetary space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u26	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u27	Perhaps it would be a good thing if I also said something about it, because the Minister is talking about his own budget. In consular services and public diplomacy there are a number of under-exhaustments. We will see how this can be spent wisely. If there are amounts for projects, either in the case of consular services or in the case of public diplomacy, which are not going to be published in the coming period, that is, of course, a cover. I'm a little surprised there's so much concern about that. I have just said that we can always use more money in the consular services for all posts, but not for DigiD and other matters mentioned in this amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 18 by Mr Knops on 1.5 million within the Human Rights Fund for the NGO Karama. Unfortunately, I have to advise against that amendment. There is a great deal of appreciation for Karama's work. Our ministry has supported the organisation's activities many times before. I can't agree to support individual NGOs in advance. You just have to compete like other NGOs. For example, the Netherlands finances the strengthening of women's organisations such as Karama through grant frameworks such as FLOW and the National Action Plan Women, peace and security. Moreover, these programmes are not intended to support organisations with low financial resources. It is always about the quality of the proposals. Perhaps it is also good to refer to my colleague Ploumen. It has reserved an additional EUR 40 million in connection with the Van Laar motion on the financing of southern women's organisations. For the MENA region, this funding is channelled through the African Women's Development Fund. Karama, for example, could participate in this grant tender at the beginning of next year and still continue its programmes. This brings me to the end of the examination of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you. Mr Voordewind has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u29	I have a little correction. My motion to part No. 16, according to the Minister, is covered by ODA funds from his colleague Ploumen's budget, but I am reducing an amount and adding an amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u30	That's an amendment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u31	Yes. The amendment in part No. 16, no motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u32	I'm gonna have to take a look at that. I thought the article 4.3 of the budget was BuHa-OS. Apart from that, I would advise against this amendment anyway, because I am not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-24-tweedekamer-8.u33	We shall vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. I thank the Minister and his officials.
