ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the CDA. Speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. One of the core values of the European Union is democracy. Democracy is the responsibility of a parliament to control the government's plans. Can the government, which had transparency as the spearhead of its own presidency of the EU, ensure that we do not get another European gremium that we are difficult to monitor? We are now getting the first informal summit and, according to what we read in the press, there will be a second one in Malta in February, for which the normal cycle with a prior agenda and documents does not apply. There are no pieces on the Delegates' Portal, where we can see what is being discussed. In this way we cannot control the position taken by the Dutch Government. Can the rulers indicate how we can control what is going to happen in the process that is now under way? In the letter we received, the Dutch Government says that it wants to take the lead in the whole process. But what does the leadership mean when the European Union is redesigned? For example, the President of the Commission, Juncker, has said today that he is asking everyone who goes to Bratislava to give three reasons why the Union should exist. What will be the European Union's response to this? So this is the first meeting in a period of soul-searching. We need concrete action by Europe, with concrete results. That is a good thing, because soul-searching and visions are not the points on which the Prime Minister normally promotes himself. His look is rather pragmatic. However, thinking out of the box should not be left to our Eastern European Member States alone. That is precisely why I would like to explain what is going to happen. Will the Dutch Government, now that 27 countries are sitting together, also reflect on why so many citizens have so much less confidence in the Union and its functioning? Would the government want to do that by writing a non-paper or a paper about that confidence and how it intends to win it back and share it with Parliament? So what is the position of the Dutch government? She'll be able to bring it into the trial later. There would not be talk of the Brexit, but as one knows, without agenda, about the things you formally do not speak of it is spoken longest. There is also a letter from Mr Tusk, who is still a bit bitter that the British have had a wrong campaign. So we would like to know what is happening. The first question is the following. As the Minister for Finance said in August, the British must quickly clarify the outcome of the referendum. Does the Prime Minister share that view? If this applies to the Brexit referendum, could such a view be valid for other referendums held in the Union in recent months? I would like to be clear about that. The EU should be attractive to its Member States. It should not achieve its legitimacy by punishing Member States that wish to resign. That's short-term politics. The United Kingdom is an important economy and a functioning rule of law. If we were to treat that country as a lesser partner than, say, Turkey, to which we did not hear any criticism yesterday, or Ukraine, we would really have double standards, so that Turkey could be granted visa-free status when we might soon be able to obtain visas with Great Britain. We would be failing ourselves as the Netherlands. Britain is a very important trading partner and ally. I therefore ask the following questions. How will the Dutch government ensure that the package that was on the table for the Brexit is implemented, including the red card? Will the Dutch government strive for a friendly divorce? The UK and the EU should have a common market, not import and export tariffs. Does the government share that? Are there gonna be visas or not? Does the Dutch Government intend to make every effort to ensure that they do not exist? Are the people who now exercise the right to work elsewhere not forced to return to their countries, both EU-UK and UK-EU? Finally, we would like some more information on the net payment position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the future of Europe and therefore the future of the Netherlands. The Brexit has sharpened the debate on the future, but the vision of the future has become more blurred. D66 therefore wants a clear future perspective, namely to improve and reform Europe together in order to achieve a strong Netherlands and a strong Europe. D66 advocates a quick and business departure of the British, with no adverse financial consequences. Does the Cabinet share that? And is it also the Dutch commitment to allow the British to pay until the end of the current Multiannual Financial Framework, i.e. until the end of 2020? I would like a response to that. Mr Juncker wants a Europe that protects, strengthens and defends. It is well known that not all the words of President Juncker sound like music to me, but that is true of this one. An EU with support absolutely requires vision, but first of all it calls for fulfilled agreements and concrete results, I say to the Prime Minister. One example is the European Border and Coast Guard. How's that going? And what about European support for the Greek asylum system, the influx into Italy and the increasing pressure on the Bulgarian-Turkish border? Does the government also see that the Greek islands are gradually becoming a large detention centre? And what about the agreements with third countries, for example on the poor treatment of migrants in Libya? Will the Netherlands support them? A Union that protects is crucial. I ask the Cabinet what steps will be taken to create more security. I read new measures, but what about the point I keep making, the exchange of information between national intelligence services? I would like a response to that. What does the Prime Minister and the Cabinet think of the Franco-German proposal for a European defence union? What is the government's reaction to the plans presented by Mr Juncker this morning? I would like to respond to those points. These are all points that relate to the implementation of agreements and the implementation of short-term commitments. That is a very important point, because without concrete results there is no support for Europe either. In the long term too, we must, of course, continue to think. In that light, I find it interesting to hear what the cabinet, and in particular the Prime Minister, thinks of the proposals made by our joint group leader in the European Parliament, Guy Verhofstadt. After all, he is our joint group chairman. It is well known that my group prefers a united and decisive Europe of one speed, but also an idealist must be practical and real. In this sense, a two-speed Europe is, of course, much better and clearer than the current 50-speed Europe. What is particularly striking is that this week, in between all tough language, the Prime Minister has said endlessly that the Netherlands is not a cafeteria model. In the meantime, however, the cabinet states in its letter that the European Union is apparently a cafeteria model. In the letter from the cabinet there are things like more flexibility and different paces of integration, i.e. the Netherlands is not a cafeteria model, but Europe is. A Europe à la carte, which we do not allow the British, makes the Union less decisive and more diffuse. I'd like a response to that problem. Nor can a future-proof Europe be without a thorough reform of the budget. How does the Prime Minister ensure that the Chamber remains involved in the MFF negotiations? How does he ensure that the new MFF becomes more flexible and better, with more money for things that really are at European level of added value? Examples are safety and innovation, and not agricultural subsidies. Let us stop pumping money and post-taxes endlessly and move towards greater transparency and own resources. I would like a response to that. I see an interruption, Mr. President. You want me to finish the story? Finally, on Ukraine. Five months and one day ago, we held a debate in this Chamber on the outcome of the Ukraine referendum. The cabinet asked for room. As far as I am concerned, this has now been extended and taken very widely. How's it going? What is the stake in this area at the European Summit? I'd like to get a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr Verhoeven referred to the European budget. I took his new election program once. There's something in there that I'd like to know what's meant. It says: "A real budget based on own resources rather than the chopping of Member States' contributions." In my view, it is simply in code language that D66 wants the European Union to levy its own tax. Is that right? Then we'll know what's going on. If that's not true, I'm reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u5	D66 has made an election program with a lot of pages. On these pages is only very clear language, not code language. I can also be very clear on this point. D66 has always said that own resources in a budget of the European Union can be more effective than the current shift between countries over the country's payments. Own resources can take many forms. In the past, the European Union had its own resources, such as customs revenue and VAT payments. These are imaginable forms of own resources. You could also move towards a form of taxation, e.g. the ETS levy or even the energy consumption tax. There are therefore many different types of own resources, as far as D66 is concerned. If it were to come to that, the debate should always be unanimous. Mr Mulder knows that too. You can only change a decision on your own resources by unanimity. D66 therefore certainly keeps all kinds of own resources open as a direction of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u6	So this is not clear, "holds open." Is D66 for giving up sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u7	Yes! D66 is for own resources if this is better for transparency and if this makes a lower contribution by the Member States than is currently the case. Full-bodied, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u8	So D66 favours a European tax levied by the European Union. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u9	No, because "own resources" can be much wider than a European tax. A tax is a form of own resources, but there are many more possibilities. I am not going to be pinned on one form of own resources, as Mr Mulder is trying to do. But also for a form of tax, D66 has never been hesitant, provided that it is transparent and that it ensures that Dutch and other citizens will pay less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u10	The D66 spokesperson is now very easily saying that the European Union had customs duties and VAT, but that is what she has now. Customs duties are collected by the Union, through the Dutch customs authorities, and part of the VAT is transferred. If D66 says that there must be a new European tax with a larger tax area, then there must be a tax. What European tax does D66 intend to introduce? Mr Verhoeven can simply do with two or three options.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u11	Now I am being asked to give substance to something that is not even in our electoral programme. So that's a weird question. I have just given Mr Mulder a very clear answer: I see different forms of own resources. It can be a tax, but also a payment or other form, such as VAT or customs revenue. D66 has always said that the current way of working, with all Member States pulling over their payments, is a lot of hassle. A budget with transparent control and own income can be a very good alternative. That's also in our election program. So it does not say that it must be done by means of a certain tax which I can now explain to Mr Omtzigt. I have already mentioned two examples. ETS payments could be a possibility. We have also mentioned the energy consumption tax in the debate on the budget. There are several directions where you could go to a form of European taxation, but D66 has always found that. Once again, therefore, we have just put it back in our electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u12	The latter was already a little clearer, because VAT and customs revenue exist. D66 clearly states that the European Union may levy energy tax on top of the Dutch energy tax. This means that the gas and electricity bill is likely to increase by tens of euros per month per household. That is the amount you need to raise in order to provide the European Union with sufficient resources. That is the proposal that is on the table here. I put it that way, didn't I? Or did I misunderstand something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u13	No, it's totally wrong. It's not a question, either. It's the framing of someone else's proposal. That's a nice try, but I'll explain. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Mulder are making a mistake of thinking, and Mr Van Bommel is probably going to make it later. Creating a European form of own resources is something that must be agreed unanimously by all Member States. It's not something that can be forced on us, but we can choose for ourselves. D66 dares to make that choice, other parties in this house find that difficult. If we chose to do this, there would be all kinds of different possibilities. It will always have to mean that the bill that the citizens pay will not increase, but lower. You're not gonna do it any more, but one's gonna replace the other. Of course, we are not going to work with a budget with the current country payments and on top of that there are other forms of income. Mr Omtzigt pretends that D66 wants to. However, one comes instead of the other. So it is not going to be a higher bill for the citizen. Of course, no one wants that, D66 doesn't want that. What we want is transparency and control of European expenditure, where possible at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u14	Was that what you wanted to ask, Mr Van Bommel?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u15	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u16	I think that is the answer to Mr Van Bommel's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u17	I would like to commend Mr Verhoeven for his courage. You have to have the courage to go ahead with the elections with the announcement to the electorate that European taxes come directly or indirectly through taxes. I think that's brave. It's really a choice, and there's gonna be a choice later. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u18	The choice is D66 or all other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u19	Yes, if you want to pay more taxes, you vote D66. If you want less, you can vote otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u20	No, if you want to pay less tax, you vote D66. If you want to pay more tax, you will vote for one of the other parties who are also vague about it. That's the choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u21	My question is about the Brexit. It may also have financial consequences. Mr Verhoeven already referred to it. He suggested that the British continue to pay until 2020. Does this mean that during that period the British will be able to use the European funds, the money flows that go from Europe to the Member States? Otherwise, it would be a very strange argument. This is the only way to ensure that net income and expenditure remain the same. Can Mr Verhoeven explain his proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u22	I thank Mr Van Bommel for his question. If the European Union does not receive a request from the United Kingdom to leave the Article 50 procedure, there is nothing to worry about. Until then, the British simply pay, participate in everything and can anticipate all matters. If they say they want out, there will be a negotiation. It then seems logical to me that an attempt should be made to allow them to serve and pay out the current MFF period. In the meantime, as long as there is no final decision on retirement, they should also participate in the matters of which they are still part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u23	In my view, the procedure is that there should be a decision to withdraw within two years if the Article 50 procedure is started. Logically, you would stop providing financial services to the British. I think it is not for Dutch taxpayers to explain that a country is leaving the European Union, but that the Dutch continue to pay for funds made available to the United Kingdom. Apparently there is also courage at D66 to explain to the Dutch taxpayer that there is still money going towards a country that has now left the European Union. I think it's a piece of courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u24	I must be careful not to be too critical of the way in which my colleagues are debating, but I note that three colleagues have asked me questions. The rather clear answer I have given to this is somehow translated into a plan they would have liked to hear from me. However, I did not say that. So I repeat once again: whether it is about Brexit or forms of European taxation, D66 ultimately wants the Dutch citizen not to pay more but less to the European Union, while the results of the European Union go up. I believe that we share that view with all parties in Parliament. All the variants on this story, they don't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr. Chairman. We often talk about the Dutch commitment during a European summit here, but this time there is really something at stake. The Brexit forces us to reflect fundamentally on the question of what kind of European Union we want to live in. There is a crisis atmosphere. The fact that the Luxembourg Foreign Minister is now advocating the expulsion of Hungary from the European Union because of flagrant human rights violations against refugees shows this once again. But instead of making a pass, Commission President Juncker has again unfolded his ambitions for a European government during his State of the Union today, with a European finance minister and now also a foreign minister. Is the Prime Minister prepared to clearly distance himself from these two miserable proposals? The European Commission is not and should not be a government. The informal summit in Bratislava is all about the future of the European Union. Opinions on the direction vary considerably. Take the financial and economic pillar. Northern European countries still advocate speedy reforms, while the countries in the south stress that Europe is more than further integration and austerity policies. They want a more flexible European Union, including at the financial and economic level. The position of the Netherlands on this issue is unclear. On the one hand, the government wants to stick to the Stability and Growth Pact at all costs, on the other hand, the Minister of Finance mentions the budgetary rules too complex and believes that the indicators, such as debt steering, spending and the structural deficit, need to be revised. What is it now? According to the Prime Minister, which indicators should be relaxed or deleted? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the ambition to create more room for growth, investment and flexibility is at odds with maintaining fiscal consolidation and structural reforms? The government rightly states that European cooperation must be protected against the excesses of globalisation, including unfair competition and greatly deteriorated working conditions. In my party's analysis, these problems are largely due to the neoliberal economic integration of the European Union, in particular the deepening of the internal market. However, the government wants to deepen the internal market even further. Does the Prime Minister recognise that these are two opposing ambitions? How will the Netherlands identify and address the unfair effects of increased competition within the internal market? Beautiful words aren't enough here. If we want a social Europe, the Netherlands will have to deliver butter to the fish and make it concrete in what areas we want to preserve our sovereignty or take it back. I'd like to get a response. As far as my party is concerned, a social Europe will only come into sight with a new treaty. We are putting four demands on the table. The European Commission as it stands is being abolished. The same applies to the mandatory budgetary rules which undermine social policy. Member States will be given more scope to impose restrictions on the internal market. Finally, there is no transfer of powers without consulting the public. Sometimes you have to take a step back in order to take another step forward. I would like to hear which of these points the Prime Minister is prepared to hand over at the summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u26	Were you done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u27	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u28	Almost?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u29	You'll let the clock pass, so it'll go on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u30	No! I suggest that you conclude your speech. Then I'll give you an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u31	That's good. CETA, the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, is about to be approved in Brussels. My party is against this treaty, because CETA amounts to TTIP through the back door. 80% of US companies have a subsidiary in Canada. One important point at the moment is whether the Convention will be provisionally introduced shortly before the Member States have approved it. My group has serious objections to this and calls on the Prime Minister not to agree to the provisional application of CETA. Does the Prime Minister share my view that provisional application amounts to an erosion of democracy? I'd like to get a response. Finally, I have a few questions and comments on the so-called European Defence Union. The President of the European Council, Tusk, calls for a Union that protects and asks the Heads of Government to leave taboos at home. Orbán wants a European army. France and Germany advocate a European military headquarters. The Committee also welcomes this and expresses its support for all kinds of tightening-up of current policies, such as the deployment of EU-Battle Groups, joint defence investments and even binding policy goals, such as the standardisation of military equipment. Juncker confirmed it again today in his State of the Union. Security in Europe is indeed a very important issue, but a further transfer of competence in this area is undesirable to my party. My group withdraws from these proposals and likes to hear the Prime Minister's opinion. What is the Dutch commitment during the summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u32	I shall go back to Mr Van Bommel's four proposals. One of these is the abolition of the Stability and Growth Pact, i.e. the 3% deficit ceiling. Now I have heard before that the SP wants to relax the rules a bit. But if you completely abolish them, this means that, within monetary union, a country such as France or Spain could make unlimited deficits which we know, if that happens, the other participants in monetary union will be able to pay them at the end of the journey. Or does the SP want to maintain some relaxed standards, but still maintain standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u33	The latter. The rules currently agreed in the Stability and Growth Pact are actually arbitrary. It could have been 3.1% or 61%. They didn't choose that. In the past, it has been shown that the countries mentioned by Mr Omtzigt take the free hand in doing so. Greater flexibility in this area is urgently needed, so that countries can pursue social policies to some extent and, for example, opt for additional investment when they consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u34	Most politicians have no difficulty in choosing additional investments, but they have difficulty in choosing additional cuts. If you all have one coin, you can't let the deficits in a country go up. Mr Van Bommel now says that the 3% is somewhat arbitrary. That's for him to say. But can he tell me what non-arbitrary rule he wants to maintain?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u35	Each percentage in this area is random. That's what it's like now. I'm not saying that to outsmart Mr Omtzigt. But if we were to be flexible in this, with a reduction of 2% or 1%, I would not see any threat to the euro at all; in the past this has been the practice in some countries. The euro has structural errors that are not due to the Stability and Growth Pact, but to the relationship between the European economies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u36	I hear Mr Van Bommel talking about a social Europe. At the same time, I hear that the European Commission must be abolished. However, I do not hear him say anything about the position of the European Parliament and its powers. Sovereignty and powers should not be transferred to the European Union. How would Mr Van Bommel want to move towards a more social Europe? I don't think it's gonna work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u37	Those things do have something to do with each other. The European Commission is now imposing matters on countries, often with the agreement of the European Parliament and sometimes with the agreement of the Heads of Government, which we believe will automatically lead to such austerity policies in the Member States, bearing in mind the country-specific recommendations that social policy becomes impossible or that policies become more antisocial. Let me just say it by the name. By abolishing the European Commission, removing the right of initiative and turning it into an executive body, we are de facto out of it. It is true that there is another role for the European Parliament. Europe can become more social if there is less directing from Brussels towards Member States when it comes to the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u38	This whole pact on budgetary commitments has been largely supported by the Member States and the European Commission as such plays a subordinate role. I agree with Mr Van Bommel that we should take a much more subtle look at this kind of budgetary agreement without completely abolishing it, because that seems to me to be absurd. In this light, Mr Van Bommel's proposals are the stupidest thing to do institutionally. The European Commission is still somewhat under parliamentary control, but the Heads of State or Government in the Council are not. Mr Van Bommel is turning the EU into a direction in which the racket between Member States leads to something that he and I probably do not want. The real political debate on real European politics, aimed at combating inequality and communicating benefits, is not taking place because the SP removes the institution that is needed to implement that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u39	This is interesting, because it reveals the difference of opinion on the direction that Europe should take. Mr Grashoff obviously has great confidence that democratic control within the European institutions, the European Parliament and the European Commission, will take place if we strengthen these institutions. My party is in favour of controlling the Heads of Government much more from the Member States in order to steer the European Council better. This could also lead the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to the need to take sovereignty back. It is about legitimacy for European politics, which must come from the Member States and from the people of the Member States. There is, of course, the problem: we get heads of government and ministers at home who say Brussels had to do it, while in Brussels they always sign by the cross. That is the problem of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u40	I have already been surprised by the four proposals put forward by the SP for a better European Union. What will the SP do if these four proposals, which four demands cannot be met? Is the next step of the SP pleading for a next-day?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u41	We want to change Europe radically. We believe that this will require a treaty change. I also predict to Mr Verhoeven that this treaty amendment will come sooner or later. I'm sure of that. I am also convinced that the position of the institutions will be affected. The D66 route is not supported in the Netherlands and in Europe. I predict Mr Verhoeven that it may not go through the Dutch band but through the French, German or the other band. Then there will be a new treaty to undermine the position of the institutions. I would like to refer that treaty to the Dutch people in a referendum. I hope that I will find D66, the party of the referendum but sometimes not, on my side to campaign together for a good turnout in that referendum. I hope that Mr Verhoeven will also vote in favour of a referendum on such a treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u42	D66 is also the party for referenda for sound substantive proposals. The SP proposal requires four impossible things from Europe. The SP also says: if these four impossible things are not met, we want a referendum. There are three tastes in the debate on Europe. That is the taste of the PVV: do everything yourself, after all, away with the EU. The taste of D66 and perhaps a bit of GroenLinks is: through and forward with Europe, dare to reform where it is needed. Other than that, you've got everything in between. Where's the SP? Is the SP in the camp that wants a nexit? Is the SP in the camp saying that we want to move forward and move forward with a better Europe? Or is the SP with all those other parties who don't know, who get out of the way of the discussion and come up with a few smart terms, who yell, after which everything stays exactly the same and everything continues to function badly? Which of these three groups is the SP with its four proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u43	It's easy to say there are three flavors, but that's not how the world works. I also have no idea what Mr Verhoeven's view is that these proposals would be impossible to implement. In the world of D66 that is unthinkable, but our fantasy extends far beyond. It is also a question of acceptance in Europe. There is no basis for a European Union with a European Commission developing towards a European government. Under the leadership of D66 and Verhofstadt, the political leader of D66 in the European Parliament, a route is now being chosen in Europe which will ultimately undermine the support for the European Union. And then we go in the direction of a nexit. That's not the route I wish for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u44	At least we are making a choice, Mr Van Bommel!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u45	Yes, but Mr Verhoeven does not consider certain options. As far as I am concerned, his choice is not valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mr Van Bommel just said that the European Commission is imposing matters on countries, as if they were falling out of the sky, as if they were making them up independently and as if they were thinking, looking at those beautiful ceilings in Brussels, that we are going to impose something on the countries. Mr Van Bommel knows that this is happening in conjunction with the European Parliament and the Council. He knows that if the Council does not approve something, the European Commission will not just do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mrs. Maij is right. I have also said in my speech that this is done in conjunction, sometimes with the Council, mostly with the European Parliament, but that it is always signed at the cross. I hope that Mrs Maij will also acknowledge that matters are decided in Brussels with the agreement of the Netherlands, but that they are not defended here by the Dutch Government as a decision taken jointly by the Dutch Government, or at least with its approval. Let me give you one example: the income limit for granting social housing. It has been suggested from Europe that such a border should be established. In the Netherlands, that limit has been set at, I believe, €30,000. It was not defended in this Chamber at the time by Minister Donner, but the Netherlands had agreed to do so. Look, you're undermining the basis for European politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u48	I think Mr Van Bommel is seriously undermining the basis for European politics, because he really said again in response to one of the questions that the European Commission is imposing on countries. That's what I hear him say, and his partymates say, more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u49	In collusion!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u50	The European Commission does not do that itself. If Mr Van Bommel says that, then I think it is important that he also indicates the whole thing. The whole thing is that it is done in consultation with the Member States. I must say to Mr Van Bommel that his proposal to make Europe more social sounds like music to my ears. But two of the four proposals we have just discussed are actually just non-proposals. The proposal to abolish the SGP actually means making it a little more flexible, so it is not really being abolished. The proposal to abolish the Commission means that we are rid of the Commissioners, but the institute is retained. Mr Van Bommel is calling for something, but he will come back to it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u51	In five minutes I will be accused first of being impossible and then I will hear that it is nothing at all! If I have to choose between those two, I don't remember either. I choose my own option, namely that it is something and that it is going to make a difference. One thing is certain: if we deprive the European Commission of its right of initiative, we will be spared much misery. Many of these proposals would not have been made by this government itself, and not by most governments. That is because it often leads to austerity in Member States, to measures that are not acceptable and to proposals that the Dutch Government says should leave Brussels without its own will, whereas that is actually not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u53	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u54	I shall come back to this in a moment, because Mr Van Bommel is of course turning his back on it. It is not just the Commission. It is mainly the Council. Without the Council, nothing will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u55	That was not a question, Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u56	No, I'm not gonna answer a question. I am not saying that it is the Commission alone. But the Commission has the right of initiative. There is a great deal coming out of the Commission's case. That's gotta stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u57	Mr. Chairman. We see an EU that stumbles from crisis to crisis. We're not talking about incidents. We're talking about existential crises. After every crisis, every well-thinking person indeed expects a period of reflection and recalibratement, but that need cannot be found in Brussels. On the contrary, every crisis, whether it be the banking crisis, the euro crisis or the invasion from Africa and the Middle East, has the same answer over and over again: more transfer of powers and less autonomy for nation states. The Brexit was such a major crisis. But there was no doubt about this either. I assure the government that the disgust among the EU's critical citizens is brought to a climax by this policy of blind bitterness with which the Brussels elite is concerned. This is no longer a belief in progress. This is political arrogance that takes dangerous forms. Plans are again being launched to increase the transfer of powers to Brussels. The ever-increasing level of defence cooperation is a good example of this. The Brexit paved the way to a European army, so I read somewhere. The British were critical of far-reaching defence cooperation, which would be in the way of NATO. Can the rulers respond to this? Is Brexit indeed perceived as an incentive to come to that European army? I come to the reforms. On 11 July, the EP rapporteur, Mr Verhofstadt, published his draft report on the future of the EU, which the EP is currently working on. Why does the EP choose him as rapporteur? We've been surprised. Is this intended as a signal that the EP, the Commission and the Council have picked up the signal from the critical citizens? I don't think so. The choice for Verhofstadt is seen as an insult to that critical citizen, as is the choice to appoint him as a negotiator with the United Kingdom. That's really an insult, a provocation, even a very thick finger raised. That's how it's experienced. I would also like to give that to the rulers in case they go to Bratislava. I'd like to have a brief reaction to it anyway. Is it wise to choose Verhofstadt? Explain to me the added value of him in this process, which should be very important for the survival of the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u58	Apart from the fact that Mr Beertema of the PVV speaks in very negative terms about someone who cannot defend himself here, I have another question for him. He says: I would not like Mr Verhofstadt to play a number of key roles in the reform of the European Union and to negotiate the Brexit with the British on behalf of the European Parliament. What would the PVV's alternative be? Who would like to put the PVV forward from the European Parliament to assume that role? I ask this because the PVV always says what she doesn't want. I just want to hear from the PVV a name of who would then be the outstanding candidate in the European Parliament to take on those two roles. What short list does the PVV offer for this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u59	I'm afraid D66 doesn't quite understand the port of my remarks. Perhaps we are very pleased with Mr Verhofstadt's choice. That's fundenes Fressen for us, I'd say. But that's not the whole point. My question to the government was: what do you think is the added value of this incredibly fanatical and ideologically blinded ideologist, who only wants one thing, namely a 'United States of Europe'? It's not our party, Mr Verhoeven. But as some sort of visitors of Artis on Sunday afternoon we are of course curious what is going on. We'd like to stay informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u60	I was afraid of this. I think what Mr Bertema is doing now is very doubly so. First, on behalf of the Eurosceptic citizen, he says that it is an insult, a blow to the face of the citizen so important to him, that Mr Verhofstadt is appointed. Then I ask for an alternative and he says: well, as a PVV we think it is actually politically useful; gefundenes Fressen. What a hypocritical attitude that is! And then I simply ask Mr Beertema, in the sporting spirit of the debate, to mention a name, and then he comes up with a long, evasive, strange answer, which he cannot name. Mr Beertema, just say a name and don't pretend you're the only one who can stand up for the citizen in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u61	The importance of my comments to the government is to give it to us, and also to give it to us in Bratislava, that the choice for Mr Verhofstadt is one that is mostly not supported by that Eurosceptic citizen, and that this poses a danger to the survival of her and your EU. I would just like to point out that this is the provocative nature that you always see in Brussels. Once again, after every crisis, there is no reflection. The Minister's letter says: there will be reflection. And then there are some conclusions that are completely empty words. There's not gonna be that reflection. I just explained that. After each crisis, there is a blind flight ahead: more EU, more federation, less national states. That's my story. I would like to point that out. That is also the big objection of all those people who voted for Brexit in England, for all those people who will vote for Nexit and so on. Do something with it. Learn from it, I'd say. That's probably not spent on you, because you're a million miles ahead, but other people aren't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u62	The PVV has presented a very extensive electoral programme. It had over 140 characters, so that's big. It also states that the PVV wants to come from the EU. Mr Beertema just asked what we learned from the Brexit. I'm very curious about the following. In Britain, they have no idea what they want for a model now. Swiss model, Norwegian model? They don't know. Does the PVV know? If the Netherlands leaves the European Union, what model will we get?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u63	About the election program: that was not 140 characters; that was 11 points. They were on one A4, but I would also like to refer you to our fine report on direct democracy. That's gotten a little less attention. That report is bigger than one A4, so I suggest you sit down for a night. Furthermore, we have not only published this beautiful report on direct democracy, but also the beautiful report NExit. I have copies left, so I can send it to you. Look at that, too. There were also warnings from you and many other people that the United Kingdom would go down after the Brexit and it would all be a disaster. It's all not so bad. It's still very fresh, but the apocalypse didn't get over us. We still have full confidence that Britain will come out in a very good way, just as the Netherlands will after a next. Have a little faith, VVD, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u64	Trust in? I can't get an answer to my question. What does the PVV want? Does she want a Swiss model, in which you have to pay a fee and there is free movement of persons? Does she want to take over the Norwegian model, so take over all the rules without influence and also pay contributions? Can Mr Beertema answer my question, or is it just a nexit and does he have no idea of an alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u65	There are a lot of options in the NExit report. I refer you to that. I do not think this debate is an opportunity to question me on...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u66	No answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u67	No, come on. That's not the point at all. We are talking about Brexit and Bratislava. The report will undoubtedly be on the agenda soon and we will then have a wide-ranging debate on it. Then you will be served at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u68	Of course, this is what this is about. The Bratislava Summit was organised because of Brexit, so of course it is about what happens when countries leave the European Union. Mr Mulder asked you what your plan is. I think it's very legitimate. We can see in Britain that the friends who have campaigned so hard for a Brexit have cleared the field one by one. They were happy that they had won, but had no idea how quickly they had to clear the field. Then those who stayed do not really know what the next step is. They have no idea how Great Britain should shape relations with Europe. So it is a good question. What would the PVV want to see after a nexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u69	I'm not gonna go into that anyway. This is terra incognita, as Mrs Maij also knows. This has never been shown before. Mrs Maij, there will be a dynamic that you have no idea of either. The Commission has no idea. The EP has no idea. The Council has no idea. That's why it's being discussed. That is why we are looking very hard for top negotiators to guide the use of the Article 50 procedure. I notice that there are people there who are not known for their UK friendliness, so to speak. You'll have to take care of that. The divorce that is about to take place becomes a divorce. Not the UK is doing this. This is straight from Brussels. Don't blame me for not knowing, if you don't know yourself, if Brussels doesn't know, the Commission doesn't know and no one knows. Let this process take its course. You'll see it's gonna be okay. You must have faith in that. You don't, but we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u70	The difference between the PVV and the PvdA and, in my opinion, the colleagues from other parties here, is that we do not propose to come up with a nextit. You do and then you tell the Dutch electorate that the Netherlands is doing very well, that it is much better, that it is economically better and that we all get pluses. But you say here yourself: I have no idea, "terra incognita," we don't know. You don't know, I don't know. That's what you just said to me. So you're mirroring the voter something you don't really know. That is a very risky choice, if you yourself indicate that European cooperation in the Netherlands can be a little better. You are putting forward a proposal, but you are also saying that this is going very well, but I have no idea because it is terra incognita, but please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u71	Unbundling will be a difficult process. Absolutely. We agree on that. But once that unbundling is over, after a nexit, we will be in a situation where we can operate ourselves, keep a lot of money and conclude our own trade agreements. Then we will no longer have those bureaucrats you are so enthusiastic about, with the enormous democratic deficit that is there in Brussels. Then it is all much closer to our own country, our own nation state and our own community that knows each other and so on. That's the story, and that's gonna work out. Have a little faith in it. Dare to think, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u72	Dare to think, but Mr Beertema hasn't produced much of that thinking, because he is completely in the dark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u73	You too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u74	But he does want to get in there without any problem. The role of the politician as a leading person in this society is therefore par excellence: I go into the unknown without knowing anything. And when things go wrong, I say bad luck, I didn't know, did I, honestly? I may know a little more than Mr Beertema, and I would like to refer the following to him. The Dutch economy is largely based on exports. The vast majority of what enters that huge port of Rotterdam also crosses the border. The most simple form of 'no European Union' is, if you don't know it, simply to re-introduce import duties at all borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u75	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u76	Can Mr Bertema imagine that this has disastrous consequences for the Dutch economy and for all the people working in the port of Rotterdam? Is Mr Beertema saying that he doesn't know, because he actually knows that it has disastrous consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u77	It is not unknown that there are no more payments to the south. From your point of view, that is quite right: all equally poor or rich. For us, it's not. We have built up our prosperity, our welfare state over hundreds of years. We are proud of that. We see that over the decades the European Union has become a transfer union, a transfer union. From the north of Europe, the net contributors, prosperity is being skimmed. We are impoverished, I would like to give Mr Grashoff. This is largely due to the payment union or transfer union that we have become. A great deal of wealth and money is being skimmed and levelled towards the south and east of Europe, from a vague sense of solidarity, which Mr Grashoff seems to be in good hands. We do not know that kind of solidarity. We are not in solidarity with Greeks who do not have their tax system in order. We are in solidarity with people in Limburg, Friesland and Noord-Holland. That is what we want to show solidarity with. That is our mandate. I have no mandate in Greece. Nor do you, Mr Grashoff, but you want to impose your blind ideology on us in order to preserve those open borders and that one Europe, where there is no demos, is not a people. That's a difference in perspective. I think mine is much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u78	Mr. Chairman. I didn't get any answers, but you did stop the clock. This is all free speaking time for Mr Beertema, who has not answered my question in any way. Maybe it's wise to arrange something else here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u79	Well, I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u80	Mr Bertema does that a lot. He didn't answer my question in any way. I have put a very specific question to him about the dependence on the Dutch economy, to make it clear with a small example. Mr Beertema has started a completely different exhibition, really out of nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u81	There was a specific question about the port. The port of Rotterdam has grown before there was an EU. At the time of the EEC we had a perfectly functioning port. We were even the largest port in the world, which we are no longer. We do not need the EU at all, I would like to give Mr Grashoff. We have built our prosperity over hundreds of years, with a very international eye. Our merchants and our businessmen are swarming all over the world. The VOC was the first multinational in the world, born in Amsterdam. You know all about it, Mr Grashoff. I mean, what are we talking about? We do not need the EU, the Brussels bureaucrats, to trade. We're very good at that ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mr. Chairman. Again...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u84	No, not again, Mr Grashoff. Please continue, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u85	We were talking about Verhofstadt. Of course, he chooses a federal line. It proposes to put an end to the Europe à la carte. He wants a finance minister and a foreign minister and also that defence union. He wants to operationalise the EU combat groups: Battlegroups, multinational units; 1,500 military. There must be two combat groups standing by all the time. That's pretty much the story. EU Member States are still operating, including in Mali, under their own national flag and command. According to Mrs Mogherini, that is a schizophrenic situation. But it is precisely this unelected bureaucrat who proposes to give these EU combat groups their own headquarters in Brussels. A common European defence structure can then be built around this core in the long term. What will be the Dutch contribution to this theme? Is the reaction of the Prime Minister and the Minister to Verhofstadt's plans to permanently abolish the nation states, because that is what it is all about, positive? Will the government respond positively to the proposal to surrender even our Dutch armed forces to those shadowy Brussels powers, unknown bureaucrats without a real mandate felt and recognized by the Dutch citizen? Or do the leaders already refer these proposals to the wastebasket? I would also like to make a comment on European unemployment insurance. Slovak Minister Kazimir made it clear that the EU is in the process of establishing a European unemployment insurance scheme. He said that further integration of euro countries was inevitable. Well, there we have it again; that inevitability. In other words, the EU's fiscally viable Member States will soon be paying the WW payments of countries with high unemployment rates. Does the EU intend to make Dutch citizens pay for these WW payments from Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal, with unemployment of 27.4%, 21%, 12.2% and 10.8% respectively? Or does the Prime Minister say today: no, Mr Beertema, there is no euro for the unemployed Greeks, Spaniards, Italians and Portuguese?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u86	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands, as one of the founding fathers of European cooperation, must take the lead in getting the EU back on track. We often forget, for example the previous speaker, that European cooperation has brought us much: security, prosperity, stability and also jobs and peace. It is true: the European Union is not perfect. The European Union must be better and more social, I also say to Mr Van Bommel. I agree with him on that. A fairer labour market, tackling tax avoidance, respect for the rule of law and human rights in all Member States. A more balanced asylum policy. An EU for our citizens and an EU as a powerful player on the world stage. In the letter, the government opts for a strong Netherlands and an adaptive and solution-oriented Europe. That's a very pragmatic approach. The PvdA also sees challenges. There are multiple crises. Nationalist tendencies and a political right-wing wind in many Member States make compromise in the European Union difficult. But throwing the towel in the ring, as some here want, is a really bad choice for the Netherlands. What information does the government have on the debates in other Member States ahead of this summit, on the deployment of, for example, the Visegrád countries, the northern Member States and the Mediterranean group? Which countries have the Netherlands had pre-consultations with and what exactly has been discussed there? Is the High Representative's roadmap involved in this, for example? What does the government think of this and what is the first reaction to the statements made by President Juncker in the State of the Union? I agree with the questions that have been asked about this earlier. The process and timing of the Brexit need to be clarified. Political and economic uncertainty is bad for us. If Britain wants to remain in the internal market, it must do so, including the free movement of workers, the financial contribution and possible future agreements on, for example, tax avoidance. How can the EU become stronger? That's the question we're here for. The EU must invest in common values, such as the rule of law, freedom of the press and human rights. There should be no blackmail with these basic values. Member States must also be able to and dare to approach each other. The internal market is not only for companies, but also, and above all, for employees. The Detachment Directive needs to be thoroughly adapted to ensure that the European labour market becomes fairer. I'm going to repeat that. There must be equal pay for equal work in the same place. Tax avoidance needs to be addressed. We support the idea of achieving a minimum, for example, of corporation tax and profit tax. No race to the bottom at the expense of employees. The letters write a lot about migration policy. We really need more action than words. There must be a genuine common asylum policy, consisting of border monitoring, reception, admission and return. Everyone within the European Union must assume their share and responsibility. Surely it cannot be that Greece has not been in order for so long, for seven years now, and that only a handful of countries keep their agreements on resettlement? What does the government actually think of the forthcoming referendum in Hungary in this context? The PvdA believes that we can talk about European cooperation with a little more passion these days, even though the EU is not always a project to love easily. Those who look rationally at the benefits of the European Union, of cooperation, especially for the Netherlands, must be crazy to say that we as the Netherlands should withdraw behind the dikes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u87	There we have it again: pull back behind the dikes. That's one of those frames that doesn't go up at all. What is true is that I am very doubtful about the words I hear from Mrs Maij about joint border control. Where did the EU ever do that? To this day, Frontex is only trying to pick up migrants off the Libyan coast and every other coast they come from and ship them across the border with a ferry service, and then they're all flocking to Northwest Europe massively to disrupt our entire social system and our countries. Where did Mrs Maij come up with this? Why does it create the illusion here again that we can do something together with the European Union to guard those external borders? What time does she live in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u88	I have the feeling that European cooperation as a whole is a bit terra incognita for Mr Beertema. Mr Beertema should look at what is being done by Frontex. For example, he could also go on work visits to borders where Frontex does a lot more things than what Mr Beertema just said. Frontex does indeed, but it also does things at the border with Bulgaria, for example. Not so long ago, we saw a number of Dutch people there who are working with others to guard the border. Much more is really happening than Mr Beertema is suggesting. He might be able to dig into it sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u89	I was at work in Warsaw in that war room of Frontex with all those beautiful screens that have connections to satellites. I was really impressed with the way they saw the smallest dot and knew that was a raft. Then we asked: why don't you send them back, why don't you push them back? Then we were very surprised. That's when they realized who we were. That's when the atmosphere was ruined. That's what I have to say. It was also said that Frontex wasn't there to push boats back, but to save those people. That was my job visit. Does Mrs Maij have a reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u90	I think we're here to keep legal agreements. At least I am. I think some of the others in the Chamber are, too. Mr Beertema may not be. For example, we also adhere to the agreements of the refugee treaty. Mr Beertema mentioned this example again, ignoring, for example, the fact that Frontex is also active on the border between Spain and Morocco and the border between Bulgaria and Turkey. Things aren't going well. That is what I said in my text. It is not 100% everywhere, but there really is a lot more going on than Mr Beertema is suggesting here and not just people are being taken off boats. That's very good, by the way, because otherwise people would drown. I wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u91	Please continue, Mrs. Maij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u92	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u93	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u94	It is surprising that Mrs Maij is already finished, because it was precisely the Labour Party who, in dealing with the outcome of the Ukraine referendum, demanded that before the summer, eventually in the summer, the Dutch government's position on how to deal with that "no'. Is there still such a need and is there another deadline? Or can the government simply extend it for itself as far as the Labour Party is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u95	We are talking today about an informal summit. I have heard before, perhaps we can ask the government that this point will be raised at formal summits later this year. Then we'll bring it back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u96	It is logical that there should be consultation with the European partners. The point was that the Dutch government said: we wait until after the Brexit and then we can decide our position. None of that's gonna happen. Now there is an informal summit and there is no mention of it. Probably just happens in the walkways. What is the wish of the Labour Party? Once again, the Labour Party was at the forefront of the examination of the results to say that it wants clarity before the summer. What is the deadline of the Labour Party in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u97	We have also indicated that we are giving the government a little more time, because we have heard that it is working on it. That is what Mr Van Bommel heard. He has also heard that more will become clear in the autumn. Then we'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u98	I think it is a pleasant and pro-European story by Mrs Maij, who once again outlines the important benefits of the EU. However, I do not yet see and hear a very clear direction in which the PvdA would like the Union to develop. Could Mrs Maij be a little more specific about this? How does that relate to what the Cabinet has sent? I think, to be perfectly honest, that's a little non-descript after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u99	I have mentioned a number of concrete issues, such as investment in the rule of law and freedom of the press. I also said that Member States should have the courage to address each other, for example the state-of-law dialogue. I have also mentioned the internal market, not only for companies but also for employees. I can read my text even further. I have made it very clear which direction is important to us: a more social Europe that delivers for workers and is not just a market for companies that are here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u100	If Europe were to become more social on this issue, I would agree wholeheartedly with Mrs Maij-Weggen that it is not the competence of the European Union, but the Member States, that is what is always being said about this social area. Does Mrs Maij agree with me that you should take care of a number of issues at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u101	In my view, I have also made it clear that the Detaching Directive needs to be thoroughly revised so that we have equal pay for equal work in the same place. We must combat tax avoidance. I have made that quite clear. I understand that Mr Grashoff is looking for something else, but I have mentioned a number of very clear examples, with which we could very quickly take good steps towards a more social Europe, provided we get everyone to do so. We'd like to fight for that to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr. Chairman. People are concerned about the European Union. The European Union no longer calls for a sense of security and prosperity. Some people increasingly see the European Union as a threat. Open borders become a problem if you do not guard the external borders. We have said it before: the Brexit must be a wake-up call. Then there are two types of reactions: those of the Europhobes, who want the European Union to break up, and those of the Europhiles, who think that more European Union is the solution to every problem they see. The VVD's in between. We are critical of Europe, but we also see that the European Union can and must be of added value on a number of major cross-border issues. Fortunately, the cabinet also sees these issues: migration, border surveillance, combating terrorism and insecurity and more internal market, also digitally. There is still a great deal of economic growth to be earned on that last point. According to the VVD, it also looks like this is going to happen. The cabinet mentions these issues, and Mr Juncker also mentions them, along with a number of others. Mrs Merkel has done a round in Europe and I have the impression that the Germans, with some sort of matrix, have shown what all countries want and where the great common denominator is. I think these are these themes. Is that true and will that lead to results on Friday and the coming months? Our group wants a Europe of strong Member States. We do not want a European Union that takes over responsibilities from Member States, but Member States that, above all, solve their problems themselves. You can ask for the fight against youth unemployment, you can ask for more money for the Juncker Fund, but the question is whether that is a real solution. A real solution is to reform the economy of large countries such as France and Italy. That really leads to economic growth and more jobs. If you pretend that the European Union can solve all of this, you will be disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u103	Mr Mulder speaks of more money for the Juncker Fund. That point did indeed come up today. Do I hear Mr Mulder say that we should lie down for that, we should block that, we are not going to accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u104	I wouldn't use words like that very quickly. We have to wait and see if these plans are going to come. Then we must first look at what the current Juncker Fund is doing. It's got 315 billion in it now. How's that working out for you? With that kind of evaluation in hand, we can look at the proposals. If you want to grow the economy, the big countries need to reform their economy. That's the real solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u105	If Mr Mulder is serious about all this, he would do well to send the message to the government to Bratislava that we now need to send a signal that we do not need to increase the Juncker Fund for the time being and that we want to see an evaluation of the use of existing funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u106	That's exactly what I'm saying. It is wise to evaluate first and then to see how to proceed with the Juncker Fund. I'm not gonna tell you not to. I would first like to see what it is doing and whether that is enough and then look further at the message to reform the economy in particular. Then I'll come by appointment's appointment. That's what the cabinet letter says. The European Commission is the guardian of the Treaties and must monitor them. What if countries fail to comply with the agreements? What does that mean? What else can we do? Is it perhaps an option for countries which do not comply with the rules but which do use European Union funds to temporarily stop these funds? Is that a solution? I'd like a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u107	Just a few words about these great economic powers in Europe - France and Italy - which need to be reformed. Of course, they must be reformed, but I say to Mr Mulder that these countries are not going to reform and that the EU and national governments cannot do that. It's not gonna happen, Mr. Mulder. Then what is your perspective for membership of these countries for the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u108	I do not know whether Mr Beertema means putting countries that do not reform out. The point is that, if you really want to make money in the European Union, you should not look at the European budget or the Juncker Fund. You need to reform. If you do that, you get economic growth. I say to those countries: do not look at Brussels now to solve it, solve it yourself. Some countries are having a hard time with that. In France, when you stop for a moment, you see retreating movements again. You can see that the competitiveness of the European Union is falling as a block, especially as these large countries are falling. The Netherlands and Germany continue to score well, but in these countries it can do a lot better. Then we can all earn it. You have to insist on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u109	Yes, but how long have we been insisting on that? For decades, and it's not gonna happen. I do not think it is a very clear picture of the position of Italy and France. I'm telling you it's not gonna happen. My question is again: what are we to do with these countries? I am not saying that they should get out, but I am saying that the basis of the European Union and the way in which it wants to create prosperity are not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u110	You can't force those countries. As a committee of inquiry, it is difficult for us to go to Paris and say: and now you will and must. We can insist on it all the time. If you want the European Union to remain viable, also for the future, and show economic growth, you must do so. The rest is a bit of a surrogate solution. It is clear what the cabinet wants, but the question is how the cabinet wants to do it. We were quite comfortable in the United Kingdom-France-Germany triangle. The United Kingdom, which we see as an ally, but which is not and was not always, is going out. Who are our new allies now? Can the Minister answer that? We have seen in recent weeks that the Visegrád countries are coming together, that the Mediterranean countries are coming together and that we are being classified by Germany in the so-called Nordics. Who are our new allies? Are they geographical or more thematic, by subject? Perhaps it would be good to look at what I call the 'Wild East', where Poland and Hungary say they want to steal horses together. They also say that we want a stronger position for the national parliament. Maybe there's an ally there. We would like to hear a response from the cabinet to the question of who our new allies are and how we deal with them. I'll get to the Brexit. A number of colleagues have asked questions about this, including in writing. How's the Cabinet handling this? Now the cabinet says that Article 50 has not yet been put into effect and that it is not yet preparing for it, but I have the impression that other countries do. They have whole task forces. How will the Netherlands do that? How do we ensure that our interests are represented when it comes to Mr Barnier who is going to do the negotiations on behalf of the European Commission and Mr Seeuws, a Belgian, who is going to do so at the European Council? How do we ensure that we sit at the table and that these people take our interests? Finally, Article 50. Paragraph 2 also states that you can arrange something about future relationships. What is the Dutch interest now? Are we going to say that the UK needs to get out and then talk about future relationships? Or is it more convenient to do that at the same time? Then these negotiations may not last two years but longer, but then they will be in Dutch interest. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u111	What is Mr Mulder's position on the plans for a defence union, a European army? Mr van Baalen has said a few things about it, but what he wants is still completely unclear to me. How does Mr Mulder feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u112	The question is whether there are plans for a European army. The VVD doesn't want that. When Dutch soldiers are deployed, the national parliament, this parliament, is concerned and not another parliament. The one about the European army. I've also read about joint headquarters. These are interesting proposals, but I do not think it is wise to double what NATO is already doing. That is how we will look at it: no support for a European army and no duplication of what NATO is already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u113	But you do not think this is so important that you want to give this to the rulers in their first term for Bratislava. You say something about digital states, but the formation of a national army doesn't give a shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u114	I'm at minus 30 seconds, so I'm already out of my speaking time. I think it is important enough, and that is why I am glad to be able to say this in response to this interruption. We, as a group, have of course looked at this. Moreover, I have not yet seen a proposal for a European army. I see all kinds of proposals coming along, but they are not as concrete as Mr Beertema has described them. But alertness is required here!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u115	Mr Mulder also did not say anything about the debate on the budget. He did ask questions about it in connection with the D66 electoral programme. I don't think the VVD's election program is out yet. The European budget is set for seven years and is very inflexible. There are a lot of agricultural subsidies and cohesion funds, and there is also a post-tax every so often. It also leads to a great deal of discussion about the payments made by the countries. That's all negative energy. Does the VVD hold on to all this misery or does the VVD also want to change the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u116	Last week I had the privilege of acting in Brussels in a panel on this budget. I am the rapporteur with Mr Koolmees from D66. VVD and D66 think almost the same about that budget. We need less to go to agriculture and the cohesion funds, and we need more flexibility. We differ on one point, and that is what we were talking about in the first place, namely the European tax. I am also quite sure that we can work together on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u117	So the VVD wants to move forward with the reform of the European budget and the Multiannual Financial Framework, so that less money goes into agriculture and more money into knowledge, more money is used more flexibly, there is no more trouble with post-taxation and it becomes much more transparent. At this point, the VVD with D66 will act as one block towards this cabinet, a cabinet that can still use some ambition here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u118	I literally said that in Brussels last week. I got frowning eyebrows from French parliamentarians and parliamentarians from the Baltic countries, because these cohesion funds are good anyway, and that money certainly ends up well with those French farmers. No, we have to do something about that, and for that, we're looking for allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u119	Mr. Chairman. The Brexit cannot and must not be the beginning of the end of the European Union. In this respect, GroenLinks also fully supports what the cabinet writes in his letter. Of course, we must now consider the future of Europe, but it cannot lie in the breakdown of cooperation. It will have to lie in deepening this cooperation. We choose to move together, to stand stronger with each other and to avoid contradictions between nation states and certainly not to rush ahead. So far we're going with the cabinet. We're still very missing a diagnosis. Why do people turn away from the European Union? This union once had great support from the population in the Netherlands and beyond. What happened in those years? To anyone who said that the Brexit should be a wake-up call: we must now note that too much business as usual is happening again. The Union of Currency, Market and Multinationals must really be transformed into a Union of peace, freedom, security and responsibility, a Union in which citizens decide, participate, all of them, and count. Brussels will have to develop from a conglomerate of faceless institutions, where, above all, professional lobbyists know the way, towards a visible and recognizable government, democratically legitimised, not only through national parliaments but also at the European level, with clear communication, transparency, and with a clear but simple way of working towards European legislation. Those institutional changes will really have to be made and, yes, treaty changes are needed. The agenda that President Tusk has put down is actually lacking a great deal of inspiration. Yes, it is true, we need a strong EU to protect citizens from abuse of power and unfair competition in the labour market. That is an important point; Mrs Maij also said something about it. At the same time, I am sceptical, because the EU also scares European citizens with far-reaching free trade agreements, which are cut out for investors and multinationals but not for individual citizens. The surveillance of external borders is on the agenda. Let us be clear: there is only one real external border, and that is that of the Union. But we will also have to make it clear that this means that within the Union we must deal with the borders in a way that makes it possible to resettle refugees and that we must bring about an adaptation of the Dublin Regulation. Does the government agree and can it make an effort to do so? The Commission President, Mr Juncker, has mentioned a few things that are a little more in the forefront of our work, in particular the ratification of the Paris Convention. Can the Dutch Government confirm its commitment to this? We are getting rumours that the Netherlands is currently opposed to ratification at official level. Is that right or is that wrong? Unemployment must be firmly at the heart of the role, as must unemployment which is lacking to a large extent, in the fight against inequality. That is a point that we need to miss in the vision expressed by the cabinet. If we want the European Union to be carried, it will have to be carried by everyone, and everyone should recognise that it benefits. Although it is not on the agenda, the relationship with the United Kingdom will be discussed. Let us be clear: an important point will be that a treaty will soon have to be drawn up with the United Kingdom, of course; but not at the expense of everything. It seems logical to me that the United Kingdom should continue to pay after the Brexit, just as Switzerland and Norway do, other countries with which we have treaties. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? We will have to be businesslike. The EU accounts for more than half of the UK's international trade. The United Kingdom is more dependent on the EU than vice versa. For the Netherlands, the United Kingdom is important, but for a country like Germany alone, for example, it is three times more important in terms of trade, and for the EU as a whole about ten times. A dependent attitude should therefore not be considered. Can the government confirm that in any case we must also make agreements to curb the financial sector, where the British seem to want to win another competitive battle at the moment? For example, in the case of vpb tariffs, it would be logical for the Treaty negotiations to include the fact that the United Kingdom will certainly not set its vpb below the average of EU tariffs, in order to avoid completely inappropriate competition. Does the Prime Minister consider this type of agreement to be workable, and can he make an effort to do so? The Netherlands is not a cafeteria model, nor is the EU. When we come to a treaty with the British, it will have to be done in a business and firm way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u120	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u121	Madam President. What kind of Europe do we actually live in? That is what many Europeans are still wondering, and increasingly, in our impression. Many Europeans have long called for less Europe, and they actually refer to the European Union and its institutions. They call for more room for the Member States. But many European leaders are deaf to the concerns of these concerned European citizens. The statements made today by President Juncker in his State of the Union are significant. I'm quoting a few. In his view, the democratic EU Member States should not bow to the wind of populism. This serves as an excuse for the more or less justified criticism of the EU's functioning and claims. Mr Juncker also said that Mrs Mogherini should be the European Minister for Foreign Affairs. He says this while we are currently discussing whether the EU is not doing too much and is not drawing too much. He felt that there should be permanent and structured European defence cooperation. He later added his own European defence fund, as well as the suggestion of a permanent headquarters. He also felt that the CETA Convention should be ratified as soon as possible. It does not matter that there are growing objections to this in the various European countries. It seems as if only such pavlov reactions are possible from the institutions of the European Union. Here there is no credible response to the widespread euroscepticism. I hear yet another call for more Europe, while a Member State is leaving the EU for the first time in about 60 years. The Brexit is also a direct result of too far-reaching integration, too far-reaching claims and too far-reaching European arrogance. This hard hearing is the greatest threat to the survival of the EU itself. Anyone who thought the EU was finally going to reform will be deceived again. This is turning like a boomerang against the European institutions, so that confidence is reduced even further. Where are we supposed to go? The Prime Minister in Bratislava is talking about how to do things differently and better. What kind of Europe do we really want to live in? Let us ask this essential question in this way. The SGP is in favour of European cooperation in a more limited and better way. The government seems to agree with us in the meantime. I read and hear clear lyrics. I sometimes had the idea that the government had a say in the draft election programme of the SGP at the moment. I quote: 'Not every problem deserves a European solution'. That's the SGP sound! I quote: 'Member States and the EU will have to work towards a reformed EU'. This is not an ecclesiastical reform but a politically reformed EU. That could easily come out of the SGP election programme! I say that with a view to the Prime Minister, to avoid misunderstandings. I would like to mention another wonderful quote: 'The time of an ever closer Union in all possible policy areas is over'. This means that there must be a treaty change, but it is only in the letter from the cabinet. Fantastic! These are hopeful lyrics. I'm asking the Prime Minister what he's going to do in concrete terms. I'm making some moves. In any case, there should be no European Foreign Minister. Make that clear in Bratislava. The same applies to a European army. NATO remains the cornerstone of our security, but the European countries must invest much more in their defence, in accordance with the NATO standard. It's been neglected, and we need to fix it. On the contrary, the EU needs to be rebuilt so that power returns to Heads of Government, Ministers and national parliaments. Give institutions like the European Commission a much more directing role rather than a policy-making function. It is significant that the President of the European Commission pronounces a State of the Union. As far as we are concerned, this will not happen again next year. As far as we are concerned, he is the highest official with a proper directing and coordinating function, but next. So get rid of the Commission's political nature. Create much more space for different forms and sizes of cooperation within the EU. Before you are alarmed: we have already argued for a kind of cooperative model. I refer to a report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy of May 2016. Not all Members have been able to take note of this; I have noticed that some electoral programmes have been published too early. This report sets out in a wonderful piece how cooperation can vary from country to country and from theme to topic. That's right, some kind of cafeteria model. A nice move for Rutte III cabinet, because the title of that report is: Memo to the programme committees - Themes for the next cabinet period. Do your advantage with it, Prime Minister! I'm getting to one last point. Further consideration is needed of what needs to be regulated at EU level, such as free trade, and what can be regulated at national level, such as social security and tax policy. Will the Prime Minister also include these points in the deliberations in Bratislava? I'm rounding up. The SGP is not in favour of the end of the EU or of a nexit, but the fate of the EU lies in the hands of the European leaders themselves. Do not dismiss EU criticism as populism, but take it seriously and use this momentum. I wish the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister very much strength in Bratislava.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u122	Mr. Chairman. Let me say a few general things about Bratislava. I will address in particular the questions on Brexit, the Stability and Growth Pact and security. The Foreign Minister will then address the MFF, migration, border and coast guard, defence, foreign affairs policy and climate and energy. I thought that was a good distribution: I took the main points and the rest for the Foreign Minister. First I say something about the setting of the upcoming summit. Of course it takes place... oh, is there a question already?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u123	Mr. Beertema, the Prime Minister has just begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u124	He's just coming up with his cups. Can we add a cup of Ukraine referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u125	Yeah, I actually took that at Brexit, because the subjects are linked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u126	That was a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u127	It was asked how quickly you should trigger that and what that says about the Ukraine referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u128	This wasn't an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u129	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bratislava Summit takes place in the context of the United Kingdom referendum on whether or not to remain a member of the European Union. We know the results. Against this background, we have decided to launch a process of reflection within Europe. For this cabinet, we are committed not to more Europe, but to a better Europe: a Europe that protects and delivers. We can also see that there is broad support for this approach in Europe. I note, however, that there are three complex issues that we need to look at in conjunction. The single market is crucial for creating jobs and prosperity. The first issue is how to get a Europe where the internal market is further deepened in areas such as energy, capital, services and digital, while preventing exploitation of workers and equal pay in equal situations. There's got to be a balance between those two. The second issue that arises in the context of the debate on a better functioning Europe is how we encourage countries that are under-reform. This concerns, in particular, a number of southern European countries. Finally, there is the major issue of migration. A number of specific questions will be addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, the whole issue is how we ensure that we all deliver in Europe, that everyone participates and that some countries do not have to deal with the whole burden. We all have to do this, and preferably in a way that is self-evident and not that it has to be enforced through all kinds of very complicated procedures. These three discussions take place in the context of the main debate on the road to a better Europe and not more Europe. There are two more institutional issues. Firstly, it concerns the Commission. The Netherlands strongly supports a strong European Commission. We have traditionally been a country dedicated to a European Union where the Community method is important. That's for all kinds of reasons, which we've always put forward. It is important, however, that the Commission acts as much as possible as a guardian of the European agreements. Finally, you have to perform what you agree to. At each stamp association and pigeon fancier club it is normal that you look back at the report and the action points list of the previous meeting. We must do the same in Europe. We need a list of action points, be it Coreper or the European Council. We shouldn't feel too good to see if what we decided is happening. During the Dutch Presidency, for example, we were able to adopt a whole agenda in June on deepening the internal market. At that time we agreed that we will check whether the agreements will be implemented, with the end date of 2018 that was set at that time, in sight. That's unusual. It is unusual in Europe to see how agreements are being implemented. Those are two institutional aspects that will take place in the coming months. Bratislava will not be the end point; it is more the starting point. My expectation is that this will come to full maturity towards the commemoration of the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome, at the end of March 2017. Against this background, Mr Mulder asked about Europe. You see all kinds of clubs talking to each other, you see meetings. It's a very diverse picture. On the one hand, you have the classic collaboration in the Benelux. There is nevertheless a degree of agreement on the importance of a better and not necessarily more European Union, a deepening of the market and all the aspects I mentioned. On the other hand you have the Visegrád 4. There are, of course, ideas about what should actually be the Commission's role and views on European migration policy. It is a club that meets a lot, which is relevant and has been of great value in reaching agreements on the UK in February. The V4 has played a positive and constructive role in this, but sometimes also has different views. Of course there's a classic division. A number of more liberal market economy-oriented Member States in northern Europe, the Scandinavian region, but also this region and Germany, are rapidly reaching agreement on all kinds of issues relating to the internal market, in balance with the prevention of exploitation: deep and fairer. There too you can see that this cooperation is sought. So it's a very diverse playing field. In a Europe of 27, with the UK including even 28 Member States, that is not surprising either. We still have the Franco-German axis, which sometimes functions better and sometimes less well. I mentioned the Visegrád 4. While the part of Europe with the Benelux countries, and certainly the smaller Member States, is strongly committed to a Community approach, the vision in the Visegrád 4 is much more in the direction of an intergovernmental approach. I do not think that is in their interest because it ultimately represents an imbalance in power relations in Europe, but it is a classic view. I am responding to Mr Mulder's question. It's a very diverse image in which you can't draw one single line. I have had the necessary contacts again in the last week and I notice that the Dutch agenda, which is before us this evening, resonates quite widely in Europe as a imaginable landing spot for the talks that will take place in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u130	Maybe the Prime Minister can go a little further on that. I told you, you can look for our allies geographically or by theme. How does he organize those allies? Does he often go out, does he often call or is that information so strategic that he doesn't want to share it? I am very curious to know exactly how Dutch interests are represented by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u131	We have, of course, had the advantage of the Presidency, which is appreciated in the rest of Europe. This has given the trade ministers and myself an extra number of contact moments, both by telephone and by visiting. We are making intensive use of this to bring forward our views. Mr Omtzig asked why we are actually members of the European Union association. That is, of course, under the whole letter and our approach to the Bratislava process towards the end of March next year, 60 years of the Treaty of Rome. There are a few elements, first and foremost prosperity and jobs. 2 million jobs in the Netherlands are directly linked to our export position. For the second most open economy in the world, membership of the European Union and of the single internal market is vital. If you stop doing that, you take risks with jobs and the future of millions of people. This is a second element. Cooperation in such a powerful trading bloc and also in such a value community that is the European Union offers protection. We are a small country with a large number of inhabitants and with a very high prosperity in an extremely unstable world; I call Russia, Syria and North Africa. The protection you offer each other with that collaboration is invaluable. I called it the wagon in a circle. That is a very good reason to be extremely careful about this, however frustrating the day-to-day practice of decision-making may be. The third element is the value community. That is what I am saying to Mr Omtzigt. Let me come back to Mr Mulder's question. Against this background, we are conducting all these talks and I am also looking for Bert Koenders, Jeroen Dijsselbloem and everyone involved, including Dijkhoff when it comes to migration policy, allies everywhere. Look at the agreement on migration, on which we also have close contact with Eastern Europe. Think of the crucial role played by countries such as Austria and Slovenia, but also Croatia, in February and March. Of course, there are also intensive contacts with the Czech Republic and Hungary, but also with Poland, on the implementation of the migration agreements, and on reforms, their importance, and the fact that we need to keep a strong euro within the euro area. Then there are the contacts in northern Europe to continue on the path of reforming and strengthening our economies. There is also contact with a country like Spain, which fortunately has done a lot to get out of the crisis. However, other countries are also more southern in Europe, such as France and Italy, where much more should be done. How do you turn that on? But we also have a lot of contact with that. The personal relationships are all good, too. That means calling, travelling and speaking on the European summits. The Netherlands is not trying to form a fixed kongsi with a limited number of countries, but rather to use it very widely. As the largest of the smaller economies or as the smallest of the large economies, we are the sixth economy of Europe's 28, and we are therefore the fifth economy of the euro area. We are also really bigger than the next, even considerably larger: hundreds of billions larger. So we are being listened to, both in terms of size and in terms of what we have been able to put on the mat in recent years. That gives us the position to get things done, but it also forces us not to bet unilaterally on a limited coalition. So we're doing that wide. Finally, on Mr Mulder's complicated question, I come to a complicated answer: that is often more thematic than geographical. The classic distribution of "reform takes place in northern Europe and too little in southern Europe" is too simple, if you look at a country like Spain. In the end, therefore, I would choose thematically, but with the knife on the chest forced for geographical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u132	I also asked the Prime Minister to give a hint of how the various groups, which apparently now jointly prepare for the Bratislava Summit, look at that summit and also at Europe in the future. The Prime Minister gives a little indication of how this is happening from the Benelux, from Visegrád. Could he give a similar picture of how this is seen in the southern, Mediterranean Member States, which have also had joint consultations, and in the north, in the Baltics? There is no doubt that the officials of the Prime Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs have worked hard on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u133	There are some classic dividing lines. On average, the importance of continuing reforms and strengthening economies can count on more natural enthusiasm in northern Europe than in the southern part of Europe. Here and there, the southern part of Europe is asking for relaxation. This is the traditional position of Italy, recently brought out by the Italian Prime Minister: easing or at least flexibility within the Stability and Growth Pact. There are a lot of Nordic countries, if that were to happen, which are a little concerned. So you see a number of classic dividing lines there. However, my observation is that there are also considerable differences of opinion within these groups. It is not the case that the Athens meeting leads to a kind of homogeneous attitude. Again, there are great differences of opinion. When I call colleagues from southern Europe in the area of migration or institutional reform, there is a lot of agreement. But when it comes to reforms and flexibility, there is not immediately anscluss, but there are also differences of opinion in Northern Europe. It's not like everyone's in exactly the same position there. This also gives hope that we will be able to achieve something step by step; at least to strike a balance between strengthening the internal market and at the same time combating exploitation, a balance between migration and also a balance between reforms. I think this is possible. The Netherlands has to do with the particular fact that the centre left and right coalition is still functioning well. Compromise must be sought within this framework, which must also be sought in Europe. I think people are looking at us. My attitude is: let us not make our role too big but not too small.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u134	It would help us in the debate if some of those positions of Member States were described in advance, for example, in letters, as we have spoken with each other. This makes it more visible to us which government proposals are feasible or less feasible and how they relate to the other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u135	Agreed, only then can we often not give much more than what is known in public and what we think we can share without damaging the confidentiality of conversations. Countries may no longer be so eager to call or answer the phone if it turns out that I disclose information of a more confidential nature about certain positions. So there will always have to be a certain weighting, but in general my answer is: yes, we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u136	Thank you for that willingness, because there seems to be something very disturbing here. Prior to normal EU summits with all 28 countries, we get a formal agenda. Members of parliament can therefore see the underlying documents in the EU Delegations' Portal, which has been made clear by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now we are faced with a new kind of summit, an EU-27 summit. That is not a formal meeting, nor is it in the statutes. The immediate consequence was that we could no longer find any document in that system. I understand that things don't always have to be public, especially when it comes to positions. However, it would be very helpful if this were to be a regular summit on the future of the EU. I also hope that these consultations do not have the same fate as the Eurogroup, which we do not have a formal statute for, which means that all public access is removed. Is the government prepared to make sure that the documents are made available to the public and that a report is produced afterwards? That's allowed with limitations, because I don't need to know every phone call, but I do want to know where we are. That is why this process is important enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u137	Of course, we can write a letter on what was discussed in Bratislava. However, I do not think there are any documents in the run-up to Bratislava. There'll probably be no conclusions either. So that's gonna be complicated. So that portal will remain empty, but if there are pieces, we can of course share them. At a normal European Council, we are dealing with the normal process of RAZ and plenary debate. Like Mr Omtzigt, I am not a fan of all those informal summits. This is now the first and Malta has already announced one for the beginning of next year. In the context of the whole reflection process on the road to the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, I may have to do so, but Mr Omtzigt thinks I am on his side. I, too, do not need to fly to all these capitals and do what we have done over the last six years: keeping summits in Brussels and ordinary European Councils. That is easier, clearer and more transparent. I agree with him. We will try to be as transparent as possible about these informal summits, but I am, of course, disabled. After all, I cannot know if there will always be pieces. At least not this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u138	I thank the Prime Minister for trying, but my invitation was actually to present it formally at the Council. The Prime Minister says there are no documents. In the Brussels press, for example, we see Mr Tusk's letter written to the capitals. We can find them there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u139	Yes, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u140	Such invitations, hidden agendas, should simply be available and provided with an appreciation from the government so that we can control what is happening. Otherwise, of course, this kind of debate threatens...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u141	I see the dilemma. I'll do my best. I'm not going to discuss this next Friday, because before you know it, I'm going to institutionalize an informal consultation and we're going to get a lot more of it. Let me see what I can do. I understand Mr Omtzigt's request. We all have an interest in ensuring that it is as transparent as possible. Anything that can be shared slightly with the Chamber, we shall share, if necessary confidentially. There will be a report from the Bratislava Summit anyway. I will continue my speech. I agree, among others, with Mr Mulder of the VVD, who said that we should continue to seek to strengthen the role of national parliaments. It's a good thing Juncker emphasised that in his speech today. We also emphasised this in today's letter. Other Member States, such as Poland and the Czech Republic, also agree. COSAC plays an important role in this. As far as the Bratislava Summit is concerned, Mr Van Bommel asked a little provocatively whether I had any criticism of the Commission at all. Of course, there are always things that can do better. I have already said, and this is not so much a criticism, that we strongly encourage the Commission to concentrate on the role that the Commission has on the basis of the Treaty. This also makes the Commission the least vulnerable to the movement in a number of the Eastern European countries mentioned who want to move towards a more intergovernmental European approach. The Commission's role as an independent guardian of the Treaties and the acquis is therefore crucial as it ensures a level playing field. The smaller Member States are so protected by this role of the Commission and the larger Member States know that the Commission plays this role. The less political and the more independent the Commission is as a guardian, the better it is. That is my answer to Mr Van Bommel. That is not so much a criticism, but more what we encourage the Commission to do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u142	Perhaps the answer comes to the "brexit" block, but because it has been such a long, extensive block, with all kinds of geopolitical and thematic relations between countries, I will come back to my question about the cafeteria model. Does the answer come to the block of 'brexit' or does the Prime Minister now agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u143	I wasn't really going to go into that, because we already have that cafeteria model. We have a Europe where you are or are not a member of Schengen, where you are or are not a member of the euro area and where nine countries can enter into enhanced cooperation. So that choice menu is already there. You can like that or not, but it's there. A number of essential things stand up. Membership of the internal market means that you comply with the four freedoms. You can't shop in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u144	The Prime Minister says, "I didn't intend to go into that. I find it rather odd that when a Member of Parliament asks a question about something, he says he doesn't agree. Apparently, the cafeteria model is already there and the Prime Minister doesn't think that's a problem; let's just get this straight. If he's finished his cookie, he might be able to answer the next question. Maybe he won't go into that if it doesn't suit him; I don't know. I will go on for a while, because then the Prime Minister will have some space, because I am never that long of dust. As far as the cabinet is concerned, is there or is there not a cafeteria model in Europe? The Prime Minister is telling us everywhere that it must be clear that there is no cafeteria model in the Netherlands. But as far as the cabinet is concerned, it is good that there is a Europe of all kinds of different speeds and that you can sort of sign a different European map in every legislation. That leads to a lot of confusion and fuss. Does the cabinet think that this is a good situation, which can be continued?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u145	It's a bit of a word issue. Just like in the Netherlands, you cannot have a cafeteria model when it comes to the fundamental values in a society. That was my point in Summer Guests, to which Mr Verhoeven referred. If Turks are demonstrating and then harassing a NOS reporter, you have to say: you cannot shop in our values. You can't take advantage of the freedom of demonstration as uncomfortable as it is with all those red flags through Rotterdam, but it may make it impossible for a NOS reporter to do the job. That is shopping in our values and in our achievements. I can't. The same applies, of course, to Europe. You cannot shop and say: I want to be a member of the internal market, but there is no free movement. I can't. So there is no cafeteria model at that point. If you ignore the core of the joint achievements, let us say: the freedoms, the core values and the core architecture of Europe, in which there is no mention of a cafeteria model, there are currently opportunities for tailor-made work. There is a euro area of which not everyone is a member. Not everyone participates in Schengen. There are examples of enhanced cooperation, in which, as I say, at least nine countries must participate. That's all there. You can't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u146	The Prime Minister advocates a less political role for the European Commission. Mr Juncker has just said at the start of the work of this Commission: this is the most political Commission ever. He is now also making far-reaching proposals, which are embraced, for example, to strengthen national parliaments. However, he also put forward a proposal for a foreign minister and other proposals. How does the government feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u147	Some of these proposals will be dealt with in greater detail by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for example the proposal for such a minister. The Commission may make proposals and they may go in any direction. I have no objection to that at all. We shall then consider these proposals. Some of the proposals that have been mentioned today are before us, or at least have been brought into the debate here. We are waiting for concrete proposals. We'll weigh it. I have no objection to that. The Commission also has freedom of expression. It becomes more complicated when the Commission maintains the common agreements. Let me be very specific. The Netherlands is opposed to Spain and Portugal not being kept strictly in line with the Stability and Growth Pact. If it is said that France is too big to tackle in the framework of the Stability and Growth Pact, then we think it is serious because it undermines confidence in compliance with that Pact. And, again, all those proposals Juncker made today, he can make. That is what we are talking about, and we find all sorts of things and we are waiting for concrete proposals, which we are for or against. That is the Commission acting. We can do the same here. That's freedom of speech. I am concerned now with the maintenance of the common agreements. That is very often good, but I encourage the Commission to do it well in all cases. I mentioned two examples: on the one hand Spain and Portugal and on the other hand France, where it did not go well. This does not help to maximise the Commission's support in Europe. I think it is in the Dutch interest that this is maximum. I am referring to the operation of the agreements, but it is also true in general terms, of maintaining the Community method.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u148	I get that. I can even go a long way with it. However, I do see a contradiction in the assessment of the Commission's work now. Juncker indicates that he feels at home in the most political committee ever, while the Dutch government is more or less renouncing it and making far-reaching proposals like matters falling within the scope of freedom of expression. When a Dutch minister once let his soul stirs about the death penalty go freely, there was no one who said: it is a matter of freedom of expression. Then that is perceived as something that is apparently being considered. The Prime Minister himself says: we await the concrete proposals. It's ideas that live. In that case, it can be expected that the Dutch Government will also make a clear statement on this issue, giving a qualification to the role that the European Commission attaches itself to. I repeat: the European Commission is increasingly assuming the role of a European government. That's undesirable. I think it would be appropriate if this were just said out loud by the Dutch Government, including in Bratislava.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u149	Now the monkey comes out of the sleeve. Mr Van Bommel is now trying to link the substantive debate on the political or less political role of the Commission to his own idea of not having a Commission at all. This would be disastrous for the Netherlands: being a member of the European Union and doing everything intergovernmentally. The SP proposals are one-on-one in line with what Orbán and some other Eastern European friends want. That is extremely unwise. This would really harm the Dutch interest, because, in my absolute conviction, with such an intergovernmental method, the very large Member States will dominate Europe. We really have an interest in a strong Commission. The Commission will only be strengthened if it complies with the agreements as objectively as possible. Now I'm going to go to today, to that point Juncker brought today: raising the EFSI to 500 billion. We say: first let's just evaluate what we have now and see how it goes. Perhaps some part of the Chamber wants us to be against it immediately or that we are in favour of it. However, we don't like it at all, because first we want to know exactly how the existing Juncker plan worked out. What was the Dutch interest in this? How do other countries do that? Evaluate it carefully. Moreover, there is no proposal at all. This applies to all the ideas that have been launched today. These are all ideas that still have to be put into proposals. All these proposals will then be examined in a very practical and pragmatic way. But Juncker can do that; I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u150	It is good to realise that the State of the Union, which Mr Juncker has spoken today, is the fruit of reflection on the situation that has arisen. And then it gets somewhat disturbing, because then you constantly see the aim of increasing the political nature of the Commission and the whole of the EU. My question to the Prime Minister is as follows. Is the answer given in Bratislava in the context of reflection on the future of Europe also a rebuttal of all kinds of plans dropped into the State of the Union today? And is that in line with the letter from the cabinet that we received in preparing for this consultation? It contains a number of clear statements about the government's position in certain matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u151	I find it complicated. Look at today's comments on Juncker's speech. The point is that he made a very small speech. I mean "small" in the sense of: not many new initiatives. Mr Koenders will discuss these new initiatives in greater detail, but there are, for example, a number of initiatives on defence. They are not about a European army, which we are opposed to, but well. They are, however, proposals for greater cooperation in the European defence field. Another proposal is to raise the Juncker Fund; I have just mentioned it. That's about it. He also stressed today in particular that Europe must deliver and that we must keep agreements. If I compare him with previous speeches, I find them really in line with the Commission's work programme, which we support. This is a Europe that focuses on core tasks and not unnecessarily draws things towards itself, leading to a European Parliament that has less and less to do. I am very happy about that, because it means that there is little legislation. That is a good thing. One of my goals is also a European Parliament that is becoming more and more part-time. That's what you're seeing now. I do not entirely share Mr Bishop's assessment, except for some of the proposals that have been made, but they still have to be worked out. We are all going to comment on them and they are still at the beginning of the decision-making process. And this is Juncker's turn. Of course, he can sometimes say: I think we should take a step there. Well, let him say that. Then we'll see what we think of it. We don't have to jump right on top of it, like: oh, Juncker called something! Yes, that is also his job; he is President of the Commission, so he can find something from time to time. But when I look at the whole thing, I think it's a very moderate, quiet speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u152	That was also the opinion of most MEPs who commented on that speech. Nevertheless, there are a number of angels in it, so proposals which once again represent a step towards further federalisation or European integration as they progress. I would ask the Cabinet to send out a clear message in line with the letter sent to the Chamber by the Cabinet in preparation for the debate. I ask the Cabinet to make a clear and clear statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u153	We will!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u154	I ask for a clear statement: this is not the route; we are going to... And then I ask the cabinet to include the memo of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. It specifically refers to what is now called the "cafeteria model." I'm asking the Cabinet to use that further. There are other possibilities. This does more justice to diversity in Europe and increases acceptance. I would like to ask the Cabinet to develop this further in that direction and to talk to the Chamber about the direction it is going to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u155	Take defence cooperation, for example. That's cooperation, too. In principle, the Franco-German initiative is also covered by enhanced cooperation. Other countries can participate in this. That's what Juncker gave reflections on today. He can do that. Then we will look at what we think of the first thought, how you should develop it further and where our framework conditions lie. Bert Koenders will go into that later. For example, there must be no duplication with NATO and there must be no European army. In this way, you can see within a number of frameworks what the proposals will be and, above all, whether they will lead to better counter-terrorism and better security of our interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u156	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u157	I have just mentioned the EFSI as an example. To be honest, there wasn't much more to that speech today than those two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u158	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u159	Furthermore, I think it was mainly a story of: getting back to the core tasks and carrying out the Commission's work programme, which I find pleasantly limited. Then I come to the United Kingdom. That's a complicated matter. Article 50 must be triggered by the UK before the matter is started. There's only one person who can do that, and that's the British government. I'm not gonna speculate on all sorts of "what ifs." I have had questions such as: should there be a quick answer? That's not up to me. I can only say to my English colleague that she must try to keep the limbo period we are in as short as possible. But that's not up to us. It's getting a little powerless to repeat that every week, so I don't. Why does the European Parliament choose Verhofstadt? That too was a question. That's not up to me. That is what the European Parliament is about. Another question was: what is the impact of a Brexit on the residence status of Dutch people in the UK? That depends first of all on whether they are going to trigger Article 50 at all and then on the design of the negotiations. I'm not going into any of that. Because if I were to speculate, what does that mean for the position of Dutch people?', Then we're in some sort of phony discussion ourselves that's crazy. Has the Netherlands organized itself well? Yeah, as good as possible. In cooperation with our European postal network and, of course, with our London embassy and our PV in Brussels, we look closely at mapping the force field and try to be ready as a fit boxer to put the Dutch interest at the centre when Article 50 is triggered. The Dutch interest is that the Dutch citizen will suffer as little as possible from a Brexit. Furthermore, we will do our utmost to ensure that the collective protection offered by Europe is not weakened. Will the exit procedures also immediately decide what the new relations will look like? Yeah, that's parallel. We're conducting these negotiations at the same time. In that context, of course, we will also have to look at what the UK wants right away. That will depend very much on the United Kingdom. Does it choose the Norwegian, Albanian or Swiss model? Or does the UK opt for a unique model? We can only indicate the contours. We can say: we will not negotiate until you trigger Article 50; not before. We can also say that if you want to remain a member of the internal market, you must accept all four freedoms. We cannot shop there, because I have just said that the cafeteria model does not apply. In there, the British should see how they're gonna do it. I agree with Mr Mulder who said that, of course, you should look at the consequences of these different aspects as closely as possible. It is about the negotiations on departure and the way the new relations are going to look. You do not want a vacuum between "the UK leaving the European Union" on the one hand and "what is the future relationship on the other?" That will depend very much on the transitional regime the British choose. I don't know, because that's what the UK is about. Now I come to the net payment position. It makes sense to me. If 65 million people leave the European Union immediately, it would be crazy if you continued with exactly the same amount of money that is now being spent by Europe. I think the Chamber has said something about that too. But there too, you do not know whether the UK might continue to contribute to Europe in a future relationship. There are constructions in which the UK simply continues to contribute financially. This also depends on what the UK wants, but there are many possibilities. D66 once again asked whether we want a quick and business separation. That's not up to us. That is really up to the UK itself. It was also asked: should the UK continue to pay until the end of the current nfk period? Yes, as long as the UK is a member of the European Union, all rights and obligations apply. That's gonna stop once the UK gets out of it. Whether it continues to contribute or not depends on the new relationship between the UK and Europe. Finally, the package that was in February was asked for. Against that background, the referendum took place. That package's off the table now. It was also agreed that it would apply until a British referendum had taken place. If that British referendum resulted in a result that provided for a departure from the UK, that package would lapse. That package has now expired, but there are many things in that package that appeal to us all very much. We will try to maintain them in other places, but there is no guarantee of that. That is the answer in general terms, because otherwise I will go very much into the 'what ifs', I fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u160	I am a little surprised at this answer, because I hear four times in a row that it is simply the United Kingdom. Well, if the United Kingdom does want all the benefits for free and does not want to pay any further and does not want to agree on a balanced treaty, I wonder if there is any framework. Is there any opinion in the Dutch Government on what is acceptable and what is not acceptable? I have made three very specific suggestions. I'd be delighted if the Prime Minister would go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u161	I have just said that, for us, access to the market is linked to, for example, the free movement of persons in Europe. It's connected. I hear occasionally in the British debate that that would be unplugged. Well, let me say it again to my esteemed British colleague: that cannot be separated. So if you want to keep access to the internal market, then you also have freedom of movement to accept. That is the most important condition. In the end, that is of course des Pudels Kern. They want to keep access to the internal market, is my impression from the British national political debate. That is very welcome, but that includes freedom of movement. That is, in fact, the most important condition. Furthermore, my point is not that the British decide what it's going to look like. No, the British will decide how they enter the negotiations. I do not want to say now: if they go in like this, we are going to react like this, and if they go in like this, we are going to react like this. Then we weaken our negotiating position. I don't think that's wise. In June it was also agreed that we will only talk about how we stand up to a possible British departure when we know whether they are triggering Article 50 and what is their commitment to these talks. Then we'll determine our position right away. Predicting this now with all sorts of scenarios ultimately weakens Europe's position in those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u162	It will be difficult for us to get some sense of how the Dutch government is in it. I specifically asked whether it would be conceivable for the Dutch Government to make an effort to agree on how to deal with the financial sector, to mention just one very important point. Is there gonna be a balance? Is there not a situation where the benefits are collected and the desires are picked up, but that the burden is not borne by the UK? You have an opinion on that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u163	But at the heart of the matter is that we have an internal market in Europe. Look, the reason all these big American banks are in London is because they have access to the internal market through London. Let's not fool each other. If the UK leaves the internal market, it will, of course, have a huge problem. So it will do everything in its power to keep access to that internal market. That's a strategic assumption we can just do here. This is also apparent from the national political debate in Great Britain. There are people, also on a very senior level, who say it can be done without free movement, but it is not. That simply cannot be done, because then you will have the cafeteria model that Mr Verhoeven is afraid of and so will I.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u164	For the Netherlands, the interests of Brexit are high and they are sometimes larger than those of other countries. That is why, as an auditor of this cabinet, we would like to know whether these Dutch interests are well represented. The Prime Minister says we will. But how exactly do we do that? What has already been put into effect for the forthcoming negotiations? The Prime Minister can then say "what if." Yeah, just "what if." I learned in the military that you always have to think in what if scenarios, so you're well prepared. Perhaps the Prime Minister could tell us a little more about the preparations that are now taking place for the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u165	Of course, what we think about as a cabinet is: what could they come up with and what could that mean? I just can't go into that in public. Why don't I? Because if you're going to outline that they're going to do A and we're going to react with A accent or they're going to do B and we're going to have to respond B accent for all kinds of sectors and detailed negotiations, you're going to weaken Dutch and European negotiating positions. It is really important to take it one step at a time. I have the mental position that they just stick with it as long as they haven't triggered Article 50. That is why I have some difficulty with all those informal summits that are coming up with the 27 and without the UK. As long as the UK does not trigger it is a full member of the European Union and it has all the rights and obligations and we simply continue to do business from that position. In the meantime, we will continue to think in case the UK triggers Article 50. But, yes, all those A-accents, B-accents and C-accents are going to explain, is exactly what Britain would like and before you know it, they'll play the 27 apart. This strengthens their negotiating position and weakens ours, precisely because of these great interests. Then the Netherlands is really in the top 3. When it comes to this strong connection with our trade relations, I don't want it. But the objective is clear, namely to ensure that the internal market remains intact as much as possible. If the UK wants to stay with it, it means accepting the freedoms and keeping up the posture as much as possible, Europe's appearance as a strong embedding of national interests, even if the UK decided to leave. One more question has been asked about the Ukraine referendum. The Chamber knows what the government is doing on that point. A convincing "no" came out of the consultative referendum. That immediately translates into the non-signature of the association agreement, which I believe is called'submissioning a repeal law'. I am convinced that the other 27 Member States will continue to do so. They're gonna have to take care of a few things legally, but it can go on. I believe that we will not do justice to the no-thumb, because he thought the treaty was off the table, which is not. I therefore believe that we should consider whether we can find a substantive answer with 28 Member States to the concerns raised in the debate ahead of 6 April. I don't think there's much chance that this will work, as I've said before. I think there's a better chance that this won't work than it will. So there is still a greater chance that we will table a repeal law than that we will be able to formulate an answer, but I think it is valuable to try to do so. For example, with 28 Member States, you can address concerns in the social debate in the Netherlands, such as whether the Treaty was pre-accession, which means more money and what happens with the fight against corruption and defence cooperation. Then we will give a substantive answer to the outcome of the referendum. I think that we are doing more justice to the no vote than if we did not ratify and everything would go on without the Netherlands. That's what we're trying to do. I can't make any predictions about speed. It's extremely complex. We are dealing with a force field in Europe, and with Ukraine itself. If there is an outcome and Ukraine says that it no longer needs to be, we must also take that into account. So we try to do it as wisely as possible. That's a step-by-step process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u166	I do not want to go into the timing, but the Prime Minister says: if we do something right now. That would be 150 days later. That's not exactly my definition of "immediately." If you have to pay taxes to Secretary of State Wiebes and say "immediately 150 days," you have some warrants on your pants. I was triggered by another point, namely that the Prime Minister says that it will continue if we do not participate. This is a mixed treaty. This can only come into force if the EU and all its Member States have ratified the Convention at the moment, 28 years ago and, of course, the other party, Ukraine. If the Netherlands does not ratify, a new treaty with Ukraine cannot even be concluded within the Union framework under Union Treaty law. On the basis of what analysis does the Prime Minister say that this association agreement in substance, not in its form, will stand if the Netherlands were to table a repeal law that would be accepted by both chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u167	Based on the Fiscal Compact of December 2011. The UK refused to participate, and in the end, I think, Hungary has also dropped out. When the UK dropped out, it was not possible to make that thing Community. That's when we did it intergovernmentally. You can do that now. I do not think that the 27 other countries will let it go if the Netherlands does not sign. They sit around each other and intergovernmentally, just as Mr Omtzigt says, do material 99.9% of what is on the table. That's my political assessment. Maybe I'm wrong, but I think that's a big chance. My view is that Jan Roos and all the other no-voters then eventually got a cat in the bag, because they expected that a no-vote would be the whole thing off the table. I therefore consider it valuable to consider whether the substance of the no vote can be addressed to 28 Member States. Once again, if we can do that, we will have to wait and see. I'm not optimistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u168	I understand the example of the Fiscal Compact. Indeed, that treaty was not signed by all EU Member States. There are more examples of leading groups, but this is the most important one; that is why the Prime Minister also calls it. But that is a treaty between EU countries. The EU is not formally a party to the Fiscal Compact. There are endless discussions in Brussels about whether to use the buildings of the institutions, and we cannot go to the EU Court because not all parties have signed the treaty. An association agreement between the EU and Ukraine is not an association agreement with the EU at all, because it cannot be signed by the other 27 Member States because part of it is exclusive of the EU's competence. Such a treaty is therefore not possible at all. I would therefore like to know on what basis the Prime Minister concludes that they will do so. I don't think they're gonna get that far legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u169	I think so, because 27 sovereign countries can simply make an intergovernmental agreement with another country. That will materially, is my expectation, largely consist of what is now on paper. I expect they will. That's a political assessment. We sure as hell don't know it, but that's a big chance, and you're gonna have a cat in your pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u170	But 80% of the treaty...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u171	This is your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u172	80% of the Treaty consists of acquis communautaire of EU legislation. Then you would regulate the acquis communautaire of EU legislation in a treaty where the EU itself should not be a party. That's gonna be a weird treaty. The Prime Minister is making a proposal here that I do not think is going to succeed at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u173	I'm not making a proposal, I'm sketching out what I expect to happen. The importance that the other 27 Member States attach to the Convention is so great that I expect them to find their way, should the Netherlands not sign it. Mr Omtzigt mentioned all the problems that would arise. I said that this cannot be the current text, so that text needs to be converted. You will have a different legal basis, intergovernmental, 28 Member States and so on. But they're going to find their way to do grossly, grossly, what's on the table right now, without the Netherlands. That wasn't the intention of the no vote. The meaning of the no-voice what that thing would go off the table. So here you can also see that a referendum on an international treaty is extremely unfortunate, because you cannot always stop it as the Netherlands, by definition. The best you can do is say, "We don't sign." I think that the chance that we will eventually file that repeal law is still greater than we do not, but I still find it attractive to consider whether you can provide a substantive answer to that no vote. You'll get more for the no vote on balance than if we don't sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u174	The intention of the no vote was to withdraw the treaty. That is quite a radical change to an earlier position. Let me get this straight. The Prime Minister is doing a comprehensive description of what he thinks would happen if the Netherlands did not ratify. I assume he has discussed this extensively with the other EU Member States and the Commission. Is the vision he presents here based on conversations he has had with other EU countries or is this the result of an internal exercise in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u175	This is my political assessment of what happens if the Netherlands does not sign. I'd like to give it to you for a better one. I note that Mr Omtzigt does not agree, but I expect this to happen. The importance these other 27 capitals attach to these agreements is so great that they will find a way forward. My political belief is that they're going to find it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u176	It's a lot of words. I would like to get this straight for those 4,113,613 valid votes that have been cast. 61% voted against. The Prime Minister's promise was to come forward with a response as soon as possible after 23 June. After that, it was for the summer. It then became the European Summit on 28 and 29 June. Now we understand it's not actually gonna happen. Maybe it's good to notice that for the Acts. Is that the position, because the Prime Minister is still trying to weigh that no and cannot fill it in further? That no was very clear to the electorate: no was no. What's the story?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u177	I think Mr Beertema is a handsome man who is so good at formulating this. I'm just saying that it's my political assessment that no is not a no at all. If we propose to the parliament that the Netherlands does not sign in the end, then the no vote gets its no. I still think there's a good chance that's gonna happen. My expectation is that the no-vote will then see that it will almost all go on, but without the Netherlands. That wasn't the intention of the camp. Let's be clear about that. I dare to make that assessment on the basis of the debate in the run-up to the referendum. I find it valuable, then, to see if you can correct the substantive objections that have been raised. I just mentioned a few and there are others. It's complicated. The "as soon as possible" still stands. It's still "as soon as possible." That doesn't change. But it's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u178	You indicate on all sides that it was complex, is and will remain. Why do we have to wait more than 150 days for this withdrawal? Just do it. Then you do justice to the voice of the Dutch people, who have spoken for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u179	Mr Bertema's party was for the no-camp. That no-camp has won convincingly. I am convinced that the noe camp will say "I have bought a cat in the bag" if it turns out that the Netherlands does not sign and it is largely all going on. I say to this no-comb: give me a chance to see if we can address the objections in substance. That's what we're working on. If we cannot do so, we will not ratify it. But, in my political opinion, it will all go on. That's really going to happen; that's what I'm predicting to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u180	I do agree with the Prime Minister's political assessment. I think he's right when he outlines that the 27 other countries will continue. That is why D66 said: we want this implementation as soon as possible. But the cabinet has been given the opportunity by this Chamber, at least by the PvdA and the VVD, to look for a solution. The PVV's coming up with a law to rescind it. That's the one-sided, one-dimensional way of thinking. However, there are also parties who are willing and willing to offer room for an alternative to withdrawal. The Prime Minister doesn't make it easy for those parties. I totally agree that you should do justice to the results, but you can't put parties like D66 and the CDA in the waiting room for so long and keep saying: as soon as possible; I can't say anything about it; it's all very complicated. You can't do that if it's been over 150 days. Can the Prime Minister do something to ensure that there is a sense of urgency in the cabinet and that there is clarity towards the Chamber about the implementation of "as soon as possible" in that complex process? We cannot wait endlessly for a solution as an alternative to the withdrawal of ratification. The Prime Minister understands that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u181	I understand that, and I also understand that Mr Verhoeven says: because we have no further insight into what is happening behind the scenes, we assume that nothing will happen. I understand that, but I can assure him that's not true. There is a tremendous amount of work behind the scenes to see which forms are conceivable. That is extremely complex. Then you have to deal with the route to be chosen, the question of whether this is even possible in the Member States, the question of whether you are still doing justice to that no vote. That is extremely complex. We are working very hard on this administratively and politically: what could be a route? I understand what Mr Verhoeven is saying, I understand that he is encouraging us to make it as short as possible, because the line is stretched too far, but I cannot now outline which route we are thinking of, because then the chances of it becoming that route will be much smaller. Nor can I say with certainty when we come up with something, but I can say with certainty that I understood Mr Verhoeven very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u182	That's a lot to do tonight anyway. My party needs the cabinet to show something of the process. Show us something about when it can actually be discussed at a summit. The Prime Minister has said so far: the Brexit dominates everything; if I come with it now, I am laughed at. I thought that was understandable at the time. The summer was over, there were events around the coup in Turkey and migration policy, but there must be a moment when the cabinet puts the issue fully on the agenda of a European summit or other consultations, so that the Chamber can anticipate a follow-up step, which will clarify...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u183	Agreed!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u184	I understand very well that the Prime Minister cannot pass on any intermediate steps, that he cannot indicate a direction of thought, but I ask him to give the Chamber as much guidance as possible so that at least we feel that steps are being taken and that at some point something is going to come up. My party can't keep waiting. At some point it reaches the ceiling "as soon as possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u185	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u186	Do something that can be done within all the possibilities that there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u187	I can't do that tonight, but as soon as I get a little bit... Again, I hear Mr Verhoeven very clearly and I think it's perfectly reasonable what he's saying. We cannot make any more haste than we already are. I can assure Mr Verhoeven that we will not lose a moment. As soon as we can outline such a step in public, we will do so immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u188	This point is now threatening to run away completely. First it was before summer, now it's after summer. The PvdA talks about the autumn and the Prime Minister keeps repeating: as soon as I have something to say, I will come to you. All this is called "as soon as possible" and can be translated as "Sint-Juttemis." Can we at least get the Prime Minister's promise that a letter will be sent to the Chamber in September? Can that promise be fulfilled, or will it be the autumn or the end of the year or the elections? What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u189	I have just given the answer to Mr Verhoeven. I can only give insight into a next step as soon as possible given the state of the conversations that take place behind the scenes. I heard Mr Verhoeven correctly. He says he's willing to take a constructive look at what the cabinet is doing. He is right to say that he wants the repeal law first and only then in conversation, that a majority of the Chamber did not want it and that that is the situation now. He's willing to give the cabinet a chance, but it shouldn't take too long. I agree with him. I consider that to be an incentive to speed up and speed up the process, not to do so with even more energy as quickly as possible. I cannot now tell Mr Van Bommel when or where that will be. That's why the conversations are still going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u190	It shouldn't take too long. It's been taking too long, in my opinion. I would have liked it to happen immediately after the referendum, possibly immediately after the Brexit. The Prime Minister says it shouldn't take too long. When's too long for him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u191	You can't cut that. We will come up with proposals if we expect them to have a reasonable landing ground. It could also be that the discussions behind the scenes lead us to the conclusion that we cannot come up with a proposal that reflects the substantive objections raised in the referendum discussions. We will then come forward with a repeal proposal. It may also be that we think there are opportunities for it. We are going to try to negotiate this openly in Brussels as soon as possible. Then it may still be that these negotiations fail, because it will be really complicated. I would also like to say a few words about Mr Omtzigt. He's gone. Oh, he's here. He's asking about my assessment of what's gonna happen. It's worse. I've been given the exact percentages by the administration. The association agreement that is now under way and on which the referendum has taken place is largely about competences that lie in the hands of the Commission, EU-only. This means that, if this treaty is removed, the Commission can present an EU-only treaty which corresponds 85% in substance to the current one, but which is not dependent on the agreement of any Member State. That's 85%. Then you have 15% left and you can possibly do a number of intergovernmental things there. Then it slowly adds up to 90% to 95%. That's really the situation. I am convinced that if this happens in the end, people will rightly feel very bought, so I say again to Mr Bertema and all the no-voters. The SGP has asked me a question about complex and so on. I think I've already answered that question in the discussion. We do not see anything in this European unemployment insurance. We have been asked whether we can stop funds if Member States do not comply with the agreements. It's possible. The Stability and Growth Pact provides for the possibility of suspending claims on the European Structural and Investment Funds. Steps for greater security and the exchange of information between intelligence services have been asked. A lot is happening through the Netherlands. The AIVD DG and its people, a club that delivers impressive performance, have given an impetus to the Counter Terrorism Group over the past year under the Dutch Presidency. That is a European platform. I went to work there this week. It is now also physically designed, so that people are permanently stationed. It's really impressive. There is intensive operational cooperation and exchange of information on a regular basis. This minimises misunderstandings and communication failures and maximizes the proximity of the network to those who threaten our way of life. It's really something to be proud of. It is a Dutch initiative from the AIVD. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions that were asked to me. Within the division of roles outlined to you, it is my polite suggestion that Mr Koenders should take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u192	What has not been mentioned, even though it really belongs to the general part, is the deepening we should make. What has happened in Europe that the basis for the European project has been abandoned? That support among the Dutch population and many other peoples in Europe was still massive decades ago and I do not therefore have a ready-to-use answer to that question. I do not expect that from the Prime Minister, but I do expect attention to be paid to it. That brings me to the very simple proverb 'unknown makes unloved'. European politicians are not known. There is no one who knows or feels connected to them. This aspect may require explicit attention. Does the Minister agree with me that it deserves this attention and is he prepared to make an effort to ensure that this element is included on the agenda in Brussels or Bratislava?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u193	So Juncker, Schultz and Verhofstadt are more on television; that's going to help I understand. Apart from those people, the answer will have to be sought somewhere. European cooperation came about after the war through the European Coal and Steel Community, assuming that at least you would have made the raw materials with which you could wage war in common. That's where it started. That perspective of no more war has then become the ambition to increase common prosperity through the internal market and the European Community. In this way, the Union has become the largest and most powerful trading bloc in the world, with half a billion people. That trading bloc is leading and does not know its equal. The combined prosperity of the European Union, that trade bloc, the values community of the European Union, is enormous. In that sense, it is a success. It was understandable from the point of view of the single market, Maastricht 1992 and the ambition to create a single currency that the Union sought more areas where cooperation could expand. It is not only my fear but also my analysis of the whole problem that this has created some sort of automation in order to continue to integrate. I have always found the ever closer union that has been included in all kinds of treaty texts a horrible term, because it has made it clear that sovereign, autonomous countries in the Union are working together in the interests of their peoples in very important areas. In the interests of that cooperation, countries were prepared to take joint responsibility. It has become too much of an end in itself. It was no longer connected to people's lives and, moreover, it was no longer visible to people what enormous added value it brought. Brexit now reveals the colossal risks you take when you don't have it. England is in very big trouble right now. Very big problems! Growth is falling, the currency is falling and there are constitutional problems. There are parties here who say "we should do that here too." They are therefore prepared to take the same risks with people's jobs and interests. What we need to do is to ensure that Europe goes back to its core tasks and that Europe no longer deals with all kinds of things where it does not add value. It is about the internal market. It's about collective defense. It's about the external borders. It's about asylum policy. It's about monitoring our community of values. That's what we need to focus on, not on other things. That is what this Commission is really doing, because that is the Commission's work programme, a programme that this government is fully supporting. I understand that Mr Grashoff is now saying that he wants to carry out three further studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u194	No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u195	He wants Luc van Middelaar to do an investigation. We already have that beautiful book "The passage to Europe" from him. We can all read that. There are other books to be found, and we all know them, for example the diaries of the founders of the European Union. In the end, we will also have to make a political assessment and make a political assessment of where the problem is. It calls not only for scientific judgement but also for political judgment. I am giving that here and Mr Grashoff will perhaps make a different assessment. I see that the chairman is not waiting for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u196	This question, of course, raises a great many questions, including the history of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u197	It's a nice question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u198	It is indeed a nice question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u199	It seems to me only right that this question raises a great deal. To be honest, I think it is still far too little, because we will have to deepen this aspect with each other and at least translate it into attempts to shape it. The simple answer "let's look for it again in losing European cooperation" is de facto what the Prime Minister is now suggesting. He does that while he will have to step up this cooperation in a number of areas, because that is urgently needed. I think that the Prime Minister and I will probably reach an agreement on that very quickly. So we carry this problem with us. What strikes me is that the socio-cultural element of this is almost made a bit laughy when you mention it, while I think it is an aspect that requires very thorough study, as well as concrete efforts to deal with it. We must not only look for it in the sphere of institutional cooperation and in the 'back to core tasks'. That's really not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u200	But still... I will reply very briefly to Mr Grashoff, President. I understand what he's saying, and I understand his ambition. But we're also politicians. Mr Grashoff, too, must finally come out of the study phase and draw political conclusions. We can't stick to the analysis, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u201	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u202	Madam President. I would like to begin with a number of conclusions which the Prime Minister has drawn and which have implications for certain policy areas. In this respect, I would like to take up the last of the questions put by Mr Grashoff. I think that the letter itself clearly indicates the lines along which we want to operate in Bratislava. The core themes are well known. It is a modern European Union, which better respects its own principles and rules. Furthermore, we are talking about a Europe that protects and performs better, and Members have asked a number of questions about this, which I shall address, particularly in the area of migration and external security. There has been an element which two Members have spoken of, namely that there is a need for passion on the one hand, while on the other hand we must make it very clear that we must also find a very operational path which responds to the concerns of our citizens. That should not be some vague middle ground, but it should be a very result-oriented road, which is indeed trying to strike a balance. I think Mr Mulder spoke about this and keeps it between those who think that you can improve the process by always taking a huge federal step further and those who simply want to destroy the European Union; we also see those forces in Europe. Let us look at this and get more specific. The letter contains a number of points on which questions have been asked. Firstly, there is the issue of migration, on which a number of specific questions have been asked. What is the government's commitment to external borders? As we know, during the Dutch Presidency, we made a special effort to establish a European Border and Coast Guard. This will enable us to respond more quickly and better to changing migratory flows, including by deploying staff and equipment to support Member States with high migratory pressure. That's what we're doing now. For a common European asylum and migration policy, we need more Europe at the moment, not necessarily with new institutions, but in practice. People need to be delivered, that Coast Guard needs to work. We have set this up together with the Commission and Member States. The focus should now be on the implementation of the European Border and Coast Guard Regulation. This applies specifically to Frontex's extensive return mission and the Agency's obligation to assess the vulnerabilities at the external borders. That is where very concrete progress is being made. As we know, an agreement has been reached on the European Border and Coast Guard under the Dutch Presidency. With such an agreement, it has almost never happened so quickly. To do something like this, you really need to have all the countries together. Today is the good news that final approval has been obtained in the Council. Now it comes to the implementation of the agreements. The European Commission wants to do this quickly, partly under pressure from the Netherlands, but also on its own. President Juncker has indicated that the first deployment of this Border and Coast Guard should and will be visible in October. We support that ambition. So that went really fast. We have been asked about the situation on the Greek islands. The government believes that it needs further improvement, with Greece having to step up its efforts to ensure the careful and effective return of migrants. The cabinet remains in close contact with the European Commission and the Greek authorities through various channels. It is also important that the agreed agreements on resettlement and relocation are implemented effectively and carefully. Mr Verhoeven, I believe, has asked whether there is pressure on Bulgarian borders. The answer to that question is yes. Bulgaria has also asked Frontex for help. It is about 150 men border support plus equipment. In the first instance, the Netherlands directly deployed three employees and a patrol vehicle via Frontex. This will be reinforced from this week onwards with two employees of the Royal Marechaussee and a patrol vehicle. The Netherlands therefore directly supplies butter to the fish. I think that's what we need to talk about. If our citizens are concerned about bringing migration under control according to current laws and humanitarian principles, you need to reach decisions very quickly. This was achieved under the Dutch Presidency. Then the Member States must also supply butter with the fish. Apart from all kinds of institutional discussions, it's really about not blaming each other. This is also important in the discussions over the coming months. The Commission should not blame the Council, and the Council in turn should not blame Parliament. These are very specific issues, where citizens want to see results and where countries need to be helped, in this case Greece and Bulgaria. You really have to do that and you have to shape such a problem in a way that fits European values and standards. A number of questions have been asked about the finances. Next week, the Commission will present to the General Affairs Council a so-called mid-term review of the Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union. It is therefore a mid-term evaluation, to put it in good Dutch. A first response from the Member States will follow. The Commission will disseminate the mid-term evaluation prior to the presentation. This is expected to happen in the coming days. I therefore have little news to tell about the content of this and about the Dutch commitment. However, the Chamber was already informed on 12 July of the Dutch position regarding the mid-term evaluation of the MFF. I sent the Chamber the Dutch non-paper which was also sent to the Commission. All the credit for this to the Chamber of which this has been an initiative, in particular of the D66 Group, which has been supported by other political groups. I think those discussions are an example of how to deal with this. Commissioner Georgieva has been here and we have spoken with a number of finance and foreign and European ministers. The European Parliament has also been involved, so that not everyone would take up their old-fashioned positions again and be individually afraid to become net contributors or net recipients. We need to look precisely at what whole we need, in terms of added values. We will examine the Commission's proposal in the light of the elements also described in the non-paper, such as not raising ceilings for maximum expenditure. We need more room to respond to unforeseen expenditure and changing priorities. I think that was really essential, and so did almost everyone, including parliamentarians and groups who spoke about what exactly we want with that budget. We need to be able to respond much more politically to priorities and we need to avoid putting too much pressure on the last years of the MFF. Effectiveness and efficiency in expenditure must be ensured and the budgetary process must become much more predictable and transparent. I think that we have had enough debates on this over the past period, because nobody is actually happy with the way it is going. This also has to do with the whole problem of statistics and post-taxation. When does that happen? And is that becoming more insightful for citizens? I shall, of course, inform the Chamber by letter of the content of our position so that it can exercise its influence on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u203	The Prime Minister took a lot of time to answer the questions, but the Foreign Minister is really rushing through the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u204	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u205	I've fallen behind because of that. If I may, I would like to ask a very brief question about his answer in relation to Bulgaria. What does the pressure on the Bulgarian-Turkish border mean for the Turkey deal? The Foreign Minister says every time that we have closed the Turkey deal, because we want to prevent all kinds of people from drowning through shady boats. Beautiful! That's a good bet. We are also in favour of preventing this. However, there are sharp edges to the Turkey deal. At the Bulgarian-Turkish border, a lot of migratory pressure is now emerging. I would like a response from the Foreign Minister. What does that mean for the deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u206	Nothing. That deal's not gonna happen. There are two important elements in the agreements of the last period. The first is the agreement with Turkey. We see that traffic on the route through the Greek islands has become much less. There are still numbers and each number is too many, with the risk that people will die. The second element is that we also want the route through the Balkans to be well closed. Both elements provide management of the migration flow. It is therefore important to be prepared for this at any time and to ensure that it remains securely closed. That is why we cooperate when a country requests that the borders be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u207	The idea of the Turkey deal and the way in which the cabinet sells that deal as a success is that there would no longer be any great pressure, that the pressure of migrants on the continent of Europe would have fallen dramatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u208	There is no doubt that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u209	That is absolutely the case when it comes to the Turkish-Greek crossing by water, yes. That's right, with all the negative consequences that the deal has, but that's not what I'm talking about. But if the flow of refugees now goes to Bulgaria via the Turkish country, then that deal will be of little use to us. That's where I care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u210	Yes, I understand your concern. I also said that they are always both elements. The European Union continues to have the same responsibility to adequately protect its external borders. You can never become completely dependent on the relationship with Turkey. It is a crucial element and everyone sees that these figures have fallen dramatically, but as we help the Greeks, we also help the Bulgarians. The most important thing is that we take both insurance policies, the Balkan route and the agreement with Turkey very seriously. I come to a very important point: security and defence. First of all, I would like to mention a number of things that we do not want, because I understand very well the feeling of the Chamber in this matter. Brexit does not pave the way for a European army. We in the Netherlands are not for that either. European countries already cooperate intensively in the defence field, including within the framework of the European Union and NATO. For example, the Netherlands has very intensive defence cooperation with countries such as Germany and Belgium. It is also important for each country to decide on the deployment of its own units, as Mr Mulder said. It's gonna stay that way. There is no question of a European army with a European general being led by someone somewhere in Europe, not even in Mr Juncker's proposals. We have agreed here that the broadcast of military personnel is under the responsibility of the Dutch Government. That is a sovereign decision on which the Constitution informs the Chamber. I would also point out to the PVV Group that we always keep the final command in the Netherlands. We can transfer it on certain elements, as we do in NATO and the UN, for example. There is always an element of division of sovereignty, because otherwise you cannot work together. I think the PVV thinks that's important, too, because if you don't, you can't control an army properly. But that is not the case in the European Union. Nevertheless, there is a situation that requires an answer. Just when there is a risk, let me just mention it for a moment, depending on the triggering of Article 50, while at the same time there is a large unstable edge around Europe, and changing transatlantic relations, I think it is important that there is a consensus in the European Union that we should take even more responsibility for our own peace and security. The Netherlands sees this as a very pragmatic approach. I agree with those who have said that we should not duplicate matters that are already being dealt with in NATO. However, we are far beyond the last ten years, when there was a real difference in schools between those who said this was NATO and that European Union. At the last NATO summit, you saw that there was cooperation with the European Union. Everyone's looking at their perks. The Secretary-General of NATO and the High Representative, Mrs Mogherini, have concluded a cooperation agreement, which we have approved. It is not so much the duplication or the federalisation of command structures that is important, but a clear strengthening of European cooperation. I think we are a little more positive about that. It is important, for example, to better manage civilian-military missions, which are the missions that we broadcast internationally in the context of migration management. In this context, the Prime Minister will bring forward at the Bratislava Summit that we want to strengthen. If enhanced cooperation can play a role, we are in favour of it. So we don't want to double NATO headquarters. There are already national headquarters that can be deployed for EU missions. My own experience is that we really need reinforcements for civilian-military missions. Along these lines we will operate on the basis of the ideas that make sense in themselves. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Anyone who does not read Europe's geopolitics and responsibility should also see it as positive that this is a point where we cannot do it on our own and for which enhanced European cooperation is important. I have been asked what the Netherlands thinks of the proposal by the President of the European Commission, Juncker, for a defence fund. Again, it is a proposal from the Commission that we are going to assess. He said that he would come forward with a proposal for an EU defence fund to boost research and development in the field of defence by the end of the year. There were no details mentioned and no amount. Those are two important elements to approve or reject something. We must therefore wait for the concrete proposal. Let me add that there is a risk of fragmentation of money. The fact that we do a lot of things separately costs incredibly much money. If you work together wisely, even in this area where economies of scale can be achieved, this is probably beneficial for a country like the Netherlands. We are going to look precisely at the proposals. We already support the Commission's preparatory action. The Minister of Defence has welcomed the proposal to reserve funds for this purpose for the period 2017-2019. What does the Netherlands think of a European Foreign Minister? If you are Secretary of State yourself, of course you look at it slightly critically. That's how we all do it. Juncker argues that the High Representative Mogherini should become our Foreign Minister and be used jointly through our diplomatic means to obtain joint leverage. That's about how he described it. Let's take a pragmatic look at that. There will be no European Foreign Minister operating with the same sovereignty because we do not have a European State. I support the High Representative in many areas, because I know that at the time of our lives, with Syria and the enormous consequences that it has for the refugee flows, for what is happening in Turkey and Europe, we can really do better with each other than we all take a different position. We are not taking positions, because it remains something we should agree on together. There is also simply a right of veto when we disagree on a number of things. I don't have much objection to that reinforcement of the position. During our Presidency, we have shaped this as we wanted it to be. I think that was a sensible approach, which hasn't changed either. Finally, there is this global strategy, which also has security political consequences. Groups of Member States may jointly carry out diplomatic work to enhance European leverage. We do this, for example, with the migration compact. It is very sensible that the High Representative should coordinate this and strengthen that position with a number of Member States that have comparative advantages in shaping that policy effectively. Let there be no misunderstanding, however, that we want to stay away from something that has to do with treaty changes on this issue, other competences that are not currently there in the Treaty of Lisbon or some sort of symbolic policy in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u211	The Minister expressed an expectation: there will be no European Minister for Foreign Affairs. Why, then, does the Netherlands not make that noise clear in Bratislava: we do not want a European Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u212	I say what we think about this publicly in Parliament. Mr Van Bommel makes another slogan: we do not want this. I'm not for that, and I'll let the Chamber know what I'm for. The Prime Minister will pass that on to colleagues in Bratislava.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u213	I don't make it a slogan; Juncker started it. Will the Dutch Government say quite clearly that we do not need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u214	I said what I said about that. This means that there will not be a European Minister for Foreign Affairs in the sense of a new competence, which would restrict, for example, my competence or that of other colleagues and would require a treaty change. I'm not for that. If that is enough, I would like to leave it at that. Questions have been asked about CETA. With all due respect, there will be a VAO on that tomorrow morning with a debate with the Foreign Trade Minister. That is a really complicated problem. She's been discussing it with your colleagues all afternoon. I do not think it would be wise to take elements out of that, now that it is still part of tomorrow's debate. With your permission, I shall refer these questions to tomorrow's debate. I come to the ratification of the Paris Agreement. The cabinet strongly supports the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement. There is no limitation by the Dutch Government. We welcome the recent announcements by China and the United States on ratification. We believe that the European Union should follow this example quickly, because it is a so-called mixed agreement. That is what the Chamber often wants with this kind of agreement. This means that ratification is needed both at EU and national level, so this cannot be done as quickly as possible. The cabinet strives to send the national ratification law to the Chamber as soon as possible. The last question to me concerns the rule of law: what do you think about the Hungarian Government holding a referendum on the arrival of refugees on 2 October? Let me be very clear about this. Hungary became a member of the European Union. That club has rules and makes decisions according to those rules. In the area of migration, too, the European Union has taken decisions in accordance with the rules. You cannot and must not agree with that; let there be no misunderstanding about that. You can then challenge that decision in court. As far as I am concerned, as far as the Hungarian Government is concerned, this is a step further. That's outside the rules, too. Budapest is not organizing a referendum from the people, but Orbán itself decrees: I do not like that and now I am going to present a referendum to my people in order to destroy European solutions by issuing this referendum. That is not good will, but evil intent; that is a sausage practice. This strengthens Hungary's disagreement, just when unity is needed in the important area of migration policy. I think that's really negative. That destroys the European Union rather than improves the situation. Mr. Chairman. Those were the answers to the questions I was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u215	Mr Bertema has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u216	I should have responded sooner, because it's a question for the Prime Minister. I had asked him another question about the consequences of European unemployment insurance. I invited him to say to me: no, Mr Beertema, there is no euro for the unemployed Greeks, Spaniards, Italians and Portuguese.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u217	I said that we are against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u218	And you also say: there is no euro going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u219	We are against that proposal, so we are not going to do that. That would be weird, wouldn't it? We are all carrying out reforms in Northern Europe or here in the Netherlands, putting our finances in order and seeing unemployment fall. A quarter of a million jobs have been created in the last period. You can see that the policy works and that the economy attracts. It is therefore also important that, despite the fact that we had to hold interim elections, we have managed to get the economy under control. Employment is growing again. The government deficit is falling. Competivity is increasing. Wouldn't it be weird that you would finance countries where that doesn't happen with a WW benefit? We are, of course, opposed to that. That makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u220	Well, then a lot of voters are reassured. Mr Rutte says that there is no euro going to the Greek unemployed and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u221	We shall now proceed to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u222	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer and the commitment to give some clarity. This came unexpectedly about the Ukraine referendum, because we have asked several times which part of the treaty was now EU-only, for example in Question 2079 of Parliament Question 3. We then received a very long answer, but the 85% and the articles were not included. So perhaps at some point the government can indicate which part of the EU Association Treaty is EU-only, because that is quite important to determine what is happening. I have two motions. Of the first, the government has promised a part, except for the second part. That's why I'm filing her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the creation of a new EU-27 gremium;]] [[noting that there is no formal documents and cabinet commitment available for this gremium, so that control of these new summits is likely to become very problematic;]] [[noting that the government itself claims to strive for better transparency;]] [[invites the Government, the Chamber for each meeting to send the letter of invitation, relevant documents and cabinet deployment and a report at the end;]] [[calls on the Government to seek to ensure that information on these summits is guaranteed at EU level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. dossier/21501-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u223	On the second request, I would like a commitment. The Foreign Minister rightly said that the MFF non-paper was very important for the outcome. I hereby make an invitation to write such a non-paper about the future. It is no shame that the Dutch Government does not achieve everything it wants. That's how we do things here in the Chamber, but that's not how it works with the 27 of us. But if you say clearly what your bet is, it might help. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that no substantial changes can be made within the European Union without acceptance;]] [[noting that the government wants to take the lead in changing European Union;]] [[calls on the government to write a (non) paper on how it intends to regain citizens' confidence in Europe, including the concrete measures it intends to take and not to take;]] [[calls on the government to share this paper with Parliament within two months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u224	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the government for answering all the questions. First of all, thank you for the answers about the Brexit. The Prime Minister says all the time: I'm not about it; not what-ifs. But he has indeed outlined the outlines within which it should remain when it is to be chosen, including with regard to the cafeteria model. Thank you for that clarity. The government was even clearer about Ukraine. I believe we have understood each other very well. I really hope that this will lead to what would be very pleasant for my party, so that we can make a good choice to accommodate the camp as well. What I fear is a Europe of new key words. "Protection" and "Delivery" have now become the new code words, but that's part of it. In delivering, the Prime Minister says that compliance with results is also part of the process of defending compromises in your own parliament. Protection also includes making choices in the field of defence and genuinely daring to move forward in the area of cooperation, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. But sometimes I find that too much light in the cabinet. So that's a point of interest. I hope things are getting better. I also find it strange that, according to the Prime Minister, the European Parliament and the Commission should have little work to do and that it is good. I think that is a strange remark in the light of the whole migration package, which is going to produce an enormous amount of legislation. I'd like to get a reaction to that. And there's more legislation. Finally, I would like to address my esteemed colleague from the PVV. I thought how wonderful you could write such a short election program! They've kept it incredibly short and powerful. However, the reason for this is that they have no ideas. They just don't know. Mr Bertema didn't know all about it today. He had no idea. Soon we will be visiting Finland and Norway in the framework of the European Affairs Commission. Mr Bertema has not yet applied. I would very much like him to go along with us to broaden the debate, but also to draw up new ideas in order to come up with alternatives and proposals that he has remained far from today. So I hope he'll come with us on a trip.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u225	Mr. Chairman. The proposals put forward by President Juncker surprised me. They're so far-reaching that you can say they're strictly subject to freedom of speech, but that kite doesn't go on as far as I'm concerned. Those are not non-binding proposals and ideas. That's the direction he wants to take. He has made this clear every time, even at the beginning of the Commission's work. The Foreign Minister says that a European Foreign Minister is not going to be present. That's expressing an expectation. However, I would like this cabinet to make a political commitment. The cabinet simply needs to be clear about its own desire that the minister should not be present. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the European Commission is not and should not become a European government;]] [[calls on the Government to express its opposition to the plans for the arrival of a European Foreign Minister at the Bratislava Summit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u226	In conclusion, I would like to make the following point with regard to the Ukraine Treaty. I think it is extremely unsatisfactory that we should see the whole thing postponed. We must wait until agreement is reached at European level, or not. However, this should not take too long. But if it cannot be said what 'too long' is, I know that it will be a prayer without end until the elections, until the end of the year or until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u227	Mr. Chairman. We have serious disagreements with the Minister for Foreign Affairs about Hungary. We do not want Brussels interference in the political action of the Hungarian Prime Minister. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Hungarian Prime Minister is acting with a large political mandate to serve primarily the interests of his own country;]] [[noting that it is suggested in circles of EU Heads of Government that Hungary should be temporarily or even permanently excluded from the EU;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort in Bratislava to prevent the Hungarian Government from being punished for standing up for its own people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u228	I doubt whether Mr Verhoeven would like to share another room with me in Norway after this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u229	Mr Verhoeven would like to comment on that. You do not need to go into detail, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u230	No, no details, but I'm willing to share a room with Mr. Beertema on a journey. Seriously! I think this is a serious point. I consider the contribution of the PVV to the debate on Europe to be important, because it is a different angle from that of many other parties, which always comes forward. I think it is important for Mr Beertema to go along with working visits with this Chamber, which is constantly calling the PVV a fake parliament. So I really want to hear from Mr Beertema: I'm going to go to work, I want to participate in that discussion, I want to see what's going on in other countries, I'm not going to isolate myself every time and I'm not going to walk away every time I'm asked: what do you think, what is the alternative and what should we do? 'Cause that's what he's doing right now. So I sincerely ask him, as a colleague of this Parliament, to join us on a job visit and to make sure that, from all these different perspectives, we can all look at this European future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u231	I have explained before in the corridors that we make our own work visits. I'm flying up and down to Warsaw in one day to save costs. That's how we're gonna be snooping around Frontex. That's how we work. But I'm going to consider your request; benevolent, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u232	Mr. Chairman. I, too, look forward to the working visit with Mr Beertema. I think that's gonna be a really nice work visit. I can feel him coming with me. I would like to make two further points in connection with the debate. The Prime Minister's picture of the way the different groups of Member States look at the European Union was a partial picture. A number of countries want to move more towards the Community and a number of other countries towards the intergovernmental angle. It would be nice to find out from the Prime Minister what his sense of this is. Which way does he think this is gonna go crazy? And in what way is this discussion going to take place? And is there indeed more support for his substantive commitment, or perhaps for another substantive commitment? It is also important for us to know what the other Member States are like and what the weights and proportions are. Then there is the Brexit and the internal market. The Prime Minister spoke about the four freedoms. If you participate in the internal market, then those four freedoms are part of it. I would add that it is also about making the internal market more social. It's not just getting in, and then it's done. You should be in on it, too. If we come to the revision of the Detaching Directive, including the revision of the freedom of workers, Britain would have to take part in it. And if we come to agreements on tax avoidance, i.e. change a part about the freedom of capital, Britain should also participate. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister if he sees this line as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u233	I call Mr Mulder. Mrs Maij, you can't do that! You can't talk to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u234	Mr. Chairman. A number of colleagues have asked whether we can gain more insight into the force field and get more pieces. That is fine, otherwise, as Mr Omtzigt said, we must follow all the Brussels and international media. Of course we do. It also helps with the evaluation of pieces and it saves us from jumping on our stick horse as MPs and ditching behind the horizon with proposals that never reach the finish line. The minister says he doesn't really want to discuss the "what if" for the negotiating position. This raises the question of whether it is useful to discuss with the Chamber, in private, behind closed doors, the approach to the Brexit negotiations and whether the Netherlands is well prepared. Mr Beertema, I think you should come with me to Norway. That completes the delegation. I don't think we think you're the most unkind PVV guy either. That's a personal debomination. It may still be educational to know what life is like outside the European Union. We have often discussed the need for the European Union to deliver. The Minister mentioned Bratislava as the starting point and we need to see in the near future whether the European Union is actually going to deliver for the people in the area of migration and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u235	Mr Mulder is making an interesting suggestion. I also understand that because of the negotiating position, the cabinet cannot simply put all the cards on the table about the consequences of the Brexit. Mr Mulder suggests that we could be briefed on this once in private. I think that suggestion is extremely nice. Can I take this as a concrete request from the VVD to the cabinet or the willingness to provide for it? Because then Mr Mulder will add butter to the fish and I would be very supportive of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u236	I have to think carefully about closed meetings, because they also have some very serious drawbacks. But indeed: it starts with us of course. Is that what we all want? If so, is the cabinet prepared to do so? Is the cabinet prepared to do so if the Chamber so requests?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u237	It begins, of course, by expressing its own wish to be informed. Then we will see if the cabinet is prepared to do so. I do have that wish, and I thought I heard Mr Mulder say that he has that wish. Then it is also an implicit request to the cabinet to provide for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u238	I have that wish, but I want to talk to the committee about it, because a closed meeting also has disadvantages. You can't talk about it in public, for example. In a transparent democracy, it is useful to be able to do so. I would like to talk about this at our procedural meeting, but Mr Van Bommel already has a taste of my desire to do so. There are disadvantages, but I'd like to be convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u239	You will indeed have to raise this at the committee's procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u240	Mr. Chairman. The results of this debate are somewhat disappointing to me. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also opts for the European Union on this point. However, it seems that the seriousness of the breach of confidence is not sufficiently on the political agenda today. In the end, this is a risk, namely, that confidence will flow further away. The answers given by the cabinet are 'an EU that delivers', 'back to core objectives', 'better, not more'. And we do. It is a passionate desire of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to find a way back to restoring confidence, without ready-made solutions. The cabinet says: we are going in Europe for migration, security, terrorism and strengthening the internal market. That agenda's too thin. It should be wider. I have two motions that might support that. I'll read it to you soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the confidence of European citizens in the European Union and institutions has decreased and that the public does not feel sufficiently involved in European decision-making;]] [[Whereas increasing trust is important for the continuation of cooperation in the EU;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, at EU level, concrete possibilities for strengthening the link between democratic European institutions and the population,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that unemployment within the EU and the euro area is a major problem affecting many European citizens and having significant negative social consequences;]] [[Whereas the functioning of the EU's internal market and the euro area's budgetary rules are not always conducive to job creation;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a greater role for employment in the establishment of the internal market and budgetary rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1148]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Maij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u241	I understand that the final motions have yet to be copied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u242	Mr. Chairman. The answer to Mr Omtzigt's first question is yes. We will put it right on paper and take it with us on occasion in another letter to the Chamber. I say to Mr Verhoeven: the European Parliament is of course not an end in itself. That they don't have enough work, I agree with him. However, insofar as no causal link should be suggested, the factual finding is reassuring. I come to the questions of Mrs Maij of the Labour Party. I have the impression that the position of the Netherlands, as expressed in the letter sent to the Chamber, could well be the position where we, as Europe, could land in the discussion of the coming months. That's my political assessment. I hope I'm right. I didn't quite understand the second question. The President forbade you to give me that second question in writing. I would therefore like to ask for a moment in the event of interruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u243	Well, not prohibited. It really has to be through the messenger. If the meeting is open, then there is a clear separation between Chamber and Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u244	Sure, I get that. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u245	I understand that, Mr. Chairman, and I am quite right to do so. Moreover, I do not think that the Prime Minister would have been very wise about my notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u246	The handwriting was readable!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u247	The handwriting was readable, but maybe the order would be the point. I said that the Prime Minister said: if Britain participates in the internal market, it also participates in the four freedoms. However, these four freedoms are in motion. With regard to the freedom of workers, we would very much like a more social internal market and therefore, for example, a revision of the Detachment Directive. On the issue of freedom of capital, we would like to see no capital flight through tax avoidance. So if Britain wants to participate as part of the internal market, it must also participate when the internal market is moving and some of those new lines are being set. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u248	These changes could also accommodate the UK. So I very much agree. If they ultimately trigger Article 50 of the Treaty, they will do so against the background of what is happening. And even in that period of triggering, in those two years, they can still keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u249	But then, of course, there's movement. If, after that period, we are going to change the rules against tax avoidance, the UK must, of course, also take part in them. These four freedoms also include freedom of capital, and if we want to restrict them, the UK must take part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u250	That's right. That is precisely the tragedy of a country such as Norway, which must fully adopt European legislation without being able to exercise its own influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u251	I have a slightly procedural question. In the previous debate with the Prime Minister, he promised a letter on ISIS and genocide. I'm still waiting on that. Now he agrees to tell us which part of the Ukraine Treaty is EU-only. I would like the Prime Minister to promise that we will have the letter stating which part of the EU-only is within three to four weeks. Then we will have it before we discuss the EU-Ukraine Treaty at the next summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u252	I am fine with saying that, but I am looking at the officials to see if I can make this official. They're nodding. Then I'll say yes. Absolutely. And if you thought I was just going on the officials' compass, yes, on this point. I come to the VVD's question about a closed consultation on Brexit. Of course, the Chamber must ask for that. We are prepared to do so in principle, but it is complicated that we should consider when we do so. Then you must have a sense of where the debate in Britain is going. As far as I am concerned, Article 50 does not have to be the trigger, but we should actually be a step further. I am therefore prepared to hold such a closed consultation, but my tendency would be to plan that consultation well with each other, so that we also have something to discuss in substance. The motion-Ontzigt c.s. in piece No. We consider 1144 to be policy support. What is in the first request, we are already doing; see the letter on Bratislava and the letter from Tusk, which is simply public. Secondly, the government is invited to seek to ensure that information on these summits is guaranteed at EU level. This is an informal summit with 27 countries, so it's going to be a problem of how to guarantee that exactly. Anyway, all in all, the motion supports policy. The motion for a resolution refers to part No. 1145 I advise, because that letter is already there. That's the Bratislava letter. It's just public and there's policy in it. That non-paper's a paper without a "non," so it's already there. In the Grashoff motion in part No. 1148 calls on the government to explore concrete possibilities at EU level to strengthen the link between democratic European institutions and the population. Referring to the discussion that Mr Grashoff and I had, I advise against the motion. We really need to get out of the phase of research and into the phase of determining positions. In the Grashoff/Maij motion in part No. 1149 notes that unemployment within the EU is a major problem and that the functioning of the internal market and budgetary rules are not always conducive to job creation. This motion calls on the government to propose a greater role for employment in the establishment of the internal market and budgetary rules. As the motion is before us, I can only advise against it, because this calls for an adjustment of the budgetary rules. If the motion called for employment to be an important objective of the internal market and budgetary rules, I would say yes, of course. The aim of the budgetary rules is to strengthen the economy and help the country move forward. However, I read in this motion that there must be changes in the functioning of the internal market and that we must adapt the budgetary rules in the light of this. I don't think that's gonna go too far. With that interpretation, I must therefore discourage the motion, otherwise I will also have an argument with Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the Minister of Finance. But on the spirit of the motion, that everything we do in the area of the internal market for fiscal consolidation and reforms is aimed at strengthening the economy, leading to a higher employment rate, we fully agree. However, the motion is a little too narrow. I find that uncomfortable, and so I have to dissuade her. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is also taking a few more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u253	Mr. Chairman. If I see correctly, there are two motions on which I have to give a ruling on behalf of the government. Mr Van Bommel's motion to item No. 1146 I would advise against. That proposal is not part of the discussion and is not dealt with in substance. Moreover, we are not in favour of a European government at all. In that context, there is no question whatsoever of a foreign minister. So I'd like to dissuade this motion. In the Bertema motion in part No. 1147 the government is invited to do everything in Bratislava to prevent the Hungarian government from being punished for standing up for its own people. I have said before that this is not at all the case. What the Hungarian Government is doing is quite different. He has the opportunity to go to court. He is a member of the European Union and should follow the rules. Then there is deliberate opposition, to destroy European solutions. That is not the writing out of a referendum that comes from the people. That is just Mr Orbán saying: I want to have it this way, and that is how I can undermine the rules, and for that I am going to issue a referendum. As I said, this is how you destroy the European Union. In that sense, I do disagree fundamentally with Mr Beertema. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-10.u254	This brings us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister, their officials, the MPs and the people who have followed this debate through the media. The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow.
