ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u1	This VAO we run with the same minister. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. Speaking time is still two minutes, including tabling motions, which are preferably short and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u2	Mr. Chairman. In this room, in this house, foreign funding of political parties and campaigns has been regularly discussed. This has also been raised earlier by other parties. In August, together with Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA, I asked questions about the tonnes of foreign sponsoring from a number of organisations in the context of the referendum campaign. We find that undesirable. Mr Öztürk tabled a motion during the budget debate which was quite decisive: really stop everything. We are asking for the next motion to limit the matter, in accordance with the directives of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in 2003 the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe made recommendations on the establishment of rules for foreign funding of political parties and political campaigns;]] [[whereas foreign funding of political parties in other countries, such as Germany and the United Kingdom, is already subject to restrictions;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to limit foreign funding of political parties and political campaigns, including referenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Öztürk, Mr Van Raak, Mr Veldman, Mr Bishop and Mr Fokke.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34270-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u3	Mr. Chairman. If I asked Prime Minister Rutte how to spell "no," he'd probably say, "Y-A." I'm asking how this minister would do that. It is scandalous how the government, and indeed a majority of this Chamber, dealt with the voice of the people. Not only do I see that during the referendum many municipalities have set up fewer voting booths, but also that a number of municipalities now say: gosh, last time we were able to do less, so we will do so in the forthcoming national elections. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the last referendum some 1,000 polling stations were set up less than in regular elections;]] [[noting that the Election Council also states that it is undesirable for voters in one municipality to make substantial efforts to vote in person than in another;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the number of polling stations is not reduced compared to the last Lower House elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34270-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Amhaouch c.s. motion in piece No. 22 I would consider as support for the policy, if it were not for me to disagree with two words. The motion calls for further investigation and proposals on the mechanism of financing political parties. This is seen in the Finance Act political parties and we are about to evaluate them. Then you can see as support for the policy that we are looking again at whether what we have now, namely full transparency about gifts from abroad of more than €4,500, offers sufficient guarantees against undesirable financing from abroad or that we would like to take further steps. Moreover, this would entail a change in the law. Anyway, the operative part doesn't say that that should happen, so strictly speaking, I could still live with that. As is well known, the current law states that funding from abroad must be transparent. Therefore, I am not indiscreet, I am not giving information, when I say that one political party over the past year has received €100,000 from abroad. It's been published. That was for the PVV. That's one party and one amount. The question is whether you would like to impose a ban on this. However, that can be discussed in the review of the Financing Act political parties that are going to take place anyway. I could therefore leave the judgement to the Chamber. However, the operative part says "including referenda." That is a lot more complicated, because the freedom of association, the freedom of assembly and the freedom of citizens to express themselves bring with them the fact that, of course, they can know for themselves whether they are publishing a newspaper. When they receive funding from their cousin from Belgium, there is no legal basis for imposing restrictions on them. For political parties we have the Funding Act political parties, but for citizens, foundations or citizens' organisations we have no basis to impose a restriction when they get €100,000 from Belgium and print a newspaper of it to contribute to a referendum campaign for Greenpeace or for any other good. Because the operative part leaves that possibility open, because we should consider doing so for political campaigns, including referenda, I do not recommend the motion as it now stands. If there's a tendency to take that out, but I don't sense it, then maybe I'd come to another advice. However, as the motion now stands, I do not advise her, because I can predict that the legal and constitutional framework will leave no room to prohibit it. With some regret, I therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u5	Just for the Acts. The Minister's assumption that no amendment would be made to the motion was based on the applicant's explicit no-shaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u6	In the Van Raak motion on part No. 23 refers to the debate on the number of voting booths. We have already had a number of debates on this. I still insist that setting up the electoral process is ultimately a municipal responsibility. Municipalities also have to pay them from the lump sum of the Municipal Fund. That is why it is not up to the Chamber to make final statements on the number of polling stations. I also believe that we agree that it would be undesirable to bring down the number of polling stations dramatically, but the lead in this is really with the municipalities. Since the operative part is absolute, I must advise against this motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u7	But what does the Minister do with the remarks of the Election Council? It has carried out an evaluation of the Ukraine referendum and it has said that it is undesirable for some municipalities to make substantial cuts in voting booths, because there will be major differences between municipalities. The same applies, of course, to national elections. What if it turns out that municipalities say: last time we could have less; we are left with money and we are going to spend it on all kinds of other things? Why doesn't the Minister feel a responsibility for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u8	The responsibility to ensure that there is an accessible voting process including a decent number of voting rooms has been invested in municipalities by the legislator. It has never been the case that the House of Representatives hangs final numbers on that. May I point out that this cabinet has been in office for four and a half years? That's an exception. If this cabinet had been in office for two years, as on average in recent years, twice as many parliamentary elections would have been held. The cost of this will be fully met by the municipalities and will not be reimbursed separately. It is sometimes a pity and sometimes it is disappointing when it comes to compensating for the number of polling stations. We have now reduced the municipalities to 40 million, because this cabinet has been sitting and no parliamentary elections have been held. I am counting on them to set up a decent number of polling stations when elections are held. That is also their legal task. But I advise the House of Representatives to say that no municipality should ever reduce that number to any extent, because there could be good reasons for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u9	Mr Van Raak, at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u10	The Minister says that the establishment of elections and the number of polling stations are the responsibility of municipalities. But let's say that a municipality really doesn't do its best and halves the number of voting booths or brings back even more. Then, in the current reasoning, the Minister says that this is the right of the municipalities and that they have to know it for themselves. When is there a responsibility of the Minister or of the House of Representatives? Surely it can't be that the congregations say that they do it nicely with one voting booth or perhaps no voting booths?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u11	It's not what the minister says, it's what the law says. The law lays down the responsibility for setting up the voting rooms and the number of voting rooms in the municipal administration. In general consultations, Mr Van Raak referred to the municipality of Doetinchem, where it was reported that the intention was to reduce the number of voting rooms. I then informed whether there are any members of the SP on the Doetinchem City Council. That's what turned out to be the case. I would especially call Doetinchem's council members by phone. It seems to me that the College of B and W will then have to answer for the apparent intention of doing so, because I do not know if that is the case in order to reduce the number of voting rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-41.u12	I thank the Minister for coming. We will be voting on the motions tonight.
