ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u1	I welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment; he was already here. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Ulenbelt of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Employers can insure themselves for the costs of partial incapacity for work. By default, they do so at UWV, the Executive Institute for Employees' Insurance, but they can also do so with private insurance companies. It's called a hybrid system. It's also in the title of the law. 'Hybride', President............................................................................................................................................................... Well, that's special.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u3	It's not about the chairman. The point is that this President thinks that the people in the public gallery and the people at home should be able to follow us as well. We are the representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u4	I fully agree with the President, which is why I wanted him to be able to say this. It worked. It's called a hybrid system. The aim was to enable insurers to stimulate the employer to make the best use of prevention and reintegration. The UWV and private insurers should keep each other sharp in the competition. It is now ten years after the introduction and the system is not working. Employers do not choose who helps them best in prevention and reintegration. No, they choose the price in the short term. It's not working. This is not the case in the legislative proposal, because it says: the effectiveness of the activation by the public or private insurer does not allow employers to participate in their choice. That's Haags for: it doesn't work. That is also understandable, because the UWV works with a very different system than the insurers. That is why it is also called hybrid: a close mixture of different things. It'll work in a car. Although, it doesn't work there either, because then you have two engines and then either one or the other does it. So that's always a bit of a waste for half the time, you might say. In the last ten years, therefore, all kinds of tricks had to be applied in order to achieve a bit of equality in this competition between UWV and insurers. For example, the Dutch language was enriched with the word "interest hobble storage." Despite that beautiful word, it doesn't work yet. To the extent of disaster, the insurers, who have entered this market, have suffered a loss of 1.6 billion. That's not funny. What does this law do now? This law puts private insurers back on an advantage. It is becoming increasingly apparent that the objective is not a decent insurance of the cost of incapacity for work, but the maintenance of that hybrid system. Politics is understandable. The VVD wants private. The PvdA wanted an audience. I don't know what she wants right now, but she always wanted an audience. So it stays hybrid and we have something that doesn't work properly. This was at the heart of the matter over the past ten years: first the insurers with too low premiums lured employers away from public insurance, then they lost, then they increased the premiums, then the employers went back to the public and now the government comes up with a law to help the insurers again. The expensive lesson of the last ten years is that private is more expensive than public in this kind of insurance. Therefore, it is also wise to organise the disability insurance for the public. Then we don't all have to use complicated tricks. Then it's clear. So in ten years' time that expected market forces did not come true. My question, well, actually it's a sigh, is how long it's gonna be before the government realizes that continuing on this road is not beneficial and that it should be chosen for the direction of public insurance. In the answer to questions, the government writes that it considers it too early to let go of the hybrid market. My only question in this debate is when does she think it is time to let go of that hybrid market and go public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr Ulenbelt concluded that the UWV was cheaper than private insurers. What's he basing that statement on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u6	In the manner of choice of employers who initially went for the lowest price among private insurers, but they were then below cost. When that price went up, the employers went to the UWV, because then it was UWV cheaper. Grosso mode is public cheaper. Moreover, we can have a very ideological debate about it, but public insurers do not have to make profits and private insurers do, preferably many. These are costs that employers have to pay, and that is why the public is cheaper than private.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u7	I have nothing against ideological debates in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u8	With the same arguments you can conclude that private insurers, because they have an incentive to do better, ensure better reintegration. Apart from that, Mr Ulenbelt says that because public contributions are lower, they are cheaper and therefore cost less. No, once someone is disabled, an employer pays back his damage twice or more at the UWV. So it is not so cheap for everyone and we are standing here to improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u9	The functioning of this market, which is not a market at all, was fully evaluated in 2011. When it turned out that the UWV and insurers' commitment to reintegration and that sort of thing didn't differ at all. In 2005, we were told that market forces would do the trick. In fact, we have been told that in more areas and a lot of people regret that in the meantime. We should regret that, too. I know the VVD is for the insurers, people also know the SP is for the public business, so it's not weird that I'm here arguing for the public business and Mrs. Schut of the VVD for the private business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u10	You are being addressed, Mrs Schut, you may say something in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u11	I'll stick to my own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u12	It is now up to the Council to decide on its own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is pleased that today we are discussing improvement proposals for the hybrid market of the Work Reconciliation Scheme, the WGA. This is the proposal that I asked for at the first consultation in this cabinet period three years ago: a level playing field. Made up of low entry premiums, many employers have switched from private insurance to UWV in recent years. Mr Ulenbelt also spoke about it. However, once they had one disabled worker, the premium sometimes doubled and they were unable to move; they were locked-in. A private insurer did not want to insure the damage burden of the workers who are now unable to work. After all, you cannot guarantee a burning house. If the employer wanted private insurance, the future payment costs had to be paid in cash from the insurer. This quickly cost more than a tonne in one tonne per person unable to work, on top of the annual premium. Most employers couldn't handle that at all. Luckily, with this bill, we're getting rid of this locked-in syndrome. This improvement has therefore long been advocated by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u14	What are we supposed to mean by "locked-in"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u15	"Enclosed," so you can't go anymore. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The public pay-as-you-go system is gaining a little more weight from the private system, which is financed by capital-as-you-go contributions. An employer wishing to switch to a private insurer may leave his burden of damage to disabled workers at the public facility. The idea behind the hybrid system is that private insurers and the public UWV compete with each other for an employer's insurance, so that ultimately employers' costs are reduced and people are helped to work faster. Unfortunately, I agree with Mr Ulenbelt that the system has not fulfilled these expectations, because it has not worked so far. Private insurers have suffered 1.6 billion losses in the last ten years. At first, it was unclear which risks were involved in insurers. In order to buy market share, they offered too low premiums to cover the future loss burden. They were also able to influence the damage burden much less than they had previously expected. There was a much larger inflow than expected in the WGA, with virtually no outflow. Insurers were faced with aftercharges from the UWV, because it paid the benefits. Re-integration efforts were not optimal and did not lead to lower benefits, as the UWV did not re-assess the disabled. With that beautiful so-called "interest hobble storage" on the premium, the UWV tried to simulate the private market. The idea was that private and public premiums would gradually grow together. Actually, they drifted apart. That is why the UWV has earned EUR 1.5 billion. This is at last a structural improvement in the system. It promotes the level playing field between private and public insurance in the WGA. The VVD is a warm supporter of this. With this legislative change and the changed UWV's policy to re-evaluate, the outflow will also start. Then it is up to insurers to use prevention and reintegration policies to show what they really are worth, so that people get to work faster after a time of disability. When an employer who has taken out a private insurance policy, we call it an own risk carrier that goes bankrupt, the responsibility and execution of the reintegration transfer to the UWV. The minister said in the written round that this makes sense, because an insurance at UWV is the default option, the default option on which you fall back. That reasoning does not apply as far as the VVD is concerned. That would only be the case if the UWV took over the burden, but the insurer continued to pay for the current benefit. If we have learned one thing from the system that has so far failed, it is that you should also give the party that pays the chance to control the damage burden. Then you should have the insurer, as the interested party, carry out the reintegration as well. The VVD simply wants to see this done and has argued for it on several occasions, most recently in the course of my initiative paper Activation from Disability of Work. We are in favour if the Income Supply would be fully and permanently disabled, the IVA, for new cases under the hybrid system. The initial WIA assessment now determines whether someone is permanently or unsustainablely disabled, including whether someone is covered by the hybrid or public system. An employer who chooses not to insure himself through the UWV is therefore bound to the UWV for his fully and permanently disabled workers. As a result, some employees' benefits are paid by collective contributions within one company, while other employees' benefits are financed by individual contributions. That makes the system really extra complex. And it's already so complex! It may result in employers and the UWV trying to spread the costs against each other. At the same time, the IVA is very private, because the difference in benefit is 5% of the minimum wage if someone stays in it for a long time. That's what we're seeing in the WGA now. It therefore seems a good idea for the VVD to bring the IVA under the hybrid system. She regrets that the IVA is missing from this bill. What's the reason for that? What does the Minister expect the interaction of this bill with risking the disability burden of flex workers? This is also a measure that will apply from 2017. What exactly is the damage burden that the UWV has at the moment and what is the damage burden for the safety nets? Now imagine in the state worst case scenario that all insured persons would leave the public system in one go at the 2018 UWV. Is the burden of damage greater than the 1.5 billion reserves currently available? If so, what happens in that case? How's that blow caught by the UWV? We receive letters from employers who switched to the UWV before 1 July 2015 and think that they are now stuck at the UWV until 2018. Of course, the process under way has changed in this transitional arrangement. The key question is whether for all UWV insurers the minimum period of three years is that someone should remain insured with the UWV. Can the Minister clarify the impact of the transitional arrangements on employers already insured at UWV before July 2015 and on employers who switched to UWV after July 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. We're turning sausage case scenario into "badest situation." Okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mrs Schut spoke of a failing system so far. I totally agree with her. Our spokesperson in the treatment of the law at that time, Jan de Wit, predicted that too. He said, "This is gonna be a hybrid monster." At the time, the VVD representative spoke the same words as Mrs Schut now, namely "it's all gonna be okay." I have one more question. If it doesn't work out in five years' time, is she convinced that she should go on the SP course to do the public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr Ulenbelt's premise is that the public is doing well, but I do not think so at all. I find that the UWV does not re-integrate properly in the case of incapacity for work. I don't think there's enough re-evaluation. I believe that there is not enough responsibility. The VVD has always been in favour of eventually going to a private system. That's the simplicity we want in the end. But as long as we have the current system, we just have to make the best of it. I think this is a very good step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u19	It was evaluated in 2011. Then it turned out that the UWV and the insurers are doing equally well or equally badly. It's in the nature of matter. Then why does the VVD want to bring the money for premiums to the insurers, when it does not have to do so with the public provision? It's really gonna make it cheaper. We're talking about a system that the VVD advocated ten years ago, but what she now calls a failing system. When does she see that you shouldn't continue with that failing system with a few minor improvements? You're gonna have to be a socialist someday!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u20	So I don't think the UWV is working properly either. So I do not agree with Mr Ulenbelt that they are doing the same. This may have been the conclusion in 2011, but times have changed. There's been a lot more damage. Insurance companies are now doing much more about reintegration, but they simply get nothing in return. With this change of law, they can earn a living. I think that should be given a very good chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u21	You had already come to the end of your speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr. Chairman. For some time the Labour Party has raised the issue of leaving tail loads, both in AO's and by asking a number of sets of written questions. Calculating employers have completely ignored the "polluter pays" principle and used the possibility of hopping between public and private insurances leaving the tail burden behind, i.e. leaving the damage behind. The purpose of the hybrid system was to be of added value with regard to prevention and reintegration. Unfortunately, nothing of this has so far proved to be true. The Group of the Party of Labour considers this repair to be an improvement and therefore expects more attention to be paid to sick workers and their recovery and that the focus will no longer be on the financial benefits to be achieved. We still have a few questions. How will the Minister ensure that the added value of the hybrid system in terms of integration, reintegration and prevention is now realised? No contribution is made to this by keeping the tail costs in public insurance, because employers are no longer responsible for the tail costs when switching to private insurance. Why does the Minister choose to create inequality in public insurance contributions? Employers who switch from private to public after 1 July 2015 pay a premium to finance the public tail costs. Employers who were already covered by public insurance before that date do not pay that premium. Similarly, new employers do not pay the premium. This is based on membership of public insurance, while the costs arise from leaving public insurance. What's the reasoning behind this? We believe it is important that the objective is achieved and that the desired effects are actually achieved. We do hear from the field that practical problems still arise in the implementation of the law. I would therefore like to receive the Minister's undertaking that he will monitor this very closely, evaluate it in good time and inform us of it in the interim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the Chamber's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr President, I am walking by on the introduction, because I do not think it is a good time for a very large general speech, unless you insist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u25	We're gonna see if we can do it your way to the satisfaction of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u26	We're gonna test it together and then we're gonna look into the second term. The SP indicates that the hybrid system has actually shown little added value. I agree with the SP. There are reasons for this, partly because of poor risk assessments by private insurers and partly because of the inequality that exists in the market. In recent years, the framework conditions for insurers to make a better risk assessment have improved. With this bill, we are improving equality in the market. In the meantime, contacts with insurers show that they are working hard to develop new insurance products, with much more emphasis on prevention and reintegration. And that's what we want! There is a lot of technique and a lot of difficult words and abbreviations involved, but what we want is that people are committed to getting people back to work and, above all, to preventing people from getting sick. For this reason, I do not take the conclusion that it has finally failed. It is clear that it has not gone well enough so far, but that is why we are making these adjustments. When did it finally fail? Mr Ulenbelt asked how much time we take to determine that. Such a new law needs to be properly evaluated and in order to be able to evaluate properly, you need to be able to see what the effects have been. We have deadlines for this, but if, after these deadlines, the evaluation shows that it does not work, then we have to choose left or right. We will then have to let go of the whole system of a hybrid market and choose either for the public or for private. I'm not ready for that right now. The next moment for this choice seems to me to be the review of the law. Mr Ulenbelt asked whether it was true that the parties were keeping each other sharp. That's the goal. They can do that by being better at prevention and reintegration. This is a way to keep the price low and to contribute to the goals we have set for the system: less disease, faster re-integrating the prevention of disease. Mrs Schut-Welk deserves to be congratulated on the fact that she has consistently advocated that the subject should be placed on the agenda and kept on the agenda. In addition, it has already advocated the inclusion of the IVA, the Income Facility Fully and sustainably disabled persons, in the same hybrid system. She expressed her disappointment that this bill did not do so. I understand Mrs Schut's desire to make it part of this system, because that way you can create one disability insurance and avoid the risk of transfer. I am therefore willing to explore with employers, insurers, UWV and the Tax Administration the possibilities of adding the IVA to the hybrid system. I'll just say it can't be done in one go. If you look at it, Mrs Tanamal asked how complex it is to make this change and that the field seems to have understandable concerns about it, then I hope Mrs Schut understands that we are now taking this necessary step to improve the current system. In the meantime, of course, we can continue to think about what could be a future step. That could indeed be the addition of the IVA suggested by Mrs Schut. Ms Schut expressed her surprise at the argument that it would be logical to continue to impose the costs on the insurer in the event of bankruptcy, as UWV would then take over the risks. At present, the employer's obligation to reintegrate is transferred to UWV when the employership of the own risk carrier ends, as in the case of bankruptcy. UWV recovers the costs of the WGA benefit and the reintegration on the insurer. I understand and share Mrs Schut's wish to place the obligation of reintegration in the event of the employer's bankruptcy with the private insurer who also bears the WGA burden. That makes sense. I am talking about whether this can be done, but this too is technically extremely complex, because you will actually have to hand over an terminated employership fictitiously in order to ensure that you can continue to play that role. We need to think very carefully about exactly how we should do that and speak very carefully with all the parties involved, but I understand the plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u27	One of the arguments previously exchanged is that the insurer would not be an interested party in this regard. Doesn't the Minister agree with the VVD that if you pay the benefit and the reintegration, you are obviously interested?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u28	That's a distracted interest. That's obvious. I shall now come to a number of other questions from Mrs Schut, but I would like to start with Mrs Tanamal's question. She asked on behalf of the Labour Party how we are going to look at the added value of the improved hybrid system. It is important to see what is actually happening on the market. We've been looking at that with each other over the past few years. That's what this is about. In particular, you want to see the goals of the law become reality. This means that the evaluation should be part of the impact on outflow, prevention and reintegration. We want to see those effects. That's what the whole system was designed to do. If it is well scored in the evaluation, you can say: it has had effect, there is now an improved hybrid market. Of course, we're going to keep track of what happens to the figures and so on, but in the meantime it's probably hard to draw any real conclusions from that unless it goes wrong. The most important point is the evaluation. Mrs Tanamal also pointed out that UWV's financing of business costs reduced the incentive for employers to commit themselves to reintegration. That's true. Employers experience a lower incentive, but employers who switch from the private market to UWV do not have that incentive either and do not have to pay the business costs themselves on departure from the private market. I'm correcting that inequality right now. The aim is that employers are not stuck with UWV. This is also positive from the employee's perspective. The employee is not confronted with a new operator of reintegration when changing from public to private, but can work with the familiar face on his reintegration. This means that incarceration Mrs Schut called it a lock-in at UWV disappears and that the employee in the same reintegration pathways can continue to work on his reintegration. Mrs Tanamal pointed out that practical objections were also raised from the field. I just said something about that. How should the transition take place? How to do this in terms of technique, how to implement it? Here and there we see problems. It's a hell of a thing, isn't it? What is needed is certainly not small. We have very regular contact with the field, with the union, with everyone involved. I do not expect any insurmountable problems now and I dare to say so, because it is supported by what we hear back from the field. Even after implementation, agreements have been made on keeping track of what we see, the figures and the effects, but a real evaluation will take a little more time, otherwise you don't know what you're measuring. Then I'll get to the flexers. We have already arranged under the Bezava Act at the request of the Chamber that employers who were already privately insured for the WGA-fixed, without any business expense for the WGA-flex could leave UWV. That was called the Asscher pardon. I did not agree with that at all, but the listeners who follow this dossier recognize that. This therefore does not lead to new financial effects. In fact, that was covered at the time at the request of the Chamber. Then I come to a real like-dan question. What if at the same time everyone switched from audience to private? First of all, we don't expect that. Secondly, if it were to happen, it shows that the hybrid market is still not working and we will have to intervene again. Thirdly, this would require a larger amount than the EUR 1.5 billion raised, which would mean that there would be a deficit. You will still have to fulfil your obligation and then a problem arises for the government. But again, this is a what-if question. Normally it's safe not to go into that. Since Mrs Schut asked so intrusively, I thought it best to just answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u29	Precisely when asked intrusively, what-if questions are not usually addressed. Mrs. Schut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u30	Yeah, but I'm the exception to that rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you for this explanation. I had not yet seen the combination of WGA-fast, WGA-flex and the so-called Asscher-pardon mentioned in this way, so thank you for this explanation. Just when you're talking about the worst scenario and consequences for the UWV as an insurer and therefore for the government, you want to know the extent of the problem. The minister says it's bigger than the 1.5 billion reserve, but it doesn't indicate that. If this were to happen, would the premiums go up? How are you gonna cover that? You won't have any more insured people to pass it on to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u32	Now we have to be careful. If you're gonna walk into an alley like this, you gotta know where you're gonna come from. Ms Schut said that the scale of the problem was greater than 1.5 billion, but it was a fictional problem: suppose that as of 1 January 2018 everyone would switch from public to private, what would that mean? Firstly, this means that the system does not work and that you must intervene. Secondly, it means a great deal of money. I don't know exactly how big that batter is right now. However, before voting on this law, I offer to forward to the Chamber in writing information on the extent of the damage charges surrounding WGA flex so far. That's safe for Mrs. Schut and for me. We will then be able to base ourselves on figures that have been calculated for a short time. We must be careful not to create a fictitious problem now, because I believe that Mrs Schut is doing the same thing that we have now designed these incentives in such a way that they can be changed in a logical way, but that massive changes are not rewarded anymore. That was a risk in the old system. This was bad for insurers, but also for employees and for the purposes that we have with the law, namely effective reintegration and prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u33	Agreed. Thank you for this explanation. I believe in this system, as I have clearly said, but I also remain a conservative VVD. When it comes to a risk of more than 1.5 billion, which also has an effect on an EMU balance, I think it is very good that the scale of this is mapped out. I actually thought that had already happened, but I think it is very good that this is happening. In my view, this should be clearly measured by the size of all insured persons and by all the costs of damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u34	I have just promised to write down what we know about these figures before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u35	Those votes will be scheduled for next Tuesday; I will be a little ahead of what I would otherwise say at the end. So the Chamber gets this information before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u37	The Minister was somewhat tempted by Mrs Schut to deal with the risks of giga risks in the future. Mrs Schut then asked the Minister to draw conclusions. That's what I want. The VVD clearly wants the entire trade to be transferred to insurers related to government debt and the like. Why doesn't the Minister simply withdraw this bill in order to avoid the future risk that Mrs Schut presents here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u38	Because it's a sensible bill. You can say you know better and that it has to be completely public. That's what the SP says here, but this also has major drawbacks. Re-integration and prevention are not so brilliant either. You can also say that you already know that it is not going to work and that it has to be completely private, with a small government et cetera. By the way, I do not hear the VVD arguing that here. You can also try to make the 2006 idea, which did not succeed at the time, more accessible by ensuring that you cannot easily benefit by switching, and by focusing on effective prevention and reintegration. That is the purpose of this bill. That is why I do not withdraw it, but I hope that it will be adopted on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u39	At the same time, the Minister is not sure that all this is going to work out well. I would like to tempt him to say that if things don't go the way we want in five years' time, we're going to do it the way the Labour Party and the SP wanted us to do in 2005. It's not about it anymore, so he can say that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u40	In five years' time, that's a normal evaluation period. We'll know if it works. If it doesn't work, then the Chamber must choose: public or private. Then you can't do it hybridly anymore. Then we'll see what the Chamber decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u41	You have a second term, Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u42	The VVD asked for clarity for the public insured about how long they are stuck at the UWV. Public insured persons must be insured for at least three years before they can again opt for their own risk carriership. This means that if someone was a self-risk carrier until January 1, 2014 and went to the UWV at that time, they will not be able to switch again until January 1, 2017. That just counts. It'll work immediately. So there's no change and no difference. You just have to have spent three years at the UWV before you can be your own risk carrier again. That is also necessary, precisely in order to reduce risks. Mrs Tanamal asks for an explanation as to why inequality in contributions may arise. It is undesirable to just confront all employers already publicly insured with a higher premium. That is why I have chosen to apply the new contribution scheme only to employers who enter into UWV's public insurance. Employers themselves have a choice for public or private insurance. They can take that higher premium, which is going to apply through the legislative proposal, into their own consideration. Employers who are now publicly insured will no longer be able to make the free choice of whether or not they opt for that higher premium. That's what they chose. For the invaders, they know where they stand and how long they will be attached to them. They can make their own calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u43	I see that Mr Ulenbelt is abandoning his second term. I give the floor to Mrs Schut on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u44	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. We are very much in agreement with each other in terms of content. I also agree with the Minister's conclusion in the interrupting debate with Mr Ulenbelt that the system must now work and that it must be evaluated in five years' time. If it doesn't work then you have to make a clear choice. That also seems to be a very good idea for the VVD. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to consider how to bring the IVA under the hybrid system in the future. I have another motion to give him some direction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the insurance system in the disability sector is a complex mix of the Public Income Services Complete and Sustainable Disabled Persons (IVA) and the Hybrid Work Recommences Partial Workable Persons (WGA);]] [[Whereas simplification of this system improves the level playing field between public and private insurance;]] [[Considering that in January 2015 the Royal Actuarial Society recommended bringing the IVA under the hybrid system;]] [[Whereas an employer will then be given a clear choice of whether to opt for private or public insurance of incapacity for work;]] [[calls on the Government, in an implementation test, to examine the consequences of bringing the IVA under the hybrid system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schut-Welken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34336-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u45	I have a second motion on organizing that an insurer can still re-integrate people in the event of bankruptcy. We've just talked about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a self-employed risk carrier in the Work has resumed Partially fit for work (WGA) through capital-recovering contributions to ensure future reintegration pathways for its (former) employees;]] [[noting that if an employer goes bankrupt, the reintegration obligations are carried out by the UWV;]] [[noting that the insurer would still be able to pay the execution and the benefit but would not be able to carry out the reintegration pathways;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with insurers, UWV and Tax Administration, to ensure that, in the event of the bankruptcy of an own risk carrier, the implementation of the reintegration by insurers is continued,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schut-Welken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34336-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr. Chairman. The first motion is that in part No. 7 by Mrs Schut. I understand her desire to make the IVA (Income Supply Full and Sustainable Disabled Persons) part of the hybrid system very well. I am therefore also prepared to examine whether this could be done and to give a picture to the Chamber before the summer. In that sense, I should like to leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber. I have to say, however, that an execution test is only to be dealt with in full legislation and regulations. You can then make them eligible for an execution test. I want to visualize if this is possible. That's how I consider the motion. A real test of implementation in a formal sense can only come about if it has led to legislation again. That's one, two, three phases later. That in itself does not have to cause any problems, so I leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. The motion-Schut-Because of part No. 8 which requests that, in consultation with insurers, UWV and Tax Administration, the implementation of the reintegration by insurers be continued in the event of bankruptcy. Again, I am already in conversation with the UWV and the Covenant of Insurers. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. The deadline will also depend on the time and capacity that can be made available, both at UWV and in insurers, while the new legislation is now being prepared and implemented. If the House adopts this motion, I will make an attempt to come up with an answer soon that meets the wishes. So I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u47	I've got a little problem now. You give all kinds of interpretations to the motion and then give a qualification, but then those qualifications must be given to the applicant. I need to hear that, otherwise the Chamber may not be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u48	From the first motion, I understand the Minister in such a way that he's going to investigate this. In his written reply, he also said that he supports that idea in itself, but that it is now too soon and that, if that investigation eventually leads to a full proposal, he can then come to an execution test. If I understand it that way, I will keep the motion as it is, but then the Minister can express it as he wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u49	That was one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u50	The second was only about the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u51	The second was indeed about the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-9.u52	Fine. I do not want it to be said later that it was not clear in the debate. Well, that's it now. This brings us to the end of the Minister's term and thus to the end of this debate.
