ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u1	There are a lot of speakers. The minister's already here. I say to my fellow Members that we do not set any limits on the number of interruptions, but some self-limitation could still control the schedule of meetings a little bit. We always do interruptions in two stages. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. This is also a bit of looking back. It's the last round for the rulers. At least you can assume that. That is also a moment to reflect on what has been achieved. I would like to commend the Minister for the way in which she has dealt with this dossier in recent years: with a great heart, a small ego, with passion and with the experience she has already had. I could tell. It's also a person you can just find in some shabby cafe with smelly toilets in Bobo-Dioulasso, to name but a few. It's kind of the person Ploumen who took care of this file. I am also asking the fundamental question whether we are still on the right track. Is development cooperation as an institution, what it has been for a long time, still of this time? Does it have a future? Do the people still understand? Are people who are not entirely initiated in this matter still willing to spend taxpayers' money on this? And more about policy: has the aid and trade agenda worked well? I have always felt that they have been separate circuits and that the VVD leg and the PvdA leg of this minister made her Dr Jekyll and then again Mr Hyde. We work as a chamber with the minister on the relationship between goals and results. That is better, but you can also ask yourself whether people are really aware of where the money that is going to go through the tax in development cooperation leads. All in all, it makes a too fragmented impression on me. I also think it's not future-proof. At a time when we have global problems, whether they are about climate or about all kinds of other social goals that are included in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), or just all kinds of conflicts that have different foundations, I wonder if this is from this time forward. This brings me directly to the so-called ODA standard, the standard for Official Development Assistance. We agreed to spend 0.7% of gross national income on development cooperation. If we follow the path now ahead of unchanged policies, according to the International Affairs Advisory Council, the AIV, we will be 0.44% of gross national income by 2020 instead of 0.7%. Is the ODA standard definitely off the table? Are we going to continue to send input with this 0.7% or is that passé and are we just sending it to the results? That's very important. We will talk later about the partner countries. Nevertheless, I ask the Minister whether partner country policy is bankrupt. Look at Ethiopia and the problems with the Oromo and the Amhara; we have talked about it recently. The state of martial law has been declared and many people have been detained, injured or victimized. Look at Burundi. We have invested in a police force that is violent. People say: cops have only learned to focus better with that Dutch money. We put a lot of money into the beer industry. In Burundi, people spend 1% of their income on education, 1% on clothing and 17% on beer and cigarettes. Is it desirable for us to focus on this? Land rights, both in Burundi and Ethiopia and other countries where we work, have been a key element of the policy. We do not believe that this is strong enough. We will table an amendment to give that extra body. I ride through it a little fast because of the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u3	Before you continue, I see that Mr Bosma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Smaling was riding his bike so hard he didn't see me standing. It is a good thing that the SP is finally starting to question the development aid doctrines a little bit. Every year we dump 4.2 billion in that bottomless pit called development aid. Fortunately, Mr Smaling has finally mentioned a few drawbacks. There's a lot of them. They're also just in the books. The New York Times had an excellent article on Africa two weeks ago, where a lot goes wrong in all kinds of countries. All this hooray and hosanna stuff is finally starting to die out a little bit. When will Mr Smaling finally see the light? He's pleading for an extra 1 billion for that crazy development aid. When does the SP say: we stop this crazy and we just spend that money on care in the Netherlands or some other charity, safety or whatever? Why does the SP keep cycling with blinded eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u5	The SP stands for international equality, for human rights and for a good life for everyone who walks the globe for several decades. It's like a house. We want to stop the old model of development cooperation, but on the one hand we want something to come back to that which focuses on security and humanity for the world's population. On the other hand, we want a much more compact, much easier cooperation programme with Africa in which entrepreneurs from here and from there can work together, so that the people here can see that it makes sense. You can see, for example, the Dutch diaspora, which is not exactly at the top of Mr Bosma's list of priorities. One can see that these people play a useful role in strengthening the links with countries that Mr Bosma does not want these people to migrate in this direction and that they are getting sick and bringing communicable diseases here. It's very useful not to let go, but to decorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u6	A warning to the chairman: the professor is going to teach quickly. Look out! I'm warning you, but that's his right. The SP says she'd like to see something for it. That's just the misery, because we don't see anything in return. Every now and then a nice well is struck, some nice gender project is done or another 2 million condoms go that way. But what happens permanently, structurally? Look 30 years back. What did we try to change there 30 years ago and what is the situation now? There is no such effect. There is no evidence anywhere that this development aid will produce lasting results. In fact, there are all kinds of indications that development aid is causing corruption, blowing up balances of payments because suddenly money is pouring in and is very bad for those countries. That prevents those countries from taking responsibility for their own existence, so we see nothing of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u7	I think that Mr Bosma and I have both read quite a lot on this subject. I'm gonna sit in the middle of Bruno Collier's. I think we have had a debate on this before. He has done a lot of studies and says that aid has contributed about 1% growth to Africa over the past decades. Many countries have, of course, had negative growth, but it would have been even more negative without that aid. So this aid has not always and everywhere helped, but in some cases it has. Look at how many students have been trained with Dutch grants, thus having gained a better life and their families included in it. That's how it works in Africa. The social cohesion in family and clan atmosphere is very large. It has therefore made absolutely sense. I hope that Mr Bosma will move a little towards the middle in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u8	Proceed, Mr. Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u9	I come to trade agreements. We have a new American president. I don't know about TTIP. There have, of course, been all kinds of debates about it. My colleague, Jasper van Dijk, was mainly involved with the Minister. My question is how she stands at the moment. I saw that she opened an academic year somewhere, in which she talked about the elephant chart. It is a bit of a model for her story that the poor are getting poorer and the richer and richer of all these wild free trade agreements. So she's going for a globalisation 2.0 where you make it all inclusive, which I always find a bit difficult to understand. What does she want now? TTIP with that dispute protection mechanism is just a celebration for hedge funds and other locusts. That's just high time. What is her feeling about TTIP and TiSA, that service treaty? We'll see if CETA comes back here through a referendum. I would also like to mention the agreements for international corporate social responsibility. I tabled a motion with Mr Voordewind a while ago asking for an evaluation mid-year. We are now well served with the clothing industry and the banks, but for the rest we do not have such an insight. I refer to pension funds, insurance companies and sellers of shoes and electronics. There are a lot of sectors of which we do not yet have an idea of what is going on. It's a bit of the Minister's parade. At least that's how she goes out with it. As far as we're concerned, things aren't fast enough. There are some things about young people. Mr Van Laar has an action plan for young people first. That's what we're interested in. The Minister has set aside 50 million from the Local Employment in Africa for Development (LEAD) and from the Dutch Good Growth Fund, but when we read the answers to the actual questions, we are not sure that this money will reach those young people, those young people who are at the very beginning of entrepreneurship and who are also looking for partners. Mrs Mulder and I have tabled an amendment to deal with matchmaking, for example by helping a youngster from Africa and a youngster from here with an entrepreneurial spirit to develop a market exploration, with a business case. This could concern a wide range of sectors. Wouldn't that be a very nice kick-start for what the Minister now wants with the 50 million? There has been a Save Wildlife conference in The Hague and a wildlife conference is scheduled in Saigon. That's where only an official delegation goes. We've always made a point of this. There has been an amendment - Smaling/Empty and Economic Affairs is also busy with it. What is the stake and can't get a few teeth, of course preferably tusks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u10	I have a question about the amendment Mr Smaling mentioned. For example, how do these activities relate to what the Bit Network does or what SPARK does? It is precisely what he describes, namely help with writing a business plan, choosing the best and Dutch expertise to local African entrepreneurs. I was wondering what the relationship was and that Mr Smaling was missing in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u11	That's a sensible question. I really wonder how, for example, SOS Children's Villages, which is also one of the performers, relate to what the amendment aims to do, where you act as a matchmaker at the level of people who have just graduated and want to start a business. Do they have any use for the way in which local employment is organised in Africa for Development? There's 50 million going in and if we can see through 1 million matchmaking if that model could work, it's additional to what's planned. In my opinion, it is also in line with Mr Van Laar's proposal on youth. I'm rounding up. The SP wants to look ahead and see a world of inequality, with intolerance, scarce resources and climate change, with all kinds of price fluctuations, for example, of food in cities, which also creates many difficult situations. That is why it really wants to change the pattern of development cooperation. There is an emergency side with three components, namely prevention, action when it is needed, reception and aftercare. It is also necessary to improve the quality of life in refugee camps. There is a North-South cooperation with three points, that is to say an economic side, as I have just mentioned with the amendment to give young people business, a social goal, by strengthening health systems and an ecological goal, the Climate Agenda. Is all this well aligned with Secretary of State Dijksma, so that our efforts reinforce each other and we use our expertise in this area as best we can in countries that want to cooperate with us? All this must be done under the sine qua non of corporate social responsibility (CSR). This includes combating tax avoidance, as well as land rights and human rights. I also refer to young people in the diaspora as a lubricant, as bridge builders between communities here and in Africa. It is about people who can speed up the development that we are looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u12	I am very pleased that the SP is an ally of the PvdD against free trade agreements such as TTIP, TiSA and CETA, but there is also another free trade agreement in the pipeline, and that is the agreement with Japan. We all know that Japan is quite active in whaling. We have regularly tabled motions to indicate that this should be a breaking point, i.e. no free trade agreement as long as Japan is guilty of whaling. The SP then voted against it. I would very much like to know why that is. Is the SP for a free trade agreement with Japan, when we know that it not only violates human rights, but that it also deals with whaling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u13	I am a little surprised that my colleague Jasper van Dijk is making the trade agreements. Of course, that answer is a bit weak. If Mrs Thieme agrees, I will come back to this in the second term. I can start to guess why it happened, but I really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u14	Fine. I'll find out later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u15	Then that's a deal. I give the floor to Mr Taverne of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a beautiful country. We have a healthy economy and we are prosperous. So prosperous that we are able to provide development aid. We'll talk about that tonight and tomorrow. Then it is often about countries in Africa, which raises the question: how often would they talk about the Netherlands in the parliaments of those countries in Africa? But that aside. Help can be an effective tool, provided it is targeted and cleverly deployed. Frits Bolkestein once said: the question is not why poor countries are poor, but why rich countries are rich. The Netherlands has never received development aid. Yet we have been able to develop until the sixteenth economy of the world. Experience has shown that a well developed state, political stability and a reliable legal system are important conditions for economic development. This is still lacking in many developing countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr Taverne said that the Netherlands had never received development aid and I thought spontaneously of the Marshall funds. Can Mr Taverne answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u18	Yes, he can. I have considered whether I would include the example in my text as an exception to the rule. I did not do that because I did not want to deny this question to Mrs Mulder of the CDA. Marshall aid was mainly economic aid, the starting point being that the American economy would benefit from it. That's what happened. Moreover, it was for a very defined period. It is not the case that we are still receiving Marshall help today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u19	The VVD therefore considered that a good, wise form of investment in development aid, from country A to country B, from the US to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u20	It has certainly had a good effect. Precisely because it was limited in time and purpose. Speaking of Marshall aid, we can also mention the anecdote that then Prime Minister Drees received in his home at the Beeklaan with a cup of tea and a jaw, which moved the Americans to transfer a sum, because that would be well spent on a country that is so economical and effective with its money. This cannot be said of all the countries in which Dutch development aid ends up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u21	I was working on Mr Taverne's definition. Development aid therefore means the transfer from one country to another, not for a certain period of time and not for a particular sector. I wonder how Mr Taverne looks in this context at the transfer that took place from several countries to the Netherlands during the period of colonization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u22	Or the way it's still happening. That's kind of interesting. We have always thought and talked about the overseas territories as wing-wests, but they have rarely been economical. A lot of research has been done on it. Many of our former colonies have never brought much economic benefit to the Netherlands, on balance. So I would not want to put that under development aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u23	Let us at least note that this was not given voluntarily at the time, that there was indeed a transfer and that in Dutch history there are best periods in which part of our development had to do with transfers and wealth from other countries. Sometimes that was effective and sometimes it was less effective, but the statement that the Netherlands, apart from a sector, apart from a defined period, has never had any revenue from abroad, is certainly noteworthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u24	Then Mrs Van Veldhoven did not listen very carefully to my answer to her first question, namely that the relationship between the former colonies and the Netherlands was not one of which the Netherlands was ultimately richer. Mrs Van Veldhoven's comparison then stops a little bit, limps, doesn't go on, doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u25	With Mrs. Mulder, I also remembered Marshall's help. I was a little late than she was, but that gave me the opportunity to check it out. For five years the Americans have invested in the Dutch economy. I take it that Mr Taverne has no problem with doing a project of five years or so, or a cabinet period, provided that it is done in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u26	I don't know. The comparison with development aid does not apply here, because we have been giving it for more than 40 years. If it were limited to five years, it could be discussed, but we have already done so eight times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u27	I think it's a few different countries too. I would like to hear an example of a country in which we have been investing consistently for 40 years. I think we're looking at which country comes first every time. However, I also understand Mr Taverne that a new euro to Greece and so on is excluded. In the upcoming campaign, the VVD is really going to keep its promise that no more euro will go to Greece. The Netherlands is the Netherlands and our tax revenues remain in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u28	What am I supposed to say? Let me speak for myself: Mr Dijkgraaf does not have to doubt me in that regard. If the President will allow me, I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u29	Go ahead, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u30	Experience has shown that in a well developed state, political stability and a reliable legal system are important conditions for economic development. That is precisely what is lacking in many developing countries. That's not crazy at all if you just send money to a country with no strings attached. There are parties who are in favour of just making more of it. As far as the VVD is concerned, a combination of targeted aid and trade works better than unilateral financial and material support. Similarly, the provision of aid only works if concrete objectives are set which can be monitored. That too is not the case at all. We have been giving development aid for over 40 years now. Today we are talking about a budget of more than EUR 4 billion. The Minister still insists in her budget that "thanks to the Netherlands, 4,500 poor women (co-owner) of a piece of land in Bangladesh's polders have become "in 2015'. Last Monday, we discussed with the Minister how she is going to ensure that her budget now contains pre-defined, measurable targets, which can be set afterwards or how they have been achieved. I say this without irony or cynicism, but rather with amazement and perhaps with slight disbelief, because after more than four decades of development aid, it seems that we still need to help 4,500 farmers in Bangladesh and at the same time not be able to derive properly from the budget what we are spending development aid on, on what basis and whether it helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u31	As long as we dump all kinds of cheap agricultural products from Europe in countries like Bangladesh, you will indeed continue to mop with the tap open and ensure that the local agricultural economy, even in Bangladesh, is constantly disrupted. Is it not also a well understood self-interest for the VVD to say: let us see how we can avoid being so disruptive with our aggressive export strategy in those countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u32	I think Mrs Thieme and I have more in common here than the fact that we both do not eat meat. It also has a view on free trade, which is perhaps attractive in itself, because it is precisely barriers in free trade between Europe and, above all, Africa that ensure that relations are very uneven. I do not think that this one-sidedness leads to the inability to develop countries that still require help. However, if Mrs Thieme is in favour of more free trade, she will find the VVD Group on her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u33	That's too bad, because that's not my plea. Not only the farmers in developing countries but also our own farmers are the victims of free trade. So I think it would be much better to ensure that these farmers are able to produce their own food there. Doesn't Mr Taverne agree with me that, precisely because of the well-understood self-interest, it is our responsibility not to send endless bags of money there, but to ensure that we produce much more regionally? This is not only good for our farmers here in the Netherlands and Europe, but it is also better for the environment than all the dragging of agricultural products around the world, caused by free trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u34	I think it is time for them to become self-sufficient in many countries. The only question is whether the Netherlands, together with other countries, should be held responsible for creating a situation in which this can happen. It is not that we started to give development aid last year. So you can also ask yourself how much it has helped that, in Mrs Thieme's opinion, we still have the responsibility to ensure that things are going better there. I can get a comparison from Einstein about the definition of insanity: doing the same thing every time and finding out that it doesn't help to do it again. It's kind of like that sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr Taverne continued his speech. I would like to hear brief and concise answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u36	I will take that into account, of course, but this is such an important subject. It's hard to always limit yourself to that. Not that nothing happened, quite the contrary! Over the last 20 years, poverty in the world has been significantly reduced. In 1990 there were some 2 billion people living in extreme poverty worldwide, with less than $1.25 a day to spend, and in 2010 this figure had fallen to 1.2 billion people. However, the question is whether and to what extent development aid, including Dutch development aid, has contributed to this. The World Bank, a respected institute, answered that question in 2000 in its report Can Africa claim the 21st century? as follows: I translate it: recent research shows that historically there have been no significant impacts of aid flows on policy and cannot be significantly demonstrated that aid has contributed to economic growth. In short, according to the World Bank, development aid has not been shown to have contributed to economic development. In line with this, the rapporteurs of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Development have had to establish for the second time in a row after examining the budget that, at least on the basis of the budget, it cannot be demonstrated that Dutch development aid has contributed to economic development in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u37	It is good that the World Bank concluded in 2000 that the growth that took place up to 2010 is not related to development aid at all. I have great respect for the World Bank, but I didn't know they could look forward ten years. How exactly did Mr Taverne reach that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u38	The World Bank does this all the time. The bank has a number of departments looking into the future. It is true that this conclusion is from 2000, unless Mr Van Laar can show the figures showing that all growth has taken place over the past sixteen years, which is not the case. That's why it's still an interesting conclusion after 30 years of development aid. I do not want to put that aside in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u39	Apart from what I thought of that conclusion from 2000, aid is constantly changing and the way it is happening is constantly changing. To conclude, on the basis of a report from 2000, that assistance in 2016 still does not work or would work, seems to me to go quite far. I think that's too big a step for a man who's constantly looking for evidence, effectiveness and figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u40	I merely quoted the World Bank as proof of my determination. Maybe we can talk about the World Bank authority some other time. Aid should contribute to economic development in Africa, because the aim of development aid must be that at some point it is no longer necessary because the countries receiving aid have used it to become economically and socially independent. Does the Minister agree with the VVD Group? I would like to return to the need for a well-developed state to flourish economically. It may explain why the development of many countries in Africa is lagging behind despite a great deal of aid. It may also have to do with the fact that a lot of development aid has a rather paternalistic character: we come to bring money, we tell you how to do it, and if it is not convenient, we will take it out of your hands. The Minister pays a lot of money to improve the rule of law and to promote social progress in partner countries. Can the Minister, referring to the conclusion of the World Bank mentioned above, namely that it is a proven ineffective method, indicate why it is pursuing this policy as it is pursuing it? The Minister also helps countries to set up and strengthen the tax authorities. At first glance, that's a good idea. After all, if countries themselves collect more or even more taxes, they need less development aid. But doesn't the fact that countries still need help in this respect show that the governments of those countries are apparently so weak and corrupt that it is more justified to ask whether it is justified to give development aid in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u41	If Mr Taverne is now going to peel off all the Minister's help and show that it doesn't make much sense, I'm going to interrupt him for a moment. It would appear that the VVD is not for development aid at all. In my view, the VVD's electoral programme leaves a small tail to spend on development aid. In the introduction to that electoral programme, I assume that Mr Taverne, who still supports it, states, for example, that migration flows and the causes of migratory flows must be tackled, that there must be reception in the region and that military security operations must also be paid out of the development cooperation budget. So Mr Taverne still sees the usefulness of development cooperation, I suppose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u42	Yes, otherwise we would have included something else in the electoral programme and otherwise I would not have started to say that aid can indeed help, depending on the conditions under which it is deployed. Mr Voordewind has read our electoral programme, or at least its concept. It says that the VVD is for emergency aid, that the VVD believes that we should continue to contribute to the EU's OS budget and, more importantly, that we should contribute to multilateral organisations, on condition that we also have an impact on the agenda, but that we may have to stop bilateral aid. Because it's hugely fragmented. Again, if you look at the entire terrain, you can see that it is proven to be non-effective. But we do not run away from the responsibilities that exist, including for a country like the Netherlands, and which are also in our own interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u43	That's clear. Mr Taverne lists a number of things with which the VVD wishes to continue. I also mentioned a number of things. At the same time, the same electoral programme states that "billion euros" can be cut in structural terms. I will translate that, but if at least that can go down to maybe 2 billion, on top of the 2 billion that Rutte I and II have already taken off. Then I will not have much money left, as I say to Mr Taverne, because then I will come up with about 1.5 million for some emergency aid. With that, Mr Taverne cannot pay for all those operations. This means that he cannot pay for military operations, remove the root causes of migratory flows, pay the European payments and pay the multilateral contributions. Isn't he gonna run out of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u44	I think 4 billion minus 2 billion is 2 billion. At the VVD we still find that a lot of money. However interesting and beneficial the aim of strengthening the tax function in a state is, to what extent should you not ask yourself whether it is still justified to help a country with such a thing if it is still necessary and apparently not so? A country with little or no culture of tax collection is unlikely to have the infrastructure to spend aid money responsibly. If that is the reason to circumvent the governments of those countries by providing assistance through local NGOs or non-local NGOs, then the question is whether it is right to maintain a poor or not functioning state. It ensures that the population no longer demands more from its government; it is compensated by foreign aid. The poor functioning of the government is then camouflaged by external assistance. And with that, we have entered a vicious circle of development aid, ill-functioning governments and an immaculate population. The post-war period shows that countries benefit most economically from free trade, not the most popular issue at the moment. I'll say a little more about that later. However, free trade is crucial for the development of developing countries. It is hard to see that trade barriers, often created by the countries that provide development aid, often make it difficult for countries that receive aid to sell their products in the West, and Mrs Thieme has already referred to them a little bit, and thus hindering their economic development. How does the Minister view this? What's she gonna do about it? And what else can she do about it? However, there is also hope. Despite not always successful development aid policies, some parts of Africa are doing well. Ethiopia, for example, has an economic growth rate of 9.6% and Mozambique has an economic growth rate of 6.3%. A threat to this growth is predicted demographic developments. From 1.2 billion people in sub-Saharan Africa today, the figure is 2.5 billion in 2050 and over 4 billion in 2100. Instead of being so naive to think that these are all people starting up with the help of the Netherlands, we should think about how to prevent the population from growing so quickly. The consequences for food security, climate and immigration will be immense. The position of women and girls to determine for themselves whether and, if so, how many children they want is still weak in large parts of Africa. Today, women in a country like Mali have an average of 6.85 children, compared to 1.7 in the Netherlands. What can the Netherlands, in the view of the Minister at bilateral level, as long as we still provide bilateral aid, and do multilaterally within the UN and World Bank and at EU level to deal with this problem? Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u45	I'm listening to this. First of all, we are going to abolish bilateral aid, but it must be put back into practice in the last budget debate. The VVD insists on effectiveness and efficiency as well as the CDA always insists on it, but at the same time the VVD wants to push through the aid to multilateral institutions, where there are a lot of questions, and stop bilateral aid. Mr Taverne is losing me a little bit. Maybe he can catch me up. What's he really talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u46	Of course, I wouldn't like to lose the CDA and Mrs Mulder the least. It is not as crazy as it seems, because the reality is that we are providing bilateral aid, contributing to multilateral aid and contributing to the EU. In response to another question, I told you that we must continue. That is firstly because we have that obligation at EU level. Secondly, we are contributing to multilateral organisations provided that we have an impact on the agendas of these institutions, so that we can also address this type of issue there and deal with it in a multilateral context. After all, the Netherlands is not going to prevent population growth in Africa on its own. But once again, the fact is that we are still spending money bilaterally. The VVD's theorem is that as long as we do, we can use it better to address a colossal problem like the population explosion in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u47	There are a lot of local organisations, also Dutch, that do good work in the countries there. They are vetted from front to back, ten times, and much more than the multilateral organisations. Those are proven effective, because they have been vetted up to and including. The VVD then chooses to give the money to the multilateral organisations and not to invest in the organisations that did succeed. How are we supposed to rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u48	We must rhyme with this because there are some comments to be made about the certainty with which Mrs Mulder says they are proven to be effective. The budgetary investigation we discussed with the Minister last Monday showed this year, but also last year, that the effectiveness of the money we spend bilaterally cannot really be so strong and well established. There are stacks of results; we have discussed this in detail. Nor has the Minister stated without reason that he is committed to demonstrating not only the legality and efficiency of this type of expenditure, but also its practical impact. She did that because in many cases that is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u49	Good. I would ask you once again to make the answers a little more concise. I would also ask colleagues to impose some self-restraint on the interruptions. Mr Van Laar has the floor for his third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u50	We're not gonna agree, but sometimes something raises so many questions that you still want to ask something. It is precisely the bilateral programmes that relate to the trade relationship we have with countries. The link between development cooperation and trade has already been demonstrated. For every euro you give bilaterally to development cooperation, you get €0.40 in trade. All private sector programmes are also included in the bilateral programmes. The VVD therefore proposes to stop private sector development, public-private cooperation and other such programmes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr President, allow me. I would not have liked to raise the subject myself, but Mr Van Laar has a sensitive point here. He states that bilateral aid is also good for trade relations. I dare to doubt that. We also have the "pleasure and influence" part of the policy. In short, this means that the Netherlands provides financial support to organisations such as NGOs in countries and enables itself to fight against the policy of the government there, which the Netherlands does not like. Mr Van Laar knows all about this subject. My position is that the Minister is responsible on the one hand for foreign trade and for promoting it, while on the other hand part of the policy is directly opposed to it. That is my firm impression and I am getting those signals. The Minister is committed to free trade, but she also subsidises SOMO in the Netherlands, which is active against the conclusion of free trade agreements. The same applies to bilateral aid. If we finance clubs in country A that oppose the government, does Mr Van Laar think that the local government is getting excited about doing business with Dutch entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u52	The problem with Mr Taverne is that he does not support his statements and impressions. He then ignores the evidence that there is, the investigation into that relationship. Mr Taverne wants to abolish all bilateral programmes. Do I understand him correctly that he also wants to abolish all private sector programmes? If so, we can take steps today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u53	Now Mr Van Laar is talking about the external trade component, which I now come to. The VVD's statement is that bilateral development aid is not proven to be effective and that we must stop doing so for that reason. The word has already fallen a few times: free trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u54	This is an important point, Mr President. I understand your agenda problems, and so are ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u55	Also your calendar problems...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u56	Exactly, that's what I'm saying. Those are ours, too. I have more appointments this evening, which are going into tribulation, but this is a very important issue. If you look at the scientific literature, there is a meta-analysis of the literature that measures its effectiveness.I know from this a meta-study that shows that 30% of the projects are indeed effective. The recommendation of that study is to learn and zoom in on the type of project that is effective. Mr Taverne is throwing away the baby with the bath water on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u57	I suspect that Mr Dijkgraaf refers to the 8,000-page thick study, and I see that he shakes no, but at least there are a lot of trees sacrificed to it that seemed to indicate that it worked, but oddly enough, the demand for effectiveness was not part of this study. We can set up a scientific discourse on metastudies here, but that does not seem very interesting to me and it also becomes very technical. If Mr Dijkgraaf has those numbers, I'd like to see them. I note that the Chamber has now twice laid down the development cooperation part of the budget along the line of 'hand-off, control and budgeting' and twice concluded that the effectiveness of the current budget is not or is very difficult to measure. This is based on independent research, supported by the great official support here in the Chamber. That is what I am restricting myself to now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u58	You could indeed have a whole debate about it. However, the fact that something is not proven to be effective does not mean that it is not effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yeah, I'd like another one!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u60	It's just the political side you want to sit on. If Mr Taverne says that 100% of the projects must always be effective and that you have to be able to demonstrate that with numbers, you can stop a number of projects. I would say: learn from it, focus on those projects that are effective and stop the ineffective projects. This doesn't mean you have to drain the whole bath and also throw the child away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u61	I know Mr Dijkgraaf and his party as extremely serious and thorough. We also have a professor present in Mr Dijkgraaf's person. Now he says: if it is not proven effective, it is also not proven to be effective. That is fine, but that is not sustainable for an annual expenditure of 4 billion. That would be a great deal!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u62	And so you have to learn from it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u63	Yes, but if you spend 4 billion a year, and we've been spending 40 years, and it's still not proven effective, it's the world upside down that Mr Dijkgraaf here claims that it's still not proven ineffective. I believe that the obligation of proof is on the side of those who say that we should continue spending 4 billion a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u64	Let me come back to the increase in the population Mr Taverne mentioned. I think we are concerned about this. What else does he think the Minister should do about this? The United Nations has had a family planning programme for a long time. There are all kinds of local initiatives, and in part it regulates itself, because the more prosperity arises, the smaller the families get. Our parents or grandparents were still from large families, Mr Dijkgraaf may still be. The Africans did not come to the Netherlands then to tell us that we had to take smaller families. What else needs to be done on top of what's already happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u65	I think there's a lot to be done. I think Mr Smaling's premise is correct. After all, history shows that there will eventually be smaller families if people become more prosperous. Given on the one hand the predictions of the development of Sub-Saharan Africa's population, let me start with that and on the other hand the track record of economic development in that part of the world, which has been helped with development aid over the past decades, there is reason to believe that this time that kite does not go on. I do not think economic growth can keep pace with the increase in the population in sub-Saharan Africa. I don't think that 4 billion people are going to start a start-up and all of them will join consumers. I believe that this will lead to very serious problems in the area of food. Furthermore, climate problems are often mentioned. I think it is naive to think that the development we have experienced in our part of the world will also take place in Africa; certainly not in the next 75 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u66	That 9 billion is just a fact. It's not just him in the births. That's one way. People used to die young, and now they're getting older. That's the other side. So people are getting older and that contributes to the increase. That's a point. Should we not be much more committed to resource-saving and helping to develop circular economies? You have to do everything you can so that you can live with those 9 billion people here and so that you can go with one planet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u67	I agree with Mr Smaling. I think it's en-and-and-and-and-and-and. This potential problem is so big that there is no silver bullet for that. There's not a single solution for that. I think it is very unwise and very unrealistic to trust that what has happened so far in our part of the world, the Western world, is now going to go on, that more prosperity will lead to smaller families. Once again, over the past few decades, there has been no example that inspires us the confidence that it will be so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr Taverne must know for himself that he cannot really mean it as rabbily as he puts it here. In fact, he said that this budget is not sufficiently substantiated in this way. That's quite another thing than saying it's not effective, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u69	Now Mrs Van Veldhoven blames me for being rabid. I do not mind, but then she gives an example showing that I am not at all rabid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u70	I am very pleased, Mr Taverne, that you confirm that my interpretation of your words is the right one. That means that you did not just say that it was not effective. Then I do not understand why you put on such big pants and disagree with what Mr Dijkgraaf just said, namely that, if we are to pay taxpayers' money, we must always learn what can be done effectively and how we are to do it effectively. Your statement just now was that it is completely ineffective and that we may as well stop, because it is not substantiated. However, I am glad that you yourself support my reading of what you have said, namely that we need to provide a sound basis and that this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u71	I am rather shocked, because Mrs Van Veldhoven was one of the rapporteurs on the OS part of the budget this year. It also states that steps have been taken and that this is important. That includes compliments to the Minister. But it is also worrying that after 40 years of aid we are now taking the first steps to make the budget and the effectiveness of aid transparent. Again, after 40 years, if you're still asking that kind of rudimentary questions, I think you should think about the last 40 years. It seems that Mrs Van Veldhoven uses the same statement as Mr Dijkgraaf, namely that if it has not been demonstrated that it is not effective, it is obviously effective. I like living with the reverse burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mrs. Van Veldhoven, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u73	I can imagine that the VVD has taken on government responsibility more often over the past 40 years. If that is the case, why has the VVD never done anything in all these years to justify the proper use of all that tax money? That's what I'm so pissed off about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u74	That's kind of a U-turn, but Mrs Van Veldhoven is free to do so. Okay, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u75	I have every respect for Mr Taverne's call to see if we can make the budget more transparent. I commend him for his commitment over the past year. If he takes the view that the aid given by the Minister on behalf of the Netherlands is not substantially effective, he must read the budget again, because it contains a whole series of sad activities alone. The fact that this output is listed there was partly thanks to Mr Taverne. We can discuss the sustainability of investment, for example on the basis of the World Bank's reports on this. Moreover, the World Bank says that 50% of these sustainable projects have indeed succeeded. Surely, then, Mr Taverne cannot insist that all the money we have invested is not invested effectively and sustainably?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u76	At the risk of being reasonable: that is not my position at all. It has always been my view that it has not been demonstrated, at least not in a significant way, that the Dutch aid has contributed. Mr Dijkgraaf then states that it has not been demonstrated that it is not, and that is why it is. Mr Voordewind obviously follows him in that direction, but that is a bit of the reasoning: there is Saint Nicholas, because it has not been shown that he does not exist. I am not denying that it has not helped, but I am saying that if everyone is convinced that it has helped, it must be very easy to show the results that prove that it has been effective. I do not deny that a lot of contraceptives have been distributed and that a lot of other things are happening, but I have not yet seen convincing evidence that that has made a difference. I have also said that the most serious poverty, extreme poverty, has been largely eliminated, but it would be nice if there was evidence that the Dutch aid has contributed so much and so much. There's no evidence!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u77	Perhaps the confusion arises because Mr Taverne has different objectives than the Ministry. We have had debates here before with Mr Boekestin and it turned out that economic growth was his criterion. In his view, therefore, development cooperation should contribute to economic growth. He referred to Asia, where it was perfectly possible to do without development cooperation. But the objective of this ministry is not so much to contribute to economic growth as to poverty reduction. I'm just gonna focus on the ODA spending, separate from the help. The IOB reports of recent years have proved that it is not helpful for the VVD to cut back on development cooperation, as this had to be a prompt release of all kinds of projects. As a result, we have lost a lot of money over the past year, and that is certainly not helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u78	I think it is a very cynical observation by Mr Voordewind that we should look very closely at the objective and that it is no longer economic development but poverty reduction. Mr Voordewind will have to agree with me that the ultimate objective must be economic growth, because that is the only way to make countries economically healthy, independent and prosperous. The best thing that can happen to a country is that it no longer needs development aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr President, I actually wanted to make a personal statement because of course I am furious! Well, that's not so bad. I'm being miscited, though. I didn't say I assume that if it's not proven ineffective, it's effective. All I've said is: figure it out better if you're short. We have had this discussion, partly on the basis of and thanks to Mr Taverne. After all, he insisted that it should be better understood in the budget. I myself am very much in favour of this, but you cannot jump to conclusions on one side or the other. You're wrong in both camps. Mr Taverne is wrong in one camp and he accuses me of being wrong in the other camp, but I am not in that other camp at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u80	At least it's 1-1. I understand Mr Dijkgraaf's point, but I think it is rather late to arrive at that point after 40 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u81	I want you to finish your speech, because we're running from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u82	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Free trade is one of the most important conditions for economic development, growth and prosperity. The free trade agreements between the European Union and Canada and those between the European Union and the US are the two most recent examples. Both treaties have been negotiated for a long time; the Convention with Canada has been negotiated for seven years. The VVD was, is and remains for free trade of products and services. This means that we earn our money and have become prosperous, and that means that we now, after seven years of Rutte I and II Cabinets, have, among other things, a very low level of unemployment. I ask the Minister whether she sees it as such and whether it remains unabated to see the agreement with Canada enter into force. Free trade agreements mean lower import duties, less import and export costs and more entrepreneurs from small and medium-sized enterprises who can sell their products and services more easily. Inevitably, free trade agreements and free trade also have people and businesses who benefit less from them. There will have to be some form of compensation for this. The question to the Minister is how far it is going to go in identifying that category of persons, companies and institutions and any compensation to them. It's not the Minister's commitment. She is full of good intentions, but has she always made the right choices? For example, would it not have been better to appoint the CETA Convention as an EU-only treaty, whatever it is? The Treaty would have entered into force by now. In this house, too, colleagues often take advantage of each other to destroy an important engine of our economy. It is not possible for the VVD Group to understand how people can be so shortsighted. What opportunities does the Cabinet see for successful ratification of the CETA Convention? A second important issue is the dumping of steel by China on the Western European market. Many modern steel companies, including Tata Steel in IJmuiden, which is the only company with its own rating and zip code, are threatened in this way by their survival. A company that operates clean and innovatively in the region of Amsterdam and Haarlem, with jobs for around 25,000 people, is quietly demolished by dumping Chinese steel. Moreover, this steel is produced very pollutingly by some in this Chamber. Environmental standards do not count in the production of this Chinese steel and innovation does not play any role. I ask the Minister, after her disappointing letter of 26 October last on the non-application of the so-called Lesser Duty Rule, what the Cabinet is going to do to save this employment. Why does the EU not take countermeasures? The position taken by the cabinet in the Minister's letter referred to above can be found on pag. In my group's view, 7, to be precise, which is sufficient room for adequate protection of the Dutch steel sector, is not sufficiently substantiated. What concrete action will the Minister take to ensure that the European Commission uses the scope already provided by the current anti-dumping policy in practice? I come to the so-called agreements for international corporate social responsibility (imvo). The VVD Group has always resisted the idea of an independent impo-supervisor. We continue to believe that companies should cooperate voluntarily. We do not see anything in the proposal to allow the Public Prosecutor's Office to monitor progress and violations of the import agreements. Can the Minister explain the current state of play with regard to this independent supervisor? The VVD Group previously called for attention to be given to a bottleneck in the new Competition and Sustainability Policy Rule of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So far we have not received a letter from the Minister. Does it intend to allow the ACM to give the preliminary view on the agreements? I see her nodding. We would like to discuss further issues related to social entrepreneurship during the round table which will soon be on the agenda in this House. Finally, on foreign trade, I would like to pay attention to the Dutch Good Growth Fund and the letter on the state of play sent by the Minister to the Chamber on 25 October. The VVD Group has taken note of developments in volume and the number of applications in the various parts of the DGGF. We are pleased that DGGF has contributed to the creation of some 14,000 jobs. The first funds invested by the cabinet are successfully returned to the budget and can be used to generate new success. As far as the VVD is concerned, this policy has proved successful. We thank the Minister for that and continue to follow her closely on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u83	Is this the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u84	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u85	I have a question about the Dutch Good Growth Fund. I agree with Mr Taverne on one point, namely that if development cooperation does not work on one point, you must stop. It has now been clearly demonstrated that rail 3, export credit insurance, is not working. It has no multiplier effect and there is hardly any demand for it. Why don't we stop doing that? Shall we just stop with track three today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mr Van Laar is looking forward to his opportunity, because my colleague, Mrs Teeven, is watching the elections in the United States. Of course, I'm not falling for that. We are not going to stop because, in the opinion of the VVD Group, this is a successful part of the Minister's policy; that is why I was very enthusiastic about it. So I must disappoint Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u87	So, what's the success of that? The Minister notes that there is hardly any multiplier effect and that there is no demand for it. The money's on the shelf, but it can't actually be put away. Why are we leaving that money on the shelf? Let's put it somewhere where it does come into its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u88	I think 14,000 jobs are a significant result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u89	That's not because of track 3, it's because of tracks 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u90	That's three together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u91	I would have expected Mr Taverne to conclude his speech with great compliments to this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u92	I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u93	I have heard a very nice story, a tirade of about 45 minutes, about the ineffectiveness of development cooperation. According to Mr Taverne, we should stop doing that. It was a warm plea for free trade, free trade and free trade. I think that Mr Taverne has been served at his beck and call. The budget for development cooperation is declining rapidly, while the interests of Dutch companies are being thoroughly brushed up. In the meantime, we spend the most money for development cooperation on the Netherlands itself. In addition, this Minister regulates CETA neatly. Why does Mr Taverne not offer the Minister the honorary membership of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u94	Perhaps Mr Grashoff was doing something for himself when I sent the compliments to the Minister. I have done so in particular in connection with the trading part of her portfolio. At that point, she deserves all the praise and I am happy to sing it to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u95	That sounds better. I hope the Minister is very pleased with that. In 2015, the budget was 5.1 billion. In 2016, the budget was 4.7 billion and in the 2017 budget it is 3.9 billion. Under unchanged policies, this amount will fall to 3.4 billion in 2019. Mr Taverne was fully involved in the removal of development cooperation. His very rabid story, which is actually a bit of the intellectual packaging of Mr Bosma's story, which is summarized as "Ike, ikke, ikke," is entirely carried out by this Minister of the Labour Party. Mr Taverne should set up a statue for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u96	Well, that's what my colleague of culture is about. I can only repeat that I congratulated the Minister with great conviction on the external trade section. I think my input speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u97	I read in the newspaper that Mr Taverne is not coming back to the Chamber and that his parliamentary career is coming to an end. He will certainly regret that himself, but it does give him a certain degree of freedom. As a Member of Parliament, you are often attached to an election programme... Mr Taverne is also attached to a coalition... your hands are tied behind your back and you have to talk with flour in your mouth. But Mr Taverne is actually completely liberated. He's a free man. Now that he can take a little more distance from the politics of recent years and now that he finds that the VVD continues with this crazy development aid and reserves another 2 billion for that bottomless pit, while we have heard from him a tirade, as Mr Grashoff said, about development aid and its lack of effectiveness, would he not want to be honest at the end of his political career and say: let's just stop all development aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u98	Another dossier, to which reference has already been made, has shown, in my opinion, that membership of the VVD Group has never made me feel unfree. The stage at which I find myself is therefore not an important factor in bringing forward my views, not even in this respect. So I do not need to change my views on any part of my membership, and I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u99	Mr. Chairman. Last year, when we discussed the budget for external trade and development cooperation, we discussed in particular the large numbers of refugees, both from the Middle East and from Africa. Although that news no longer fills the front pages on a daily basis, the refugee issue continues to call our attention. Development cooperation therefore remains absolutely necessary for the CDA, not only for reasons of principle, because no one lives for themselves, but also for very practical reasons: when millions of people migrate from Africa, we hold our hearts in Europe. The African continent and ours don't get any better when too many people aim to move to the other side of the Mediterranean. Due to the extreme weather, from major droughts to heavy rainfall, and due to the rise in sea levels due to climate change, many people in developing countries will face major challenges in the near future. If we have insufficient awareness of this and if we take too little action, we will see an increasing flow of migrants leaving home. That is precisely why climate change is important in this budget too. Our country can help other societies with our knowledge and innovations. Collaboration between business, government, knowledge institutions and civil society organisations is important in order to tackle the climate issue together. Last year, after the budget debate in Paris, the climate agreement was concluded to reduce CO emissions. I was there with a lot of colleagues here. The Netherlands can play a role in both mitigation and adaptation. A great deal of money will be made available for both over the next few years. In the field of adaptation, in particular, our business is at the forefront. We need to cash that position. The opportunities will not come fully automatically to our business. How's the minister gonna cash our position? What instruments does it intend to use? How does she work with her colleagues from I and M and EZ? The CDA would like to see an investment bank for a transition to a more CO-neutral economy, in which society also benefits from these investments. In developing countries, the FMO (Dutch Financing Society for Developing Countries) has been showing for years that it achieves very good results through investments in high-risk countries and high-risk projects. Its own funds have increased from EUR 600 million at the start of the bank to EUR 2.5 billion now. That's worth a big compliment. Then the talents you're being given are really well deployed. So it's possible. Such a bank is also needed for investment in the Netherlands itself. In the coming years, billions will be invested in climate and energy. Is that purely a cost to society, or does that also give us something in the longer term? How does the Minister view such an investment bank next to the FMO? However, the problems in the Middle East are still very great and the need to support that region remains very present. The CDA is thinking of a combination of military support, development cooperation and, of course, emergency aid. We can only see that the emergency aid budget is being reduced by almost half a billion. In previous debates, we have repeatedly called on the Minister to find a solution to this rapidly falling budget. However, we do not see any of that in the budget. We also asked questions about this last Monday at the WHO, the legislative consultation. The Minister then promised to come back to that today or tomorrow. In the answers, the Minister writes that the Cabinet is examining the possibilities for additional funding of the Dutch Relief Alliance. We should like to hear from the Minister what possibilities she sees for this supplementary funding. Can it guarantee that the motions adopted in the House of Representatives will still be carried out? As far as the CDA is concerned, we should also look at the European Union when it comes to providing assistance in the region. This means that we need to look very closely at our commitment to the deal we made with Turkey over EUR 6 billion. Can this be used flexibly in the rest of the region? How much has already been transferred to Turkey? The last messages we hear are that it's going very slowly. The CDA would like the Minister to make an effort to use some of the money in Jordan and Lebanon. Does she see opportunities for that? We are giving EUR 6 billion from the European Union to Turkey. From the Dutch jar for shelter in the region another 90 million goes that way. Can the Minister go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u100	I would like to come back to the issue of the investment bank and to invest in sustainability and energy for the future. I can go along with that very much. If you look at the pots that are currently available to invest in developing countries, you can see that there are hardly any sustainability criteria attached to them. For example, investments are also made in sectors and industries where the sustainability aspects are totally excluded. Does the CDA and the Party of Animals believe that sustainability criteria should be laid down in all these jars, including in the case of a possible future investment bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u101	I think it's very good to look at that. I would also like to know how the Minister reacts to this. I have been able to visit many projects in Africa in the context of trade and development cooperation. It turned out that the FMO is doing very well, for example by investing in a dam in Uganda, where a quarter of the country's electricity is simply from renewable energy. There are more examples. We've seen solar panel projects in Rwanda. I think the FMO is already working on that. However, we need to take a broad look at the criteria that we have for this and the way in which we use them. And does that also fit in with the international character? If we are going to be very different from the rest of the world, then of course we are restricting ourselves again. In the end, we all want to achieve that renewable energy and that CO reduction in our world and make the most of the money we have available for that. I think it is quite right that we should discuss the energy transition facility with each other, as it is so horribly called in the letter from Economic Affairs. We have to deal with that. This is an incredible opportunity, especially for our business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u102	We have seen in recent years that in export credit insurance money went to mega stables in developing countries. The question is whether you would like to subsidise or guarantee that with export credit insurance. Therefore, it is important to link sustainability criteria to it. In addition to positive investments, does Mrs Mulder also see that a lot of money has been wasted because it has gone to unsustainable sectors, and that we should tackle that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u103	There are two different values attached to this. You want to feed as many people as possible. Food security is an important support point in our policy. You also want it to be done in a sustainable way. One doesn't automatically exclude the other. We must all look closely at what we are going to invest in over the next few years. I think the Minister will be happy to respond to how she sees it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mrs Mulder finishes her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u105	I'd like to make an appeal to the Minister. In addition to climate change, I would also like to focus briefly on the reuse of medical equipment in the field of sustainability. In the Netherlands, at least hundreds of charity organisations are active for healthcare institutions in developing countries. To alleviate medical needs, all kinds of used medical equipment and disposables have been collected and adapted in the Netherlands and sent to healthcare institutions in third countries. The organisations that are committed to this work work very autonomously. I call on the Minister to consult with the Health colleague with the hospitals and civil society organisations on how the government and the organisations together can re-use the equipment that is there. It ends up too often now, after it's written off, just hoppakee on the junkyard. That is a really missed opportunity, for us in the Netherlands, for combating waste, but also for the reuse that can take place there. So I would like to see a perhaps national re-use platform. Perhaps the Minister and I could discuss whether we can actually do that. Last Monday we had a legislative consultation with colleagues. For the CDA it is important that both the inhabitants here and the inhabitants in third world countries get a perspective. That also prevents you from running. That is why I would ask the Minister to respond to the motion I tabled together with Mrs Van Veldhoven. I'd like to hear more about that. Then I'll be on the Dutch Good Growth Fund. This is important for the role in development cooperation. For example, I am receiving questions from Indonesia about the fact that very few loans are being granted there. That could have something to do with the way it was set up. It would go through India and not through organisations in Indonesia itself. Maybe the minister can reflect on that. In the end, we want the right groups to be reached with this fund. We were talking about that on Monday. You can control 50 people or 100, but what group needs it the most? Do we reach the right target groups with this fund? How many transactions between €10,000 and €80,000 have taken place? I'd like to ask the Minister that question. I've got a lot more, but I'm out of time. That's why I quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u106	Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's gonna be a long time waiting for dinner. Mr. Bosma won the sprint.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u107	I always win from Mr Voordewind, Mr President. The word "sustainable" fell. The CDA has always been committed to development aid. It's been doing that for a long time. For example, it has always wanted to support the ANC. It almost dropped a cabinet over the ANC. Mr Jan Nico Scholten did. The CDA has always worked very hard to support that club and that country. If you see how that country is developing now: there is brown water coming out of the taps, there is often no electricity and there are 114 racial laws. In the last few weeks, we've seen all these riots there. The universities are on fire and the statue of Paul Kruger burned down last week. The infrastructure is deteriorating and education is the worst in Africa. All that while there's so much money going on. When I think back to Jan Nico Scholten, who was so passionate about development aid and support for the ANC...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u108	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u109	I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. This is another example of the fact that development aid does not produce anything substantial and positive. Or is it? Can Mrs Mulder mention a positive development in that country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u110	Just after the revolution in South Africa, Mr Mandela really meant a lot to the country. I have experienced this as positive and the whole world has seen Mandela as positive. However, I am very concerned about the situation in South Africa with Mr Bosma at the moment. You would like support to avoid anything for the future, but the country itself plays a major role in this. Unfortunately, they didn't pick it up the way we might like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u111	I would like to invite Mrs Mulder to find out what Mr Mandela did with education when he was President, but that aside. All these years of struggle, almost dropping a cabinet, all making demands, Jan Nico Scholten who left the group, for twenty years a huge cradle from the CDA to get that organization in power there, and now Mrs Mulder says: well, it turned out a little differently; at first it went well and now it's not that much anymore. Where's the paradise that needed all that money? It's become a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u112	I think it is always important to see how you can offer perspective, both here and in developing countries. In the IOB study Good things come to those who make them happen you see that if you give a euro to development cooperation, on average a euro will also come back. This contributes to our exports. In recent years, with the millennium goals and the MFS II, things have been realised. Mr Bosma can take that off if not important and say that it doesn't fit in with his style, but it did. More children have attended education. That's good for me. In particular, more women, children and girls have attended education. That's good for me, too. There are more women active in conflict resolution. Look also at UN Resolution 1323. All steps have been taken that are extremely important, in particular to reduce conflicts. There too, a number of conflicts appear to have been reduced. I think that these are very nice effects, partly from our policy. Perhaps that is not what Mr Bosma wants to see, but it is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u113	We have women this and we have women that. Mrs Mulder comes up with all sorts of abbreviations and reports. If I take a country-by-country look at what has been improved thanks to this development aid, it is very lean. When I look at the country that has always been so important to the CDA and over which the CDA has spent 20 years honking that we had to mainly support the ANC, I find that there has been a lot of tax money going and that that country has gone all the way to rat fashion. Look at the infrastructure, look at the education, look at a lot of things...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u114	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u115	Well, then we'll just have to find out that all that crap the CDA has been about the ANC for 20 years has just been bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u116	I think that is very brief in Mr Bosma's turn. A lot of good things have happened in that country, but of course things have gone very wrong. We have to name it here, and I'm not running away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u117	On many points, the CDA and the Christian Union find each other, but I have read the election programme again, also purely out of interest. It says that the CDA feels that there has been too much savings in recent years. Can Mrs Mulder indicate whether this should end and whether there should be money next year and/or in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u118	It's another draft election program. We'll let the program pass through, so the numbers will be clear. We leave it to our members for a while, but we see, of course, that there has to be a balance. I was just referring to the IOB report. What you invest in developing countries, you get part of it back. So that's good for them and good for us. We will really have to do something for all the refugees, the people who are drifting. This is due, among other things, to the climate, but also to the lack of employment, which is why I supported the SP amendment. Those are all things we need to focus on. We want to achieve this effect, both for the people there and for us here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u119	I'm going through all that, but your list means that the need is only getting worse...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u120	Yeah, that's gonna be him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u121	We need to reserve extra money for climate change and climate change, for refugee shelters and so on. Is the CDA going to make extra money for that in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u122	When our electoral programme is ready, you can read that we could do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. I am also here on behalf of my colleague Jan Vos, who unfortunately cannot be here today. Development cooperation works. This is evident over and over again from stacks of evaluations and reports and from practice. Sometimes development cooperation works for a few hours, when a child on the run can catch his breath, get some food and make a drawing. Sometimes development cooperation works for a few days, when a woman in labor gets the help she needs in time. Sometimes development cooperation works for years, when a farmer learns new techniques to sow and harvest. And sometimes development cooperation works for generations, when children are longer in school and can follow further education. We should not be ashamed of that; we should be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr Bosma, this is already your fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u125	A little one, Mr. Chairman. Is Mr Van Laar also proud of the development aid we have given to Mr Mugabe and all the crazy liberation movements? We financed the ZANU, we financed Zimbabwe and then came the North Korean army, which killed tens of thousands of Matabele, paid by the Dutch taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u126	I am aware that Mr Bosma is making it a hobby to defend all kinds of very serious regimes that once were there, such as apartheid in South Africa and white farmers in Zimbabwe: they were right. Mr Bosma may think so, but I do not think we agree. Maybe we can step over that for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u127	Of course, the PvdA wants to step over that, because the PvdA has financed a lot of genocides. You did that in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Angola and Mozambique. You're proud of that. That Mr. Pronk who did that should just be behind bars. It should just be dealt with like crazy. If there were justice in the Netherlands, Mr. Pronk would be imprisoned. I do not remember in Dutch history people who are directly involved in four genocides. Do you even know him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u128	At least it is not in this budget and I suggest that we do not talk about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u129	May I make a point of order? I do not think it is possible for a former minister to be mentioned here and it is said that he should be behind bars or that he should be behind bars when he cannot defend himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr Bosma does that every year. Oh...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u131	May I respond, Mr. Chairman? This minister is politically responsible for all the actions of her predecessors. In a budget debate, you can make that a point. That seems very politically correct to me, Mrs Thieme. I think you're running away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u132	For the continuation of the debate, we may be able to name a few fewer people who are not here. Let us not constantly name each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u133	I have another point of order. This is where an old executive is addressed. I am fine with Mr Bosma calling on the PvdA to do so, but not an old executive who cannot defend himself here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u134	Let us stop talking about former executives and also call each other a little less often.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u135	Millions of people have been given freedom of choice in their family planning thanks to the Netherlands. Millions of children around the world received vaccination thanks to the Netherlands and millions of sick people became better thanks to the Netherlands. I'm proud of that. The Minister can be proud of that, and I hope you are. But not everything works. Sometimes war destroys results, sometimes there is corruption and not every project works as planned. That's what we need to learn from. Not every progress is linear. Sometimes governments come to power that undos progress or there are presidents who hold on to power and drag their country with them. Moreover, the developing countries are not unique in this respect. This is also happening in Western countries. Donald Trump's victory is even a threat to progress around the world. It is unknown what his presidency will mean for aid budgets, for the United Nations and for international cooperation. His success is, after all, a threat to women. His lived sexism must not become dominant and the position of women is already under international pressure. The PvdA hoped that the election of a woman as Secretary-General of the United Nations and a woman as President of the United States would make the balance look good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u136	Then I'd like to make a point. Then the honourable Member of the PvdA should not mention Donald Trump either!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u137	I suggest you continue. Once again, please do not list all other names here, because then you can sit here until 3:00 a.m., and certainly the following colleagues can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u138	I believe that we can talk about other countries and their influence on the international system. In any case, I was hoping that my daughter would have two striking examples that women in the world could achieve anything. The opposite is the case now. The United Nations and the United States are led by a man and Trump is not just any man. It's a man bragging about how badly he treats women and how he thinks their looks are more important than what they can do or what they stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u139	I would like to change one rule in this house and not rules as the people are politically correct or not. Either we call Mugabe, Jan Pronk and Trump all or none of them, but let's make one rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u140	The American elections, as I heard, will soon be further written and discussed. Let us now turn to the budget for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u141	In my view, Mr Bosma was allowed to make his contribution, and so can I. Unfortunately, Trump is not alone on the international stage. The so-called Unholy Lions of the Vatican, of the Arab states and other rulers who have little contact with women have often threatened to prevail in recent years in discussions on women's rights and equality between men and women. With Trump, they have a powerful ally. Women need a strong international coalition to resist that pressure. Merkel, May, Trudeau, Johnson-Sirleaf, Rutte, Ploumen and many others need to work together to get more women in top positions and to stand up for women in conflict zones, to support women's organisations and to absorb the undesirable effects of shifting American budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u142	A point of order. Mr Trudeau is mentioned, but he cannot defend himself, Mrs Thieme!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u143	We are not talking here about Dutch MPs, former chamber members and former executives. For the rest, names can be mentioned, but I would add that the Foreign Affairs budget will be dealt with next week. I would also ask Mr Van Laar to try to keep his head down. The same applies to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u144	It is of course good practice in this Chamber that we are talking about all kinds of people's opinions. It is also fine to include them in the debate. But if someone is going to criminalise, as Mr Bosma just did, I think you can make a point of order, because you should invite the person about whom it is, to join the debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u145	Good. Mr Van Laar continues. I would urge you not to talk about former colleagues and former executives. Foreign affairs' budget handling is next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u146	I haven't done that yet. I just analyzed the situation of women's rights and threatened them. We would like a strong coalition to be established to include women in conflict zones, to support women's organisations where necessary and to absorb undesirable effects of shifting American budgets, so that it is not the girls who need the help most, who pay the price for this change. That is why I ask our Minister if she is prepared to mobilise her extensive network to form that coalition. Does it want to ensure that Europe is united on this issue and actively working for more women in international top positions? Is the Minister prepared to see if Dutch and European budgets can be targeted to reach women and girls? For example, do the funds that have been released to women's organisations at our request, including those women in conflict areas in the Middle East that they most need? What opportunities does the Minister see for further strengthening the position of women and girls within EU budgets? Can the same action be taken at EU level as in the Netherlands, so that each project has a gender analysis and a clear view of how to strengthen the position of women and girls? The pursuit of equal rights for men and women is only one of the commitments made by the United Nations with itself. In 2030, we want to have overcome extreme poverty, overcome diseases and improve the climate. Seventeen world goals we have set ourselves. If we want to achieve this, we need good work, fair trade, coherent policies and inclusive development cooperation. In this budget, too, the PvdA will make proposals to bring these four crucial conditions closer. Good work is of course a priority for the PvdA. In recent years, the government has managed to bring civil society organisations together in various sectors, with the aim of making the global production chains more sustainable and fairer and cleaner. We identify the risks of violations of labour rights and environmental standards, we agree on how to avoid these risks and we are working on structural solutions, such as living wages. All this is enshrined in the international corporate social responsibility agreements that have already been mentioned. It is an ambitious and exciting process for which the Minister deserves congratulations. A process in which two traditionally suspicious worlds, civil society and the private sector, have to look each other in the eye and engage in confidential relationships. The textile industry and the banking sector have already shown that this can be done. At EU level too, thanks to the Dutch Presidency, such an approach has been combined. That's good. The PvdA attaches importance to the fact that the paper reality of the covenants is now being converted into the actual realization of that fair and clean trade. In doing so, we closely monitor developments in monitoring. We will, if necessary, come up with alternatives to tighter supervision. We've had that discussion before. In this light, can the Minister say anything about the investigation of the National Contact Point into the gas and oil sectors? What is the Minister doing to increase pressure on the other sectors where there are many risks and abuses, especially those which do not yet want to conclude a covenant? The covenants offer a great opportunity for progress. For companies, participation in the covenants is exciting. Domestic and foreign competitors who do not participate in the covenants and who do not undertake corporate social responsibility are getting away with this for the time being. The PvdA doesn't think that's possible. Preventing and combating serious violations, such as child labour, must not remain dependent on voluntary commitment forever. That is why we have tabled an initiative proposal that obliges companies to make efforts to prevent child labour from being contained in their products. That bill will be dealt with in the Chamber before Christmas, if it's up to us. Last year we tabled an amendment to create a fund against child labour. This fund has now been launched and there appears to be a lot of demand from companies to get help to combat child labour. Is the Minister also enthusiastic about the fund? The PvdA wants to structurally anchor and expand the fund, as discussed last Monday. In the Children's Labour Fund, we want to bring together the existing budgets for companies and for civil society organisations under a heading, and of course we want to extend that budget. Does the Minister see opportunities for this? The Labour Party stands for international fair trade. The Netherlands and the European Union must and must remain standard and standard. International guidelines, as laid down by the OECD and international labour organisations, are leading in this respect. Trade brings with it responsibilities. Partly for this reason, the Labour Party is an advocate of maintaining the combination of aid and trade under one roof. It is not the responsibility of the government alone to bear that responsibility. Businesses, preferably in cooperation with civil society and trade unions, must also take this responsibility. The Dutch commitment to Bangladesh's textile industry is a good example of this. Through the joint raising of large purchasing brands of clothing, on the one hand, and targeted public assistance to improve compliance with labour law and working conditions, Bangladesh has gained confidence that making industry more sustainable does not necessarily lead to the internship of economic growth. That has also been picked up in other Asian textile producing countries and therefore offers perspective to actually reverse the race down. Long-term investment is needed to bring about such reversals. The Labour Party therefore welcomes the Minister's earlier commitment to a strategic trade agenda. Can the Minister please tell us what's going on with this agenda? Climate change is causing increasing inequality worldwide. Nearly 30% of the world's population lives in soil dry, barely fertile areas. There is little chance that this situation will improve due to a lack of links with local economic development. This vicious circle applies to almost all vulnerable and poor people affected by climate change. In Mumbai, for example, the poorest people live in the shacks and the cottages that are only resistant to flooding. Should the sea advance, they will pay the highest price. If we really want to put an end to this inequality, we must allow the fight against climate change to play a stronger role in the aid and trade agenda. On the one hand, the Labour Party wants to focus on innovation, the introduction of renewable energy technologies and the reduction of CO emissions. If we invest more in the development of such techniques in the Netherlands, we can also use them earlier and effectively, especially in those places where they are most needed. On the other hand, the Labour Party wants more attention for the poorest. We must prevent large companies, such as dredging companies, from getting money and carrying out projects that only benefit elites. The importance of climate adaptation for the Labour Party should not be confused with, for example, the importance of creating jobs. Last year, in the course of the budgetary process, together with GroenLinks, the PvdA advocated a multi-annual climate finance plan in order to strengthen such trade-offs. We are still looking forward to the implementation of this Klever/Jan Vos motion. When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u147	Why has the PvdA agreed that climate finance has come under development cooperation funds? Does Mr Van Laar not agree with me that, precisely when it comes to tackling the climate, for which the Western countries in particular are responsible, this is a separate approach, independent of development cooperation, and that it is a gutter game to bring it together and sell it as development cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u148	It is not separate from development cooperation, because there are lego interfaces. However, we do think that you should bury it separately. That's also in our election program. We want to return to 0.7% of the gross national product for development cooperation, with climate finance on top of that and the reception of first-year asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u149	Is it not hard to have the same ambitions in your election programme as you had in the 2012 elections and, if you are no longer in the government, you are again ambitious for the developing countries, when you are now at the helm and could have ensured a good development cooperation policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u150	We always have that ambition. It wouldn't be hard for you to take on the views of your coalition partner after a coalition and put them in your election program. I don't think that's the point at all. We hold on to what we want. That's our commitment to the election, and that's how we get seats. If we get 76 seats, the program will be the same as the coalition agreement. If we make less, we will have to work together and make agreements. In this case, we have done so with the VVD. Mrs Thieme will no doubt have noticed that we have not done so on the basis of a broad consensus in the field of development cooperation. It's certainly true that you'll come up with ugly compromises.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u151	I'd like to get on with that. I also looked at the election programmes of 2012 and 2017 of the Labour Party. Both mention the exact same thing. I believe that the leader of the PvdA, based on programmatic agreements, even suggested that the groups of GroenLinks and the PvdA should merge. But it's not that far. I do have a question for Mr Van Laar. Is he going to turn this in just as easily in subsequent cabinet negotiations as he did last time, after blinking his eyes twice? Or will he seriously ignore this point from his own electoral programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u152	Apparently, Mr Grashoff was at the table at the formation. I don't, so I don't know if that happened with the eyes after two blinks. I have the impression that it is not, but perhaps Mr Grashoff has other information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u153	Things went badly with the Netherlands and VVD and PvdA were out in record time. There was a reasonable choice of other parties, which have a high priority for development cooperation, but they are not further involved. Now that passage is back in the election program. Does the PvdA apply that paper is patient or does it want to make a real effort to ensure that it approaches what it writes as closely as possible? That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u154	In my view, Mr Grashoff can see that in the four years following the formation, an enormous effort has been made by the Labour Party to ensure that the influx of asylum seekers does not undermine the development budget and the ongoing development programmes. We have also allocated EUR 1.5 billion extra to emergency aid and reception in the region and to the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands. We have been in constant conflict with the VVD about this and we have constantly disagreed with each other. We have also heard from the Minister that there is a great windfall and that that development money remains. We fight this battle every day and, if it is right, Mr Grashoff has seen it. That battle has come to fruition. I believe that we have managed to keep the budget of recent years fairly in order. We have remained close to the 0.7% standard, despite the agreements in the coalition agreement. In the formation we must certainly try to achieve that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr Van Laar finishes his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u156	Inclusive development cooperation means helping those who need it most and who are the hardest to reach. The Labour Party constantly wants to be alert to forgotten crises and forgotten groups. For example, we welcome the launch of the Voice Fund, which will reach these groups on our initiative. Yet there are always groups that are not or hardly reached, such as the inhabitants of Northern Syria. A few million Kurds, Arabs, Christians, Assyrians, Jezidis and others live there under difficult conditions. Their region is almost entirely closed off from the outside world by Turkey, Assad, IS and the Kurds in northern Iraq. I thank the government for the letter on this region, but I also call for more emergency aid and reconstruction aid for its inhabitants. The region is now receiving much more military support from Western countries than humanitarian aid. That is a strange situation. Is the government prepared to exert pressure on the KRG, the government in northern Iraq, to keep the border with Northern Syria open, at least for relief supplies and aid workers? Will the government invite the Dutch Relief Alliance to come forward with a proposal to intensify emergency aid to this region? Northern Syria is also a special region. Last week, researchers from Utrecht University were invited to the Chamber. They are conducting research on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They confirmed that the position of women in this region is very different and much stronger than elsewhere in the Middle East. For example, there is a shared government where each function is exercised by a man and a woman. Women now also have the right to separate from their husbands, and they make frequent use of them. After the divorce, of course, the situation of these women is not easy in the community that still exists. We therefore ask the Minister to take due account of the position of women in this region when providing aid. We also ask the Minister to ensure that a small proportion of the funds that we have previously allocated to women's organisations reach the women's organisations in Northern Syria, precisely because their need is so high and precisely because the hopeful developments there seem to be an example for the rest of the Middle East and deserve support. If we want to give emergency aid to Northern Syria, of course there must be a budget for that. Last Monday, I indicated that the Labour Party wanted structural additional money for emergency aid, as stated in our earlier motion. We also want the Dutch emergency services to be able to continue their good work, as stated in our earlier motion. The Dutch Relief Alliance has proved its worth and deserves to be continued. The government has now informed us that there is a considerable windfall in the budget for the first-year reception of asylum seekers. The Minister has already indicated on Monday that this money will remain development money. We are pleased with that. The Labour Party also wants the Minister to use a substantial part of these funds to re-fill that emergency aid fund. Is the Minister prepared to do this? I began by saying that development cooperation works and that I am proud of it. For example, I am proud of the results of an initiative I took when I was just spokesperson for development cooperation. I saw a documentary about the nodular disease. That is a mysterious disease that has already affected 10,000 children. Children between 5 years and 15 years of age may get this disease. In the report, I saw those kids who weren't growing anymore. Adults 25 years old seemed to be just 10 years old. Children drool excessively and lose control of their limbs. They nod their heads and get their limbs grown over the years. In addition, they have continued seizures and are mentally deteriorating. They die before their 30th a painful death. It's really maybe the worst disease I've ever seen. The causes of this disease were not yet known and there was no treatment for it, but in response to our questions, the Minister paid EUR 1 million for research into this disease. Last summer, the news came that it was clear what caused the disease and how it could be treated. Sometimes EUR 1 million makes the difference for thousands, sometimes tens of thousands of children. We should be proud of that. More help is needed to combat the disease. Is the Minister prepared to consider how the disease control can be embedded in our multi-annual plans in the relevant countries, for example in South Sudan, where access is very difficult, and how development organisations and international organisations can contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u157	Mr. Chairman. On Monday we were allowed to have an interesting legislative discussion on the same subject, but at a more technical level. Then, of course, we said to each other, "We'll talk on Wednesday," and then a new president was elected. That is now the case. When I saw this morning that Mr Trump was the lead candidate, I had to think of a tweet by Minister Plasterk a week or two or three ago. He retweeted a video-shaped plea by Robert De Niro, in which Robert De Niro argued that Mr Trump should be beaten in his mouth and in which he also called Mr Trump a "pig" and a "pig." Minister Plasterk felt it necessary to post this video message, which I believe was a plea for political violence. That is a strange move for the Minister of the Interior, who has something to do with it. I thought that was kind of weird. I myself put a tweet to that myself. Fortunately, Minister Plasterk's tweet was removed quite quickly, but I think this is quite something. The cabinet speaks with one mouth. We are facing the Foreign Trade Minister here today. I think it is quite a lot that a member of the cabinet speaks that way about someone who is now the president elect of the United States. The country is one of our most important trading partners, has a direct link with our security as NATO partner and has made sacrifices for our freedom like no other. I find that rather tacky.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u158	You or your colleague can continue to raise this issue when dealing with the foreign affairs budget. I suggest that you proceed with this budget now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u159	Yes, but it's about foreign trade now, Mr. Chairman. I fear that our relationship with an important trading partner has been damaged or could be harmed. As Philips, you're gonna be negotiating with an American company. An American then pulls out that tweet of Minister Plasterk and says: look what he said about my head of state! I'd be offended as an American, too. I think it is reasonable for me to ask the Foreign Trade Minister what she thinks of this plea for physical violence against the President of the United States. A second development related to topicality is, of course, the question of what this means for the Minister's climate plans. On Monday we were allowed to hear about this; that was not quantified but very vaguely mentioned. But, Mr Trump, the President elect has already said that I am not going to cooperate. There has just been reference to all the funds needed for all these agreements. That's what he says: fuck you! This minister wants to change the temperature on earth with Dutch commitment, but Mr Trump does not believe in that. I think America is bigger than the Netherlands. So what does that mean? Is she just going on with her climate ideas, which are based on Mr. Gore's theories? I think this is a very interesting development. Surely it would be proud if the Netherlands continued to do so, while America said: look at it? All this development aid is just wasted money. The West has now spent $2,500 billion on development aid, but there is no substantial evidence that it has really helped in a sustainable way. There will be all kinds of projects that we have been able to look at on Monday, which have a certain effect occasionally, but there are simply no substantial positive effects in the developing countries on the long term in terms of economic growth or structural poverty reduction, to come up with anything, or in terms of any positive criterion that you want to come up with. Read Mr Easterly's and Mrs Mojo's books and the World Bank's report. Bernard Lugan has also written beautiful books, whole libraries full of them. Last week The New York Times said: that in recent years it has been called out that Africa is coming back all the way, is all nice, but when you look at it at country level, it is very disappointing. Eritrea and Ethiopia were mentioned. The Norwegian Morten Jerven was also mentioned; I have also quoted him in the past. He says that all those statistics that are screened to show that Africa is doing so well just don't add up. He gives very interesting examples of this. I've done quite a bit of research on South Africa myself. That's where I looked at statistics. Many professors and scholars say the same thing: these official statistics are simply not right. They say, "Make sure they don't knock," and you're gonna be a long way off. The idea of the development aid lobby that the earth is at first raging and empty in Africa and that it is then waved with the beautiful stick of development aid, after which it all goes much better, turns out to be wrong when you look at it at country level. I will now come up with many examples, but perhaps Mrs Van Veldhoven can do her thing first. I don't want to keep her waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u160	I let her sit quietly and wait for you to drop a silence. Now I give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr Bosma spoke of knocking. I have a question I've been wanting to ask for a while. Something's not right about the PVV story. On the one hand, she says: we do not want migration. On the other hand, she says: we do not want to put money into developing those countries to prevent people from drifting. How does Mr Bosma make that sum knock?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u162	That's not a sum. It is up to those countries themselves to develop. A lot of countries have also just evolved. And many countries have done the opposite of development. In 1948 Rhodesia was quite a prosperous country, a granary. Israel was then a stinking desert. Now Zimbabwe is a huge gang. Every once in a while, they have $216 in cash. There are famines. That country has completely collapsed. On the assembly line there is murder and manslaughter. But Israel is now an unprecedented success. It has high-tech and biotech and it has satellites. Look at 1960, Botswana versus South Korea. Korea is a huge success and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u163	Mrs. Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u164	Botswana is much less so. I'm... so far, Mr. Chairman. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u165	Mrs. Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u166	I believe that Israel sometimes receives money, but apart from that, Mr Bosma spoke of pride. Is it not a little presumptuous to say that because of that Mr Bosma would like those countries to develop, that they do, and that there is no migration anymore, so that the simple sum of the PVV is right again? That's what I find presumptuous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u167	How much money didn't go to those countries? I just mentioned the number, 2,500 billion dollars. They could have solved a lot of problems of this kind, but unfortunately the developing countries also want to score very high on the list of corrupt countries at individual level. That's one of the reasons why it's not working. Israel has also received a lot of money; I agree with Mrs van Veldhoven. A lot of people have worked very hard for that and saved a lot of it and that is well spent. That is why Israel is the second most innovative country in the world and the situation in many developing countries in Africa, which received at least as much money, is just as disappointing as it was 40 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u168	I am pleased that Mr Bosma agrees that the money can be put into practice and can therefore also contribute to development. That is very nice at the moment in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u169	Yeah, and what's also nice is that you always get to interrupt three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u170	Good. Mr Bosma has finished his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A large number of countries undermine this theory of "first there was misery and then the magic wand of development aid and heaven." I just mentioned Rhodesia. South Africa used to be a first-world country, but that's where brown water comes from. Education there is the worst in the world and there are daily riots. Mozambique was finally demolished while the Netherlands gave a lot of development aid to that country. Look at Tanzania, too. Once there was "Tanzanitis" in this department; the Netherlands was the second sponsor of that country. Tanzania was the largest food exporter of Africa before the development aid was granted. When all that money had arrived from the Netherlands, the country was bankrupt and there was hunger. So that theory doesn't add up at all. This is also seen in other countries, such as Angola under the MPLA or Ethiopia. Mr Smaling has just mentioned growth rates, but the problems with the rule of law are getting bigger and bigger there. Look also at Eritrea and South Sudan, where we have brought EUR 500 million. Those are negative results. I also note that many genocidal organisations and countries have been paid with Dutch development money. Look at the ZANU in Rhodesia/Zimbabwe, look at the ANC, look at the MPLA in Angola, look at Mr. Machel's FRELIMO, look at the Swapo, who had torture camps and look at Mr. Nyerere, who has developed the country so badly that it has touched the begging staff. Is the Minister prepared to apologize for all those genocides financed by the Netherlands? 'Cause it's a big deal. There was a voluntary resignation of a cabinet because of Srebrenica. That was a genocide of 8,000 people, so quite small compared to other genocides funded by the Netherlands. I've been asking about the Clinton Foundation for months. I have received some answers today after the elections, but that may be a coincidence. The Clinton Foundation has just been a bribe organization. It's been in the news in America for months. If you wanted anything done by the State Department, you had to give money to the Clinton Foundation. Some of it they spent on charity, but it was also a way to arrange.I just call what weapons contracts and all kinds of other extremely shady things. That's what entire documentaries have been made about. Why should the Netherlands also give development aid to this? This went through another department, under Mrs Dijksma of Agriculture, but it is in the HGIS note and this minister is responsible for that. I find it very strange that apparently another ruler takes a little hobby in Africa and spends money on it. This minister hardly knows anything about it. I'm asking Chamber questions, and it turns out it's just been thrown into the big pile. The answer was: the Clinton Foundation has done all kinds of nice things, you know. But the question is still: why should we give money to the Clinton Foundation? If we're so eager to do nice things in Africa, we can do it ourselves. That Clinton Foundation has no added value at all. I'm gonna meet the minister a little bit. But Mrs Chelsea Clinton's wedding dress, which also came from the Clinton Foundation, is very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u172	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u173	I'll talk to you later. How'd it go with the ambassador in Kenya? He had told the truth at the time, development aid is a bottomless pit and he was waiting for a strong conversation. The fact that he had done so shot into the wrong throat, because it was a violation of the Omerta from the development aid lobby, I shall say. How'd that big talk go? Has he convinced the minister that he might have been right? Budget support for Mozambique has been discontinued. This seems to me to be a good development. Can the Minister explain once again what was the time when she found out it was wrong? Apparently, for years we have done something that the Minister has said at some point that we must stop. The latter is very good, but there must have been evidence for some time that budget support has been wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u174	Mr. Chairman. Between 1990 and 2015, extreme poverty decreased by 70%. Since 2000, there have been 43 million fewer children who cannot go to primary school. Where earlier in Southeast Asia compared to every 100 boys only 74 girls went to school, there are now 103. I'm gonna take a look at the health, too. The measles vaccinations saved about 15.6 million lives. The number of new HIV infections has decreased by 40%. Mother mortality at birth has been halved since 1990. western and southern countries have achieved a lot together. The argument of PVV and VVD of the bottomless well lacks any soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u175	Mrs Van Veldhoven comes up with all kinds of nice examples. I'm fine with that. She will then speak in the we-form. I find that strange, because we don't live there. Mrs Van Veldhoven has no reason whatsoever to support the fact that we, whoever we may be, have had some positive influence on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u176	You didn't listen very carefully, because I didn't say "we." I said: Western and southern countries have achieved a great deal together. I think this is just a fact. Now the PVV often denies facts, but I think this is just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u177	I won't deny that, because that's all happened. The question is why it is still necessary for the Western and Southern world, as Mrs Van Veldhoven describes it, to do so. Would it not be nice if the aid had contributed to a degree of independence and self-sufficiency which had made this aid superfluous?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u178	Sure, it would be very nice if we were already there. The fact is, we're not there yet. Do you have to pull your hands off it because it was supposed to be? Shouldn't you acknowledge what Western and southern countries have achieved together in recent years and start calling it a bottomless pit? That is not the solution, not for all those who are still living in poverty, nor for Henk and Ingrid in Africa who just want a roof over their heads and want their children to go to school. Letting people die is not the solution to problems with projects in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u179	Can Mrs Van Veldhoven then explain why, after 40 years of aid, there seems to have been insufficient development to prevent us from still saving?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u180	Forty years of help hasn't solved all the problems. In 40 years new problems have arisen; I am thinking of climate change. Forty years of help means mistakes have been made there and mistakes have been made by us. The large-scale emergency aid we have provided for many years, which has led to the loss of local farmers' markets, has also been part of the problem. It's also been learning by doing. That's what we have to do. That's where Mr. Taverne and I will find each other. Let us constantly try to get a better understanding of the effect of what we are doing. Let us try to use our money as effectively as possible, but let us not say that it is a bottomless pit, because we have not yet solved the problems with each other, while at the same time we are causing the western world in particular, when you look at the climate problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u181	Now Mrs Van Veldhoven compares measles and climate. If this is the result after more than 40 years of aid, how long does Mrs van Veldhoven think she will need to get the countries to be independent and able to do without help?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u182	For the climate problem, we will have to live in a completely different economy within 30 years. The key to solving the climate problem lies mainly in those countries which are still experiencing significant population growth and prosperity. Let us be happy about this and let us hope that we will never have to see images of starving children in the desert on television again. Let us hope so, but we still have less than 30 years for the solution. I think Mr Taverne is a little bit snuggled with that. He's smiling about it a little bit. In any case, we would like to make it possible, but that is the political conviction of D66 and apparently not of the VVD, which is perhaps more of the big cock that everyone in the world can live in a decent way. I would like to say a few words to Mr Taverne about migratory flows. I was just trying to discuss that point with Mr Bosma. A problem of a very different order is that we exhaust our earth. Our use of it is too intense. The time we leave for recovery is too short. Moreover, the use is only becoming more intensive. Developing countries are growing and are entitled to it. In fact, we have an interest in this, because it allows people in their own environment to make their living in a normal way. Then, perhaps, development aid will be less needed at some point. Let's hope it goes there. Let's hope we don't just give fish, but learn how to fish. That's how someone put it once. Henk and Ingrid there also want a roof over their heads, good care and safe food. However, if these countries first grow grey and then green, as we did, it is too little, too late with irreversible consequences for our environment. The agreed global targets must be translated into policies. Not everything the government writes about that is equally clear. For example, the Minister writes: "A lot is going on with all actors, including under terms such as'socially responsible' and 'impact'." But why is a national implementation programme therefore of little added value? The letter can gain some clarity, I would like to illustrate this. This also applies to the budget. The budget does not provide sufficient evidence of which article contributes to which global objective or sub-objective. It would be nice if we could improve that. Is there even an overview of which Dutch government contributes to what goal at home and abroad and how? I also have a question about spending the ever-growing budget on decentralised energy. I think that's a very important part. Why is this being spent virtually multilaterally against the trend of increasing cooperation with local organisations? The Netherlands' overall starting position for achieving the global goals is good, but we are lagging behind in terms of sustainable development. In that case, it is really strange that we intend to leave the UN Organisation for Industrial Development (UNIDO) because it has reformed itself and is striving for sustainable growth. Why are we on the sidelines instead of contributing to it? Or take the World Resources Institute (WRI), a think tank focused on circular economy and raw materials. It is suddenly uncertain whether this institute still retains Dutch support. With the mouth, sustainability is confessed, but what do we do to support organisations that make it their spearhead? If it is not UNIDO or the WRI, then who is and with what result? The challenge we face can be met. But then we need money, good examples and new technology. We also have a lot to offer. We have plenty of good examples in the Netherlands. Whether it's energy, water and agriculture or about viability and digitalisation, Dutch entrepreneurs are innovative and can contribute to sustainable development that allows people to stand on their own feet. In order to show what beauty is produced, I have produced a small Green Paper. I will be happy to offer this to the Minister in a moment and also make it available to colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u183	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u184	I enjoyed the passionate speech at the beginning. Especially during the interrupting debates I was thinking: womanpower! I'm very happy there. I have a question about the free trade questions. I am amazed at the fact that D66 is in favour of free trade agreements, even though we know, from the past, how disastrously free trade agreements with South American countries in particular have been drawn up for the farmers there, the Mexicans and the other farmers. How can it be that, while D66 has the heart for empowering especially farmers in developing countries, D66 stands for free trade agreements such as TTIP and CETA? I can't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u185	The last time I looked at TTIP, it was a transatlantic trade agreement and therefore had relatively few direct effects on farmers in Africa. What is very important is, of course, that we ensure that those farmers too, who share that with Mrs Thieme and I, can develop the quality and have access to our markets that is necessary for them to develop their economy. That is why, as the European Union, we have long had preferential trade agreements with many countries. So I think that when you talk about free trade, you also talk about the opportunities of those countries to develop their economies and to provide for their own existence. We must, of course, ensure that we do not wipe those countries off the board with our lead. That is why I am also in favour of the kind of preferential trade agreements we have, because it makes it easier for those countries to sell their products on the European market as well. I also think it is good that we are helping to bring the Dutch knowledge we have about how to produce high quality products to those countries in a good way. In doing so, we must be careful not to encourage the cultivation of tomatoes in the Sahara, because we will shoot ourselves in the foot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u186	On the contrary, we see that the developing countries are only raw materials suppliers and not end-products suppliers. This is a major problem and free trade agreements make it even more difficult to access the market. Does Mrs Van Veldhoven not agree with me that free trade agreements such as TTIP and CETA are precisely in the hands of multinationals, even though they already hold 90% of food supplies? Instead, it should, of course, offer opportunities to all those small farmers who are ultimately responsible for potatoes, tomatoes and all the other important primary products with which we can combat poverty and hunger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u187	I think that Mrs Thieme and I can find each other very well on the fact that it is important that we also give those entrepreneurs in those countries a good basis for their existence and that we should give them a good basis to feed their people. However, I do not share Mrs Thieme's conclusion, namely that free trade, by definition, makes this worse. Free trade makes the cake bigger for everyone, if it happens in a good way. That also means that you may impose conditions on free trade. This also means that you need to think carefully about preferential trade agreements and that you are giving additional benefits to countries that are lagging behind and that you are making it easier for them to make the money on our European market that they can also keep their economies running. As far as D66 is concerned, free trade has a role to play, but of course you have to deal with it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u188	Mrs Van Veldhoven finishes her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u189	Mr. Chairman. Money will come as far as D66 is concerned. In the EZ budget, D66 announced an innovation fund of EUR 1 billion. In doing so, we want to free up resources to tackle societal challenges. As far as we are concerned, one of these important societal challenges is sustainable growth in developing countries. Then it is not just the good examples of today, but we are also creating tomorrow's. In addition, it would be nice to give small incubators, start-ups and SMEs a chance to market their sustainable products in emerging economies. Embassies have some money for this kind of promotional activities, but I understand that they are very much in favour of me being corrected by the Minister if that is not the case, which should not be used outside developing cooperation countries for sustainability. It is particularly important in those countries where we are no longer engaged in development cooperation, but where growth is booming, that we ensure that this growth is sustainable growth. These are also markets that are ready for the kind of products we can offer. This will enable us to contribute to sustainable and green growth there and to development here. Is the Minister prepared to extend the terms and conditions and to consider whether additional money can be added to the budget? I'll be on the trade missions. In the opinion of D66, these can be more effective when we consider whether we can allow companies to present themselves together as a kind of overall solution. By this I mean not only dredging the Emirates, but also reusing that land, providing knowledge and technology for sustainable crops, putting windmills on that dike and installing solar panels. In short, make it a complete package with which we can show what the Netherlands offers for solutions. Then we will not only make a difference to other countries, but we will also bring green growth. Does the Minister intend to promote such an approach to trade missions? I now come to the world goods agreement. That is what we need to achieve the goals of the climate agreement. This is really about solutions that can contribute to green growth. The Minister said that he would insist on an early conclusion. I understand that this will happen in December, but when will it enter into force? I'm gonna close with a whole different climate. It has also been raised by a number of colleagues: the attitude towards women and girls. Let me say as a personal note that I too would have liked Hillary Clinton today to show girls around the world that that office is also available to women. It still is; we're just gonna wait a few more years for it. At the beginning of this year I made a motion with Mr Van Laar (33625, nr. 207) EUR 10 million for southern women's organisations, but I am surprised to read that this is again falling against a mandate of 13 million. How are we going to solve this, I ask the Minister. In addition, it remains important to focus on strong local NGOs. Their activities are essential for peace-building, development of the rule of law and equal rights for men and women. It is not always easy to understand projects, but money is often made available on a project basis. But, so I ask the Minister, where do you pay so quickly to arrange safe houses for, or secure phones for communication? Following the disappearance of FLOW subsidies, there is a risk of a gap here. How do we ensure, I ask the Minister, that adequate money is available for such basic services for the personal safety of women, but sometimes also for men who really stick out their necks? I would like to use my last minute to thank this Minister very much for his pleasant cooperation. I hope that we will be able to continue it in the rest of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mr. Chairman. Millions of people, 60 million and more, are fleeing war and terrorism. The need is higher than ever. It used to be a long way away, but we have known since the last two years, with the stories of people who come to the Netherlands and with whom we come here, that this need can also come very close. The Christian Union wants to work for the poorest, first of all by helping people in acute need with medical care, food and shelter in the crisis areas, but also by structurally addressing the root causes of migration. That is why the Christian Union wants to return to the internationally accepted standard of 0.7% for development cooperation. However, the budget we are discussing today is making a reverse move. There's less money going to emergency aid. There will be more than 1 billion cuts next year on the poorest. We are not going down to 0.7%, but we are going down to 0.46% in the years to come. I'll sum up the cuts. Next year, in 2017, we will end up with a structural cut of 1 billion. The Netherlands is the largest recipient of its own development aid because we are receiving the first-year asylum seekers here in the Netherlands, a quarter of the ODA funds now. The cash slide from the future provides money for now but also mortgages the future and future budgets until 2020: 1.2 billion has been taken away by this minister, a financial crater for the coming government period. The budget for civil society is falling significantly. At the same time, we are seeing an increase in business and export financing. The emergency aid budget is falling compared to previous years. On top of that, we have had the various reports on development cooperation. The IOB strongly condemns the cuts made in recent years. This is about Rutte I, but we are already seeing how these cuts are disastrous for the countries to which we have had to say goodbye because programmes have stopped halfway through. The AIV considers the austerity to be at odds with the growing importance of international cooperation. The Court of Auditors, as we have heard, is critical of the cash slides from the future and of the effectiveness of business tools. The Christian Union Group doubts whether it should support this minister's budget if such a major attack is made on the budget and direct aid to the poorest. Luckily, the inflow rates have been reduced. That might give some room for the Navy's note. It is therefore very important for us that these funds should remain in this minister's budget and that they should be made 100% available for official development cooperation aid. Can the Minister respond to that? The increase in the emergency budget is a second important condition for us to be able to support the budget. We have just received a letter from this Minister on emergency aid, but we are seeing another cash slide on this point, this time from 2016 to 2017, because apparently there is an under-utilisation of 80 million. I'm fine with the release of those funds next year, but that's not extra money. There are huge shortages of food, medical aid and so on. We receive almost daily reports from NGOs, including NGOs whose employees work at refugee camps in Syria themselves, but also in the surrounding countries, such as Jordan. We really need to free up extra money. We've done the same thing in the past. At that time, together with other constructive opposition parties, we made 570 million extra available, but that pot is virtually empty. Does the Minister keep that emergency fund, including the Dutch Relief Alliance, up to date? This has now been proved, as the Minister himself has said. The system is new and functioning well. Organisations are forced to cooperate and coordinate programmes. But that pot's empty now. The Chamber has previously adopted a motion on this subject, but we have not yet seen any implementation of that fund for next year. Can the Minister guarantee that this pot will be filled with this year's freeing-up funds from this year's budget reserve of asylum? I am considering tabling a motion on that point. I come to the 25% standard for civil society. The Minister keeps saying that she does not send on channels, but in the meantime we can see that extra money is added to the business community. The Christian Union is committed to spending one third of the development budget through private organisations, as they come into the pockets of poverty in partner countries. In the last budget, too, this 25% is not achieved by this minister, while the motion for a resolution was adopted to set that 25% as an objective. Is the Minister prepared to change this, possibly again with the funds released from the Navy's note? Another theme is child labour. Worldwide, 168 million children have to work in order to earn income for themselves and for their parents. The Christian Union actively wants to combat child labour. I have worked with other colleagues, in particular Mr Van Laar, for this in recent years. We have to let those kids go to school. The Minister is convinced of this and has financed several programmes. Once again, I bring the Stop Child Labour platform to the attention of this minister, precisely because it is such a beautiful coalition. The Minister is enthusiastic about the successful work done by these organisations to organise child labour-free zones. Is the Minister prepared to make money available for this again next year? I come to fair trade. Too often there are violations of fundamental human rights in international production chains, such as child labour in Turkey. I went back there last summer and I saw kids working there. These were not only children 15 years old, but sometimes also 9, 10 or 11 years old. Their parents can't afford to let them go to school, and that's why those kids have to work to have shelter and to be able to support themselves. Think also of the forced labour of underage girls in the textile industry in India and of the dangerous work taking place in the mines of Mali. The Christian Union therefore wants a legal minimum for fair trade. We have also made several proposals for this in recent years, for example the proposal for legally binding transparency by companies in the proven risk sectors, such as natural stone, clothing, coffee, cocoa, precious metals, tropical fruit and so on. We held the motion on this because there was no support for it at the time. Companies at risk of violating human rights must identify those human rights violations by means of statutory due diligence, or let them know that human rights are respected. America has already adopted a beautiful Modern Slavery Act and the English have a similar Modern Slavery Act. Will the Minister look at them to see whether we can develop a kind of stick behind the door alongside the covenants and organise legislation to free the production chains from child labour, and to ensure that these production chains will now respect human rights? For an independent supervisor, we've filed motions before. Unfortunately, they didn't make it, but I insist that it's crucial. You can make agreements and paper is patient, but if there is no independent supervisor who can actually impose sanctions, it remains a paper tiger. We only want to allow certified products within the risk sectors. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we are starting with those high-risk sectors where the problems are greatest and where ISEAL certification is already applied, such as the coffee, tea and tropical fruit sectors. I would like to hear if the Minister is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u191	Remember your time, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u192	I can see I'm running out of time. I would like to draw attention to Qatar and to the more than 1,000 deaths due to the poor working conditions. The case is now under trial. What is the Netherlands doing to pressure Qatar and FIFA to improve human rights? Finally, I agree with what Mr Van Laar said about Syria and the position of women in Rojava, but also the position of minorities. They're having a really hard time. What can the Minister do? Previously, a motion was adopted in this Chamber to support Northern Syria and these minorities. What can the Minister do for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u193	I am pleased that Mr Voordewind has devoted much of his speaking time to child labour. Children shouldn't be in sweatshops or anything like that either. Yet at some point you come to an area where you wonder if you really need to get involved in this. I am thinking in particular of children who often look after goats or cows in Africa. That's part of a lifestyle that's quite normal in some regions. Does Mr Voordewind also want to ban it or does he see a grey area emerging from which we must stay away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u194	I believe that Mr Smaling and I have the same interest, namely that the children do not remain in that poverty cycle and that all children have the right to go to school. If they also do some work around the house, that's fine. You will not hear me about this, but I have been back to Turkey, where 40% of the labour force in the agricultural sector appear to be children. Families take their children from plantation to plantation for six months. We must also appeal to these parents, and there are no easy solutions; I admit that immediately. But children are forced not to go to school for six months. If we seriously want to do something structurally, when we are talking about the effects of development cooperation...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u195	Mr. Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u196	One last sentence, Mr. Chairman. We know that education can really bring about a turning point in the poverty and misery of many families. So we have to invest in getting these children out of work and into school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u197	I fully agree with this sentimentally, but thinking about it, not only now but also recently, I still have to ask what point you are going to impose too much on us, while the work of those children or adolescents within a particular culture is a fairly fixed part of the way some parts of society have been operating for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u198	I also see that it is difficult to send inspectors to places all over rural Africa, but we can of course appeal to our companies here in the Netherlands to the fact that child labour is still taking place, possibly even for our clothing. We just don't know that, because companies are still not forced to open up. Now and then, NGOs do research on that. We have heard it again recently from Zara and another company. Zara's coming into the clothing agreement now, but it did happen. What principles and instruments do we have here in the western world and in the Netherlands, preferably at European level, in order to tackle at least the Dutch companies and the international companies that are based in the Netherlands? That's nothing new. The ILO (International Labour Organization) has had these criteria for years. It's not a noncommittal point anymore. With these companies we want to see how to combat child labour. Some companies ask for legislation themselves, so that they have a level playing field and know where they stand. Then they can also present themselves to consumers as a company offering child labour-free products, so that people with clean clothes, food and so on can buy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u199	Mr. Chairman. Dutch development cooperation goes through a dark period. The official development cooperation budget, the ODA budget, has fallen dramatically in 2017. Even if you count all posts that do not contribute to development, you will not exceed 0.56% of GDP, the lowest point since 1973 and well below the agreed 0.7%. In 2019, according to the multiannual forecast, we will continue to decrease to 0.46%. Meanwhile, the Minister has also left a toxic legacy by solving acute problems in 2015 by taking an advance on the future budget up to 2020. The next minister will have a very, very hard time getting development cooperation back on track. This minister has joined the course of VVD'er Zijlstra. Within the Netherlands we have standards and values, outside of which we mainly have interests. The Minister has sacrificed the aid budget but dragged in the signature of CETA. Fantastic. A treaty that is good for wallet and prestige, but at the expense of regulation and equality of law. The ICS, which she cherished, the Investment Court System, for legal proceedings is new in CETA. However, there is already the ISDS that is exchanged in a number of other treaties for this purpose. I haven't heard that the minister's gonna be working on it tomorrow to change that, but who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u200	I would like to come back to the previous point, that of the budget. The agreed cuts are also a stone on our stomachs. I give everyone their own gloom, but aren't you a little short for us all? We are still the sixth donor of Europe and the eighth donor of the world, in absolute terms, not even in terms of part of our national product. We're still generous. We can run very nice programs of that. Are you not a little short of us when you say that it is nothing anymore, that everything has disappeared and that it has never been as gloomy as it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u201	I think it's a bit of a weird hooray story from Mr. Van Laar. I am giving loud figures here that have been agreed with the approval of the PvdA in this way and now lie on the stomach like a stone. Mr Van Laar should have realised earlier that these things lie on the stomach like a stone. I think that, in the coming years, it will be a very big problem for the Labour Party, too, if it is going to grow up, to get that on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u202	In recent years, that 1.5 billion has been added. Mr Grashoff did not mention that. This has simply been done from the general point of view. Of course we're gonna fight that formation. I have said many times in recent years: the budget is for the VVD and the realization for the Labour Party. I'll sign for that. So we're gonna see that. But don't be short of what's left. We can still do a lot of good things with that. I hope you have some ideas for that, but we might hear about that. There is still a lot left to be ashamed of and to be proud of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u203	If we halve it, there's still a lot left to do nice things. Of course you can do nice things with the money you have. Fantastic. I hope that will happen, and part of it will. However, politically speaking, it is of course a strange story by Mr Van Laar. Mr. Chairman. I just need to get back on track. My group would still have some sympathy for the Minister if the ISDS were to disappear first and as soon as possible, for example from the Energy Charter Treaty. That would be a step in the right direction. However, the Minister writes that we should first adopt CETA. As far as we are concerned, CETA is not being adopted at all. So I also wonder whether the Minister is still entitled to the Energy Charter Treaty. Does the Minister understand that my group does not consider the motion we have tabled on this matter to be null and void? In my view, two motions on climate have also been adopted. I would like to hear from the Minister how she can implement that, or why she ignores it. A number of clear sustainable development goals have been established internationally. At the same time, it is fashionable to link other goals to development aid. At the Ministry here, trade and development cooperation go hand in hand. You'd think this would bite, but we don't hear the minister about that. Dutch companies are increasingly benefiting from development cooperation money, thanks to the aid and trade agenda. The budget for sustainable trade and investment increased from 4% in 2010 to 8% in 2017. That percentage is rising further. Dutch companies receive most of this. Whether it combats poverty or benefits other development goals is completely unclear. That's not gonna be tracked. Another example of miraculous ulterior motives is the EU's migration deals with countries from which much migration comes. It is not the improvement of conditions for refugees that is central to this, but the blocking of the escape route. This is made a precondition for the European Union's help. Is the Minister really cooperating? How does she feel about that? Does it intend to extend this further to other parts of the development aid ultimately co-financed by the Netherlands? Should it be the case that development aid has some kind of conditions for combating migration? I would think that is the most cynical development that is conceivable. The quiz question is, of course, which country is receiving the most development cooperation money? The answer is: the Netherlands. This is mainly due to the budget for the reception of asylum seekers. Of course, it has to be done in a decent way. The cabinet has also made additional funds available for this purpose. This has also, to a large extent, been at the expense of the development cooperation budget. That hits that budget hard. A record of 23% of the OS budget goes to first-year reception of asylum seekers. Isn't it true that the Minister with trade policy, development cooperation policy and with the budgets falling here is actually running a VVD agenda hard? And isn't it true that the moment when the minister implementing the VVD agenda moves Mr Taverne's VVD agenda further towards that of the PVV, because of course you can never do little about development cooperation? I think it's a disgrace. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance intends to vote against the budget for development cooperation. There's one bright spot that could tempt us to do things differently. It is Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, which I would like to have co-signed. It proposes adding a substantial but modest amount of 187 million to the OS budget at the expense of an expat scheme that gives huge tax benefits to people who earn above the beaming standard. Speaking of ineffectively spent funds, I say to Mr Taverne. If we were to adopt that amendment, I would suggest to my group that the OS budget should be aligned once more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u204	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this cabinet period, in 2012, the cabinet promised to change course on OS. Less budget, i.e. 750 million, and more. Seems like a dream. Not aid, but trade would play an increasingly important role. For us, it was crucial that the Minister said that the poorest would simply continue to be helped. If we take stock after four years, we will question it. I'm not negative, but I'm excited about the combination of help and trade. We went to work in Ethiopia. There's a couple of students in the public gallery who came along. They also made an evaluation. I've taken advantage of that for this contribution. It was a wonderful visit. There's a lot of companies out there. You can see they're closing chains, helping all kinds of groups to work and creating jobs. As far as that is concerned, I would like to encourage the Minister. I would like to ask whether she could not further facilitate that. We saw that addressing this problem in its entirety helps enormously, if an embassy does so, business does so and an NGO does so, together with local partners. Are they not still successful in making it more effective? I come to the most important point of my contribution: the poorest. We would like to have more insight into whether they really are achieved and if so, in what way. That the combination of aid and trade can work is not a question for me. However, there are examples that show very clearly that trade can also work undermining: depletion of resources, exploitation of local workers or small farmers who are driven away for a factory or a dam. That is precisely why I am calling for an integrated approach. If you take an integrated approach, you can prevent it and make sure that those people in the local environment are helped. That requires targeted policies. In addition to what I just asked, I would like to make three suggestions to the Minister. Ensure very clear trade aid conditions and consistent compliance with them. I hear the Minister say again tomorrow: yes, but we do. However, in practice, I find that this is not always the case in such a country. Sometimes it can't be, because it's customization. Yeah, I get that. But is the ambition of all the people in the field who are working on it that you have to go to the hole to do it to the maximum? Is that going to be checked, too? Then how does the Minister monitor that? I assume she wants to know that, too. Make sure the auxiliary agenda doesn't go under. This calls for a focus on aid and trade policy, in which achieving the poorest is a priority. Can the Minister indicate to what extent there is sufficient attention in current policy to the poorest and most vulnerable? I am thinking in particular of people with disabilities, who are having a particularly difficult time in these countries. You'll only be poor and have a limit. Usually you're really in the corner where the punches are. When I look at the documents, not only the budget, but also the annual report, in which we see the effectiveness, I cannot get a very clear picture of what instruments you reach which groups. You're gonna need a budget for it. In that respect, I am concerned about 2017. Hence the amendment that Mr Grashoff has already put forward. We are talking about the poorest, groups that need our money very much. Not for nothing has there been a wonderful combination of the SGP, the Party for Animals and GroenLinks, which indicates how broad that is actually shared. Fortunately, these combinations do occur often, but it does indicate something. Given the coverage, the limitation of the expat regime to the beaming standard, and given the minister's background, I expect to see some positive texts tomorrow. For the minister, of course, it's win-win. It is a restriction on the expat regime, because people above the beaming standard do not need any more tax benefits, and it also goes to development cooperation. I assume that only the VVD and the PVV will oppose it and the rest will support it. I can only imagine the Minister saying to the Chamber: this is beautiful; it is good that you have done so. Finally. We have had a whole debate on effectiveness, but I see a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u205	I propose that Mr Dijkgraaf finish his speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u206	I'm getting to a whole different subject now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u207	Then briefly, because the clock is ticking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u208	There is an amendment for 180 million. We must be able to ask a question about this. In my opinion, Mr Dijkgraaf is also the financial spokesman for his group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u209	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u210	I understand from the Bureau of Legislation and also from the financial spokesman of my own group that it is not customary to raise taxes to spend, however much I want it to be. In budgetary negotiations and formations you can make that kind of big hits. We do so in our election programme, but Mr Dijkgraaf is now proposing it in the budget. That's kind of a thing, it turns out. Can Mr Dijkgraaf tell us more about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u211	Yes. In recent years, I have noticed that the Minister of Finance has always said that it cannot be done, unless you are at a negotiating table and something really needs to be done, because then it can be done. There's nothing against state law. There's usance. It is indeed not in line with what we normally do. But if you say it's important enough, then it's fine. We will hear from both rulers, both of whom belong to the same party, how important they consider this subject to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u212	I understand. I also sympathise with Mr Dijkgraaf. I also said that he should make the same proposal. In fact, we want to get rid of the whole scheme in our electoral programme. If you do this, of course, the temptation is to increase the tax by 0.000001% each time you need a million, but at some point you will be in a black area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u213	That's why you need to look wisely where you do and where you don't. Here you are talking about an arrangement in which people up to the Balkenendenorm, up to €180,000, already benefit heavily from 30% less taxes they pay. We are talking specifically about CEOs from large companies that have 0.5 million, which are going to get a little less tax advantage and simply pay the tax that you and I are paying. That seems reasonable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u214	It was the financial spokesman of the PvdA itself who said more than six months ago that he absolutely wanted to get rid of these expat arrangements. That's most amazing. Does Mr Dijkgraaf agree with me that we have had a similar problem with Education, where Minister Bussemaker was going to pull something out of the tax system where taxes suddenly became part of the expenditure framework? Maybe precedents too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u215	My experience is that it is a very good argument for the cabinet to put an amendment in a negative light, and that sometimes the cabinet uses it itself, and sometimes not, and that sometimes the Chamber allows it. It's just who's filing it. Should the Minister of Finance bring it up, this Minister may be able to include it in the dialogue, although I know the Minister of Finance and know what he will say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u216	Sometimes I agree wholeheartedly with Mr Dijkgraaf!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u217	Yeah, those are good times!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u218	I thought I'd see that coming. Mr Dijkgraaf finishes his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u219	We have had a debate on effectiveness. For me, the question is whether the OS policy is effective is a nonsensical question. I know the answer to that in advance. That can never be completely effective. It will always be about the question of which part is effective and whether that is in good proportion to the budget that you are putting out for it. The fact that you achieve 100% effectiveness in these countries is an illusion. In this world, that's impossible. It is a pity that there is simply too little insight into the budget and the annual report. That is why I believe we have this discussion. Then you have to improve the insight and determine what works and what doesn't. If you know that, you have to learn from the mistakes you make and from the things that don't work. I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that. In recent years, the sharp debate we are currently having on development cooperation is partly due to the fact that in the past all these VVD cabinets have not actually taken care of that, so let's finally get it right. I think we're on the right track in the combination of the Ministry and the Chamber. Let's actually do that, that is, not just mapping it, but actually learning it. When I look at the literature, I do see evidence of effective projects. I would like to draw attention to the IOB report, which has identified many projects. I would also point to the CPB, which is now simply passing on the fact that it has an effect on the economy. I can assure you that it will have to be proven if the CPB is finally going to record it. Because it never takes unproven things. For me, however, the best proof is the farmer's son in Ethiopia, who was once only allowed to help his father and now receive education because his father was helped by both the embassy and an NGO and a company, which gave him a few small talk, earned a minimum wage and could send his son not only to work but also to education. Talking to a kid like that makes a world of difference for a kid like that whether we're gonna help him, yes or no. We are happy to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u220	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a trading country. Because of our favorable location and our merchant spirit we have become a seafaring nation of merchants. We make a lot of money far beyond our own borders. Our ancestors discovered new seas, islands and continents. That is the VOC mentality that we see with mixed feelings. But wealth has a price. We get raw materials from other countries. Then peppers and nutmeg and silk, produced by people who were bought off with beads and mirrors, if they were lucky. People with less luck were sold themselves and enslaved. Not only people elsewhere paid the price for our wealth. The natural environment degraded to a production factor. Forests were planted, lakes polluted, animal and plant species disappeared and the dodo, for example, did not survive the introduction to the Dutch. Worldwide raids have made us rich. The Netherlands is still a trading country. Trade still makes us one of the most prosperous countries in the world. We still account neither ourselves nor others for the sources of that wealth, let alone for the costs and destruction associated with it. After China, the Netherlands is the largest importer of soya worldwide. Soy that was grown in places where tropical rainforest stood, which disappears at a furious rate. Forests that store CO, make oxygen, keep weather patterns stable and provide food and medicine for the people there, they're gone. Our trade spirit transforms pristine rainforests into a soy desert, where no animal can survive and where people living next door become sick from the use of agricultural poison. From the VOC side of the world, Indonesia, we import palm oil on a large scale, for our shampoos, biscuits, ice creams and bread. In short, in about everything we consume, palm oil, often completely superfluous. The consequences are forest fires. A lot of forests are being burned to set up palm oil plantations. This has a disastrous effect on the species that live there and on the people who live there and who are being chased away. The forest fires cause as many greenhouse gases as the entire economy of the United States. Africa is also still the world's supermarket, where the Netherlands is hard at hoarding cheap raw materials. We used to take slaves from there to work on the plantations. Now we let the slaves there think about the chocolate industry and allow people to be forced to work in life-threatening mines without being paid for, and allow people to be expelled from the country of their ancestors to go and produce flowers or grain for Dutch imports, something that feeds our prosperity but leaves the people there with the consequences. The Netherlands is a trading country. Our actions make us rich, but it makes the world as a whole poorer. I ask the Minister what she is going to do about the forms of predatory and exhaustion that are taking place in the wake of our trade missions. I ask the Minister to acknowledge that our wealth is mainly on the weakest shoulders the world knows. We're taking stock of two Rutte Cabinets. Two cabinets that have made it a sport to cut back on the world. We don't have half a percent of our national income on development cooperation. Development cooperation has become a charity, a must we want to spend as little money on as possible. Moreover, a large proportion of this small half-percent is intended for our trade. Trade which, in order to be subsidised, does not even have to meet sustainability criteria, criteria which at least mitigate the negative effects of that trade. Of this half percent, a large and even growing proportion in our country is also being spent on accommodating people who had no future beyond our borders. Wouldn't it have made more sense to invest in education, food, water, in agriculture there? In the emancipation of the people who, beyond our borders, are already paying the price for our prosperity in the short term? The Netherlands is a trading country. That is why this cabinet is fully committed to concluding trade deals with other countries. Deals that make the rich richer. Trade growth is good, because it makes our economy grow. That's the Holy Grail. But we know that the planet doesn't grow along. Raw materials are exhausted and the Earth is warming up by our one-sided focus on growth, while it doesn't bring any more happiness or well-being. It's causing a massive destruction of our environment. The earth is the great loser of its commitment to free trade, but certainly not the only one. The ordinary people are the victims of that, too. Those who cannot compete in business, in the race of scaling up and reducing costs in this one-sided global economy, are falling. I am referring in particular to family farms, farmers, mostly women in third world countries. The farmers in the Netherlands are also the victims of this. They will be affected by the import of hormone meat, puffy chicken and battery eggs through free trade agreements, for example with America and Canada. The association agreement with Ukraine and a trade deal with Canada and perhaps also with the US mean the death blow for family farming and sustainable agriculture. Only the largest milk and meat factories and multinationals benefit from this. In the negotiations with Japan, with which there is yet another free trade agreement, the Netherlands is not about ending the cruel whale and dolphin hunt in that country, but about selling Dutch veal and animal feed, while we know that meat is the most environmentally damaging part of the food package. TiSA, a trade deal aimed at services, threatens the public interests of all of us in the field of education, care and transport in Europe, for private profits. This cabinet is always committed to concluding agreements as quickly as possible and as far as possible, and then behind closed doors. The promised transparency in the negotiations is being slimmed down. Yeah, after. I know that this minister stands for transparency, but in the meantime she agrees with the agreements concluded behind closed doors. We only get some insight afterwards, so only after the European Commission has signed up so that no letter can be changed to the agreement. We have seen this with CETA, for which the brave Walls of Belgium tried to stop. That is also what we are going to see with TiSA, the service-free trade agreement. According to the Cabinet, that agreement is due to be concluded this year, while the Chamber and the public have no idea what is being discussed and what the consequences will be for our employment and for our security of services of general interest. That's not okay, and we're not gonna do that. We do not agree with this and we will continue to oppose it, just like a growing number of Dutch citizens, as was shown by the convincing 'no' to the Ukraine Treaty. The Netherlands is a trading country. We will have to have a fundamental debate on the consequences for others in the world. Who are the winners and above all who are the losers of this trade? The Minister spoke earlier about a reset in the negotiations on free trade agreements. I challenge her in the last few months of this cabinet to do so and to initiate this necessary fundamental debate on the effects of free trade on people, animals, nature and the environment. Is it desirable for the Netherlands to import or export more bio-industrial meat? Or are we protecting our farmers by imposing the same requirements on the import products that are imposed on our domestic products? Is it desirable for Europe to open its borders to tar sand oil from Canada, the most destructive form of fossil energy that exists and which, thanks to a free trade agreement such as CETA, simply enters the European market? Or are we fully committed to renewable energy from our own wind, sun and water? Is it desirable for our import tariffs to ensure that Africa remains a raw material supplier, because raw materials have much lower import rates than processed products? Or are we helping Africa stand on its own feet by giving them a fair chance to develop their own agricultural economy? Is it desirable for the Netherlands to allow large companies to pay taxes in developing countries through a letterbox company on the Zuidas in Amsterdam? Or do we bet on a fair payment of taxes? And is it desirable that our concern, our education, our food supply, should all human rights be increasingly in the hands of a handful of multinationals? Or do we say: that is what we are all about; that right remains with farmers, with consumers? Are we abandoning market forces in health care and education, precisely because we believe that these basic provisions should remain? Is it desirable for companies to have the right to attack democratically established rules through private courts and billions of claims? The free trade agreements give them that right. Or can we still rely on our own democracy and our rule of law? These are questions that need to be answered and which we in this Chamber are far too little thinking about. We are always simply talking about the budget and the figures that should or should not be raised or lowered behind the decimal place. As politicians, we must have a fundamental debate on the direction we want to take with this country. Do we want to trade at the expense of other countries? Or should we not focus much more on regional production that is sustainable? I think it would be a blessing for the world to use it instead of trying to earn a few dimes at the expense of animals, farmers and the environment through our aggressive export strategy. I would very much like to discuss this with the Minister, and I believe that we will do so tomorrow. Furthermore, I believe that the bio-industry needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-7.u221	Of course, that sentence came after it. That brings us to the end of the Court's first term of office on this budget. Tomorrow night, we'll move on and the Minister will answer. I would like to thank the Minister and his colleagues.
