ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u1	I would like to welcome the Groningen people to the gallery and the Minister for Economic Affairs. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven. Speaking time is set at eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr. Chairman. It has been over three years since the earthquake in Huizinge took place. We are now on to many reports, decisions and debates. In the discussions during our work visit last in Groningen I noticed that Groningen is looking for peace and for results. Rest with a dot on the horizon as regards the gas extraction instead of the right having to intervene each time to turn the crane further shut. Rest by reports whose independence is not always disputed. Rest through perspective for people with a house underwater. And Groningen is also waiting for results for houses, schools and dikes that are finally really and visibly strengthened. Groningen is waiting for results for a damage treatment that is smooth, smooth and smooth. I have more comments on these points. Step by step the gas extraction has gone down lately, but that was unfortunately not very heartfelt, even in the perspective of the Groningers. The judge had to use it twice to get the minister to reduce gas extraction. This year, the Council of State made a provisional provision. Gas extraction shall not exceed 27 bcm, the quantity which may be required in an average year. By the summer, the Minister will come back with a new gas decision. I'd like to ask him not to let it hang on to the judge again, please. Can the Minister promise that gas extraction will not be filled up to 27 bcm this year if it remains for the rest of this "winter" 12°C? Then I come to energy saving. The amount of gas we need to heat the houses and to cook them up is always an obstacle to bringing that gas extraction further down. So we are not just talking about the crane; we should also talk about the question. This security of supply is therefore not an established fact. The less gas we use, the less we have to pump up. So the more energy we save, the more the gas can close. That's what the last letters say. In this context, it is worrying that the energy agreement, which has an important energy saving objective, is far from achieving these goals. According to the last report, we're only about half the agreed 100 petajoule. Realising this 100 petajoule is particularly important in the context of this gas debate. That is why I have the following question for the Minister. When will he come up with his plans to speed up that energy saving rate? Then I come to the issue of independent research. For the investigation of the earthquakes, we are still largely dependent on a party that also has an interest, namely the NAM. We keep getting reports from organizations about reports from other organisations. There are sometimes differences between the results of those reports. That can be smarter and with more confidence. Therefore, the Research Council for Security has recommended the establishment of a long-term research programme, involving structural, integral, but also independent research. How is the Minister going to realize that? I think he agrees with me that only research in which there is real confidence will give the necessary rest and acceptance of the conclusions drawn. Then I come to the issues of reinforcement and damage. The damage caused by mining activities must always be compensated. Then it doesn't really matter whether it's caused by soil movement or soil decline and whether there's earthquake damage or damage to setting due to soil movement? It does not matter whether this damage occurs within the contour map we have established. Damage caused by mining activities is simply damage that has to be compensated. Can the Minister confirm that? Is he going to anchor this in the new Mining Act? Strengthening and winning gas are of course two "buttons" that both have an effect on the risk in the area. The reinforcement programme should start as soon as possible to get the red spots, where there is still a big risk, out of the cards as soon as possible. Only the combination of a sturdy house and an adapted level of gas extraction gives a guarantee for a safe future. We still lack a lot of data, but of course we can't wait. So we're really gonna have to get to work. The estimates of the NAM of the number of houses that need to be strengthened may be rather rosy. The NAM speaks of over 3,000 houses, but the minister himself says that this number could be a factor 3 higher. Then you arrive at a strengthening rate of about 2,000 houses per year. Houses can also mean other buildings, but that's a huge number. Is that a realistic number? How's the minister gonna make it? Then I get to the point of the schools. Underneath the buildings I was just talking about, there are also schools. In Groningen, many schools need to be strengthened, so that every child can just go to school safely and parents no longer worry about it. During the work visit we also went to Bedum, where the school sits in a beautiful characteristic building. The school wants to go through that community, but there are really a number of problems. We can solve those problems. It is precisely through the strengthening programme that must be implemented that we can also prepare schools for the future. Whether it's about shrinkage or sustainability, we can make the schools future-proof. This means, however, that these schools are now faced with investments that they have not yet spared. They're not there yet, but that can't mean that a school like Bedum, with a beautiful characteristic building in the center, will be empty and a new building outside the village will be built because it's cheaper and the school doesn't have the money to solve it at the moment? I would very much like the Minister and the National Coordinator Groningen to look together to see if a solution can be found to this problem. Perhaps this can even be done through pre-financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u3	That's an interesting suggestion from D66. The PvdA and D66 can always find each other when it comes to the importance of education in our society. One of the things that we learned from our work visit is that there are a lot of hours of people in education, such as in universities, colleges and primary schools, who are going to deal with that damage and that all those hours do not go to education. What is the position of D66 when it comes to the fact that so many teaching hours are spent on the damage that we have caused with gas extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u4	I would almost think that Mr Vos has read my text, because that is exactly my next point. It can't be that education money ends up in a construction project because it takes so many extra hours to manage such a construction project in a good way. This applies to education and also to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u5	Then how do you think we're gonna solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u6	Could the Minister, together with the National Coordinator Groningen, make arrangements to cover these additional project costs? As I have just said, it cannot be that, as we have literally heard on our work visit in Groningen, educational money threatens to go to a construction project and health care money. We all know how many problems there are to solve in healthcare, and we are at risk of going to a construction project. That can't be true. Those are just project costs and they should simply be included in the damages agreed with the NAM. As far as I am concerned, this should be the basis for a solution which the Minister, together with the National Coordinator Groningen and the NAM, is looking for, so that care money or educational money is not deposited in a construction site. I have therefore made this point quite clear so that I can move on to the monuments. That is a very separate category for which we must pay particular attention. During all the work visits we have made, we have seen that Groningen is full of beautiful monuments, beautiful churches, striking buildings and mills. You can't just tear them all down because new construction is cheaper. It is always good in itself to make a trade-off. The consideration here is whether a building can still be strengthened and whether the costs you have to incur for that or for repair, outweigh the value of this building. It is fine to make such a balance, but the monumental value of buildings and the position of some very striking buildings in such a village community have to be taken into account. That is why I ask the Minister whether he can promise that monuments will look at the reconstruction value and that the position in a village or municipality will also be taken into account. I think about the school in Bedum that we visited. I'm coming to the appreciation scheme. We have discussed several times that the earthquakes not only cause tears in the walls, but also tears in the confidence of people in the government. The increase in value was one of the schemes that we have devised in recent years, which the people in Groningen say: I have something to gain, this gives me the feeling that I am really being looked at and that there is room to improve my situation as well. I therefore urge you, Minister, to find a way of continuing the increase in value. My final point concerns the special cases. We have a committee of poignant cases, but there are special cases that fall between shore and ship. It cannot be that people in an individual situation, for example, cannot move for a job to Gelderland because they cannot lose their home in Groningen. I would like the Minister to give the National Coordinator Groningen some discretion in finding a solution to matters where it is not really what people are asked to do. The region requires peace and results. I hope that with this debate we can give this on a number of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u7	Mr. Chairman. Groningen wants his pride back, Groningen wants his autonomy back instead of the despair that is felt here and there. This has been made very clear by the independent counsellor, and that is what we saw on our work visit. Those who look into the business of the De Joode family or Annemarie Heite, for example, know how chaotic, desperate and complicated it can be. They are not exceptions. There's something wrong with Groningen. If you don't get buildings as safe as in the rest of the Netherlands, if you need an extra commission to think that neighbors of industrial gas extraction may be at ten times as high a risk as Dutch people alongside other large industrial complexes and if you don't make gas reduction a top priority, then you will maintain that desperation. One in three families in the mining area does not feel safe at home. Nevertheless, the government follows the advice of the State Monitoring of Mines in January 2013 to turn off the gas tap as quickly as possible and as far as possible as realistic is possible, still not out. During our work visit we heard several times that residents concluded intention agreements about the damages with the NAM, which at the end still had to be agreed by Shell. Then there was a great silence. This happened, for example, to the De Joode and Mrs Heite family, but also to a housing corporation and the Hanseatic School. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he recognizes the picture and whether he knows some of the cases. What's he gonna do to make this right? So I'm talking about the people who file a claim for damages almost being negotiated and at the last minute hearing that it's not going to happen. This involves both major damage and damage to individual families. The NAM negotiates backwards and doesn't finalize. Which NPR should it be now: the heavier green or the optimistic new white? The law states that all damage caused by mining activities must be compensated. Can the Minister confirm that NAM indeed has to compensate for all damage to buildings, outbuildings, monuments, installations and land resulting from mining activities, both inside and outside the contour line? There is always discussion about this in the province of Groningen. I, too, believe that the increase in value should be restored. After all, it was agreed that it would be there until 2018. If there is no promise from the Minister, then I will also join with a motion that calls for it. Farmers get money when there's a high-voltage tower on their land. That's what they get when a windmill comes. How does the Minister look at mining installations? Farmers themselves have said a few things about this recently. They believe that they should also be compensated. We've received a report from the Security Research Council on gas extraction. The Minister accepted all the recommendations contained in that report. I would like to walk them off with the Minister and to hear from him the extent to which they have been implemented. However, the two judgments of the judge immediately cast doubt on whether this minister is implementing the recommendations of the OVV. After all, if so, why do we still need the judge? Does the security of residents now have an explicit place in the balance of interests? Has the gas building changed? Will the Ministries of I and M and BZK in particular be involved in decision-making in the mining sector? Do Groningers know that, too? Can they see that? After the heavy earthquake in 2012, there were still many earthquakes. The idea was then to make the buildings safer, to lower the gas extraction a little and to make it a lot safer at the top; then we can just pump through. That strategy failed. 60% of the homes in the core area are damaged. A third of people don't feel safe. So far, 36 houses have actually been strengthened, rather than the 3,000 last year. The 5,000 next year has also been dramatically adjusted downwards. It is therefore time to tackle the tremors drastically and to solve the cause: the crane has to close further. The Minister has introduced a new magic word with "flat extraction." However, all experts say that a lower extraction will have an effect on the earthquakes anyway, while we do not know whether a more flatter extraction will do the same. That needs to be studied first. In any case, a higher amount of gas, also extracted flatly, is "saying" that all experts are less good than a lower extraction, even if there is fluctuation in it. Then I come to the safety criterion. I have just said that I really do not understand why a more flexible safety standard applies to a mining activity than to a Brzo institution. I would like to hear again from the Minister why mining activities are not treated in the same way. The acceptable risk should be one in a million. Is the Minister prepared to determine the group risk for the other locations in Groningen according to the method applied by the SodM and RIVM to Loppersum? If not, why not? And do SodM and RIVM agree? Nine months after the adoption of a large number of amendments from, among others, GroenLinks, the Labour Party and the Animal Party, those amendments have still not become law. How can the Minister say that he accepts the recommendations and that he wants to restore confidence, when all those majority amendments have still not become law? Then strengthen the independent supervision of the SodM. Where are we with that now? According to the Minister, has that recommendation been implemented and the SodM fully independent? Gas benefits are still covered by EZ. The Minister of Finance is not a shareholder at ECN. What about the progress on that? The fourth recommendation of the OVV was an enhanced research obligation. In 2012, the NAM had to install tiltmeters. They're not there yet. When is the Minister going to have the SodM maintained? What measures has the Minister taken since 2012 to ensure that the network of tiltmeters is in place? I mean really tilt meters, fast and accurate electronic water passes, and not the building sensors that TNO has put in here and there. Furthermore, the OVV has said: provide an independent research method or institute. We have not yet been informed of any progress on this point, as far as I know. The last recommendation is perhaps the most important: be honest and be transparent to the citizens about uncertainties. Now you can see that there is a whole series of reports and committees, including a committee created by the Minister himself. They all come with different dates that hit citizens, for example a different contour map. The OVV says, "Get clarity in that, just assume what you really know." So I'd really like to ask the Minister. For example, the Minister takes a poorly substantiated correction factor of 2 to 3 to move from one number to another. How can the public follow that? In short, now that it is clear that making the upper ground is going to take many years to make it safer, we read in the text that it is going to take up to five years, and that climate change forces fossil resources, fossil fuels, to stay underground, the Netherlands must do everything to shut down that crane as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u8	Mr. Chairman. "I'm very worried when the grandchildren stay over." Or, "we're trapped in our own home." Or: "After a quake, we see the school performance of our children deteriorating." That's just a few statements on my work visit a few weeks ago in Loppersum and last week's report on viability. One in three households feels unsafe. People suffer from stress, sleep problems and other mental illness. They feel powerless against the NAM, GasTerra and the government. This situation is irresistible to the Christian Union. Trust in recovery, restore trust. That was the motto two years ago and it starts to sound cynical in 2016. The Christian Union sees four main causes for this. Safety, is it still number one in last year's extraction plans and this year's? Why has much more gas been extracted than it needs to be? Secondly, the impact and the decline in value in the area, both inside and outside the contours, are underestimated by the Minister and the National Coordinator. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, a first step is to continue the increase in value. Thirdly, the independent handling of complex damages is still not in order. Fourthly, gas dependence is and remains far too high. If it is up to the Minister, we will also remain heavily dependent on Groningen gas until after 2020. Safety's on one. It is likely to become hollow rhetoric if gas production does not fall sharply quickly. Last year they were mature citizens who were able to enforce twice a ruling by the Council of State, but this year it is up to the Minister himself. Then why didn't the Minister instruct GasTerra to use the conversion capacity to the maximum? According to GasTerra, I quote "the Minister's commitment to sell up to 33 billion cubic metres'. Why does the Minister opt for gas production which, according to State surveillance, leads to more and more intense quakes in the coming years? The seismic threat is still increasing every year. Why was much more gas produced in 2014 and 2015 than needed for security of supply? In the middle of 2015 it was clear that the ceiling was set far too high? Why does the NAM still play such a major role in the investigation of security? According to the SodM, NAM has even failed to carry out a number of investigations. As far as we are concerned, this research will now be carried out independently of the NAM. The extraction in small gas fields and the storage of gas has been considerably increased, the residents of Assen and Langelo also notice in Drenthe. But will they also be compensated for mining damage? For the time being, even by the Minister, it is still denied that there is a connection with mining activities. I thought the residents would be the center of attention. Is the National Coordinator there for them? Is the Minister prepared to have a damages agreement concluded with them? While the property owners in Groningen are seeing the value of their house fall, the Minister announces that he will terminate the valuation scheme. I've been referring to it for a while. The reason: the 125 million pot is already, unfortunately, empty. It's a typical grocery mentality. Since the 1960s, the Netherlands has made more than 250 billion euros on Groningen gas. But a little recognition for people who have not asked for damage, insecurity and loss of value is apparently too much to ask for. The value increase scheme is a nice concession to house owners to make their home more sustainable and to compensate for the fall in value. The Christian Union is therefore keen to continue the arrangement. There is no normal housing market in the area. That's because of the combination of mining damage and shrinkage. The TU Delft report recommends that additional measures be taken in addition to the measures taken by the National Coordinator Groningen. Think of improving the quality of life, but also a good buyout scheme for people trapped in their homes. Moreover, it must be attractive for people to settle in Groningen. This includes security in the housing market. Is the Minister going to work on such an additional package, including extra money? In particular, I would like to draw attention to intangible damage, including psychological stress. The University of Groningen is researching the social consequences of the earthquakes. I think it's good to look specifically at the psychic burden. Is the Minister prepared to link this research to the research carried out by the University of Groningen? Is he also willing to discuss this with healthcare institutions, knowledge institutions and the platform Church and Earthquake that I have been talking to recently? Mining damage does not comply with a paper-based contour map. The Christian Union therefore advocates generous compensation within and outside the contours, including Woldendorp, Bedum, Delfzijl and the city of Groningen. The funny thing is that the contour map has been narrowed correctly over the past year, while according to the SodM a strikingly large number of buildings with high risk at the edges or even outside the contours. Can you still speak of a core area when it comes to strengthening houses? How reliable is the strengthening operation based on this contour map? I'd like a response. I also ask for a response to the pace and extent of the reinforcements. Last year, 3,000 houses would be reinforced. In December, only 23 houses were strengthened. Furthermore, manufacturers criticise the new NPR. They think these are too limited. Will the Minister respond to that? Others were already talking about the schools. I also mention the health care institutions. Parents want to send their kids to a safe school building. Municipalities must now accelerate their anticipation of demographic developments. I understand that there is still regular discussion with the NAM on the measures to be taken and on who should pay for what measures. You can't do that. The Minister must ensure that schools as well as health care institutions are strengthened as soon as possible. Then there is the cultural heritage, which I have talked about before. I would like to thank the Minister for the implementation of my motion on cultural heritage. Unfortunately, I hear from the area that there is not much haste with repairing damage and strengthening monumental churches and farms. The unique value of monuments must be preserved, even if it costs more money. According to the Monument Act, the Minister is obliged to do so. Is the Minister going to work on this quickly and will he consider, for example, a Brim-plus arrangement? I'm rounding up. In the production scenarios for the future, the Minister only calculates models above 21 billion cubic metres. I call on the Minister not to take gas demand as a starting point, but a rapid reduction in gas demand. 12 billion kuub and lower should certainly be the focal point for the coming period. Last week's energy report proudly talks about the gas roundabout. Until 2029 the Netherlands is a net exporter of gas and produces more than is necessary for gas demand. Moreover, until 2020, the Minister is counting on just as much gas extraction as last year. So my question is: how about less gas extraction? The Christian Union feels more urgent and would also like to see this urgency with the Minister in the interest of the security of the Groningen people, but also in the interest of the climate. With the climate summit still fresh in my memory, I want much more ambition and accelerated energy savings for buildings. Make new residential areas independent of gas and ensure more sustainable heat. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, Groningen is becoming the leader in the field of renewable energy in the Netherlands. When we talk about Groningen, we don't think about the Groningen gas anymore, but then we know: Groningen, that's where you have to be for your clean energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u9	Mr. Chairman. We have been three years, meters of research and more than 50,000 damage since the first debate on earthquakes in Groningen. So what have we done now? More than 15,000 families feel unsafe in their homes, 4,000 people suffer from mental problems and the number of complaints about the settlement of damages has only increased. Houses are damaged, unsafe and unsellable. Completely arbitrary contour cards are abused by the NAM and the Centrum Secure Living when it comes to damage handling. Residents are in a hopeless situation, trapped in their own house, outbuilding or replacement rental house. And all these investigations have only led to more uncertainty. That is the sad conclusion of this minister's three years of earthquake policy. For years, this minister has maintained that gas extraction could not be reduced. For years this minister has maintained that our neighbouring countries would be in the cold if we reduced gas extraction. For years, the safety of residents was not paramount. It is only after the court has intervened that gas extraction can now be reduced. Slowly but surely this minister is moving more and more towards the PVV, although it is all a bit thin. For example, the PVV already proposed in 2013 to introduce a buyout scheme, including for residents such as Mr Stapel, who has been living in his annex for a year as a prisoner. Now a buy-out scheme is finally being set up, including for people whose houses need to be heavily strengthened. But before that happens, conditions still need to be worked out. Why does it take so long? Why doesn't every resident whose home doesn't meet the 10-security standard get an offer to buy out or buy out? Now residents are told that their house is not safe and they are moved elsewhere, without any prospect of a future. If they do not accept this or if they protest against it, the NAM is threatening to cancel the lease of the replacement home, as is the case with Mr Zwarberg. It's incomprehensible how these people are dealt with. As far as PVV is concerned, these practices must be stopped immediately. For every resident who is placed out of the house, there should be clarity about the future of the home within one month, leaving the choice between strengthening and buying out to the resident himself. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The viability in the Groningen gas extraction area is under pressure. People want to move, but do not lose their homes, according to the research published last week by "OTB - Research for the built environment" of Delft University of Technology. It is incomprehensible that the Minister is holding back a buy-out arrangement for these people because of the fear of emptiness in the area. The upside-down world! Is the Minister prepared to follow the recommendations of this report and to set up a buy-out scheme for people who are having trouble selling their homes, as has happened for the people in Moerdijk? Another point that the PVV has often introduced is the reduction of Dutch exports. About 50% of the Groningen gas is exported every year. It is obvious that you can reduce the gas extraction ceiling by drastically reducing exports. The Minister is about to have a cup of tea with our neighbouring countries. The PVV would prefer to see him put his fist on the table and stand up for the people of Groningen. Is the Minister prepared to do so? If so, what will he propose in concrete terms to reduce the export of our Groningen gas this year? I am pleased that the PvdA has also come to this understanding, although last year this party voted against my motion to reduce the export of the Groningen gas. Political games are obviously more important to the PvdA than the security of the Groningen. Gas extraction can also be reduced by making more use of our nitrogen conversion capacity, combined with the import of gas or LNG. This too has been proposed by the PVV before. However, this conversion capacity has not or hardly been used in recent years. In addition, Siberian temperatures of -17°C were taken into account for years. As a result, tens of billions of cubic tons of gas have been pumped up more than was necessary for security of supply. Those of the coalition parties who now dare to claim that the security of the Groningen has been at the forefront of gas extraction should be ashamed. I'm rounding up. A common complaint in the handling of the more complex damages concerns the alleged delay tactics of the NAM. It seems that the NAM has taken over this tactic of slowing down from the minister. It continues to postpone the necessary measures for itself by stacking research on research. The PVV therefore once again calls on the Minister to maximise conversion capacity, reduce exports and further reduce the cap on gas extraction. Above all, however, the Minister must no longer hide behind red tape such as those contour cards, but simply pay generously for all damages, regardless of location. And he must always offer residents with severely damaged homes a buy-out scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u10	Mr. Chairman. When I walked out of the station of Groningen ten days ago, I saw in large letters: "David Bowie is." It was a few days after his death, but the Groninger Museum had fortunately not turned it into "David Bowie." But if there had previously been "the province of Groningen," many inhabitants would now have made it "the province of Groningen." Because the TU Delft report that was published a few days ago makes no difference. One in three households feel unsafe, have stress, sleep problems or other psychological complaints, and homeowners do not sell their damaged house. For many people, their habitat has become a kind of open-air prison. What does the Minister think of the findings contained in this report? My group is still most concerned about the establishment of the NAM. During my visit to the province I stumbled upon the following things. In the first place, although the University of Groningen and the Hanseatic College are a long way away from re-using their buildings as far as possible, the NAM only pays part of the costs. The result is that money for education now goes into building activities. Secondly, mayor and aldermen of Bedum, as well as lectures from other villages, do not recover and strengthen the schools, inter alia because the NAM does not pay for temporary housing. This, together with other costs that small municipalities cannot bear, results in everything coming to a standstill and parents tend to put their children a long way away. Thirdly, I found that in Loppersum row houses are strengthened and improved to zero-on-the-meter houses. But the corporation has not written in black and white that the NAM will pay for all this, while they have already started. Fourthly, there is in Delfzijl the express request of many companies to discuss the settlement of damages as a group with the NAM. However, the NAM does not want that. Oostelijk van Delfzijl, in the villages Woldendorp, Borgsweer, Wagenborgen and Termunten, where there is a lot of damage, the NAM, after having been a bit more forthcoming, turned its back on the people because the damage would not be earthquake-related. There's over 60% damage in some parts of that area. More than 60%! Fifth, the NAM buys houses from private individuals, which it then demolishes. In addition, hollow tooth are left behind, as in Oosternieland. However, nobody knows exactly how and what about the handling, because the previous owner always has a duty of silence. Finally, the NAM forces individuals to return the receipts from the reconstruction to the notary and to have them registered with the NAM, after which the NAM recovers the VAT via the tax authorities. I think that goes against the law. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Are the matters I have just mentioned known to the Minister and, if so, what does he think of this? Put all this together. Does the Minister not think it is deeply sad that a company responsible for the destruction of half a province and for not complying with Article 21 of the Constitution continues to act in this way? What is he going to do about this, what can he do and above all: what does he want to do? Is he prepared to guarantee at least in cases where only half-half of the funds are financed or where the NAM is trained with caution? There is now a multi-annual plan for the National Coordinator Groningen. This was presented last year by Mr Alders. My key question with this plan is how certain the National Coordinator Groningen can be of the funding. Is there any clear definition of what needs to be financed? After all, the NAM now says that over the next five years 4,000 buildings will have to be strengthened, but experts say: multiply that number by three. You're gonna end up at 12,000 properties. What kind of weird magic with numbers? The multiannual plan states that the Minister notes that additional resources may be needed to invest future-proof where existing budgets and public budgets are lacking. You have to read that three times, and then you don't know exactly what it says. I'd like an explanation of that. Take the schools, for example. What can the municipalities count on the school leader when I look at these words from the minister? At the moment I only notice confusion about the number of buildings and a struggle between two contour maps. Does the Minister guarantee the pace, coherence and funding envisaged in the multiannual plan to be implemented by the national coordinator? This brings me to the question of what damage will be compensated now and in the future, beyond the reinforcement exercise provided for in the multiannual plan. Is the Minister prepared to make an effort to compensate for all the damage caused by mining activity, as required by law? I want to get rid of the word 'earthquake damage', because it is also due to mining activities. If the water shelf has to adjust the groundwater level after soil decline, this is also due to mining activities. The damage card shows a different pattern than the contour cards. That's less oval. This is partly because of the epicentres of the earthquakes, but also because of things that have been taken badly, in my opinion. There are differences in soil decline in the area. If you compare halogenated cards, you can see that differences are a bit modeled away in the maps the NAM works with. Also the vertical peak ground acceleration I don't know how to say that in Dutch..... is not included. They are areas with cutting clays, very heavy, swelling clays that do not have the space to absorb the shock well when they get a thump. There are people who live on terpen and people who live next door to locks and canals. That's the spatial variability, which is essential to take with you when you look at the damage in the county. Why is this not included in the investigation of cause and effect? Why do researchers who bring this to the attention have no position in decision-making? Finally, equipment widely accepted by geologists, such as accelerometers and tiltmeters, is abandoned. SodM and the Tcbb also pointed that out. I already asked that in June. Then the Minister promised, but a few days ago, unfortunately, a note came in that the tilt meters are not needed according to the NAM. Why not, when experienced geologists say these are good instruments? Colleagues have already said a lot about the increase in value. I wholeheartedly agree with that. The appreciation scheme is a small patch on a very large wound. It's being used very well. People are still putting their own money in order to give an extra boost to the necessary reinforcement and future stability of their homes. Please, keep this fund up. How much is in the pot now? Related to this: what about the buy-back scheme for all properties with a risk greater than 10? A wider regime is needed than in the event of irreparable damage, or where the reconstruction costs are higher than the WMD value. The extraction is now at 27 billion cubic metres. That was enforced by the judge. It is very sad that the judge has had to rule on this case several times in the end. When will we reach the level 12, which is considered safe? Why did the Minister use only 35% of the conversion capacity at Zuidbroek last year? À raison of EUR 265 billion we have sucked out the province of Groningen. We have financed partially failed rail projects in other parts of the country. Groningen must be able to build his hopes on Mr Alders' multiannual plan, but I do not see any guarantees for the time being. In fact, I fear a tennis party where the Minister is Venus and the NAM Serena. The ball, that's Mr. Alders. The SodM, CVW, KNMI, Arcadis, TNO, GBB, the committee sister and so on, the Gasberaad, the Tcbb, the Ombudsman, the mayors and the king's commissioner are the ball boys. That is also what we are as opposition in the Chamber, unless the Labour Party and/or the VVD have the courage today to stand without reservation behind the residents, because the image of that tennis party is stuck in my head again after the visit last week. Finally. Ten days ago, the day ended with a torch parade in the city of Groningen. It was extremely impressive. I don't know which colleagues were there. I've seen Mrs. Van Tongeren. In the icy cold hundreds of people went back through the city. Unfortunately, we cannot ask David Bowie anymore, but all those Groningers who walked with them, all those Groningers who see their lives trampled, all those Groningers who have to abandon their plans for the future and all those Groningers who feel badly treated by the minister, the NAM and other parties are the real heroes of David Bowie.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u11	Mr. Chairman. Eleven days ago, on Friday 15 January, I was with the committee for EZ on a working visit in Groningen. During that visit we spoke with stressed, desperate and frustrated residents. Their habitat is regularly affected by earthquakes. These earthquakes cause unsaleable homes, health problems for residents and a lot of frustration among drivers. Those Groningers didn't ask for those earthquakes. They suffer the burden of gas extraction but not the lust. The harmful effects of gas extraction were confirmed last week in the report Living and living with earthquakes, carried out by TU Delft. The researchers conclude that the uncertainty about the handling of the damage leads to lengthy procedures and that the lives of the residents are completely controlled by them. The researchers also state that: "A part of the mistrust was created by unclear communication from the government and NAM. There has been a feeling that no one is telling the truth or fulfilling their commitments." At the time, this uncertainty was the reason for the Animal Party to table an amendment with the PvdA to reverse the burden of proof in the event of mining damage. The aim of the amendment was to lower the threshold for those affected in order to be able to go to court in the event of earthquake damage. At the moment, damaged people have to prove that cracks in the wall and loose windows are caused by earthquakes, but soon the NAM will have to prove that the damage is not caused by earthquakes. Last Friday, the Minister sent an amended novelle of this amendment to the Chamber. Unfortunately, the original objective is rather undressed. Instead of providing clarity for all those who have been hurt, a distinction is now made between those who have been hurt in the field of Groningen and those who have been hurt out there. The latter category cannot rely on the law, but it does suffer damage as a result of the earthquakes. Once again, the Minister takes the side of the miners and once again leaves part of the Groningen to their fate. It can't be. I look forward to an early discussion of the amended Mining Act. These earthquakes are not about a natural phenomenon. They're caused by gas extraction. This high gas extraction is due to our addiction to fossil fuels. Two things are important in Groningen. One: we must ensure that the houses are restored and strengthened. Two: at least as important is that we ensure that gas extraction is drastically reduced. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the Gas Mining Decision. After all, the Minister has made minimal efforts to comply with the framework conditions laid down in the decision of the Council of State. He didn't take another step. At the gas extraction level of 27 billion m, the inhabitants of Groningen have nothing at all. The number of earthquakes continues to increase and new damage is inevitable. I don't understand the Minister's motives. A high level of flat extraction would be safer than a lower level of extraction with fluctuations. However, the Minister himself has admitted that there is no investigation at all that underpins such a claim. However, we know that higher gas extraction leads to more earthquakes. Why is the Minister hiding behind unproven claims? Why does he choose such a high level of extraction, knowing that this causes more earthquakes? I'd like to hear his reaction to this. The Minister always points out the need to be able to meet security of supply. The Party for Animals also does not want people to be in the cold. That is why my party has been calling for gas and energy-saving measures for years. Gas that you don't consume, you don't have to pump up. The only way we can really help the inhabitants of Groningen is by reducing gas demand significantly. The reporting of State surveillance of the Mines shows that at a rate of 12 billion cubic metres or less, earthquakes will cease. We are far from that, but it is nevertheless good for the Minister to have an investigation into a scenario in which gas extraction is reduced to the level considered safe by the State's supervision of the Mines. So that's 12 billion cubs. Does the Minister agree with me that gas extraction levels can be reduced if gas demand falls? Does he therefore believe that an important part of the solution lies in investing in energy-saving measures and that the government should play a coordinating and directing role in this? Why has the Minister not taken concrete steps to actually reduce gas demand since the relationship between gas extraction and earthquakes has been firmly established? What additional measures can he take to reduce gas demand? I explicitly ask for measures that are not included in the energy report. The Minister is happy to rely on this, but in that energy report I am missing a concrete policy plan. The Minister first wants to conduct the dialogue for months to see what steps can be taken. I would like to hear concrete steps now, not first a dialogue, then a committee, a policy plan and then probably a dialogue again. I would now like to know from the Minister how the gas demand can be reduced. I'd like to hear a response to this. Now that I have talked about sustainability and energy saving, I come to the value increase scheme; colleagues have already talked about it. With this scheme, the Groningers can make their homes more sustainable, reducing both their energy bill and their energy consumption. It is a small compensation for the suffering suffered. The Minister has indicated his intention of abolishing this regime. Why? Of course, we will never get on with making energy management more sustainable. On the contrary, I want to see the Minister investing extra in the sustainability of houses. For landlords there is already the incentive scheme energy performance rental sector, also called STEP. Unfortunately, homeowners are excluded from this. What possibilities are there for a similar arrangement for homeowners? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Finally, I call on the Minister not to shift the problems to other areas. When there was a commotion about the gas extraction in Groningen last summer, the Minister's first reaction was to get more gas out of the North Sea. But that's not how we solve the problem, just as gas extraction on Terschelling is a solution. The import of high-caloric gas is not a solution either. Gas is gas and we need to get rid of fossil fuels. It's got to be less, and we don't just have to go out and win somewhere else. We must now make full use of clean and sustainable energy supplies. Eventually, those are my last words. We have to get to the end of gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u12	Mr. Chairman. The Mulder family, Hiltje Zwartberg, Maya Larkens and the Meulema family. They are just some names of Groningen families, Groningen people, residents of the Netherlands who suffer from a hopeless struggle, because they feel that their gas extraction damage is not being properly compensated. I know these people because they send me e-mails because they speak with me and because we visit there. Many of my colleagues here in the Chamber know them too, because unfortunately we have to talk to them year after year. This can and should not be done in the Netherlands. We have all benefited incredibly from the Groningen gas. We've earned hundreds of billions of dollars from it, and we can't abandon those people who are in such a miserable situation right now. In Amsterdam, the construction of the Noord/Zuidline made some buildings somewhat skewed. I see Liesbeth van Tongeren, who is from Amsterdam, nodding. Immediately the whole building was shut down and all of Amsterdam was in turmoil. But now that it's in Groningen, let's do the year after year that people are in the cold and in the misery. We see it, we stand by and not enough is happening. Who is responsible for compensation for the damage? That is what is laid down in the Mining Act: that is the operator. In this case, that's the NAM. The NAM has to pay for all the damage. My question to the Minister is: why are there still so many people, so many complex cases and so many special cases, but in the end just so many people and families who are in misery and with whom we have to visit year after year, because their damage has not yet been resolved properly? For example, the foundation of their house has not been addressed, but the wall is, because they suffer from soil decline and not earthquakes, because there is compaction and not earthquakes, while it is all about the same: it is about mining damage and it has to be compensated under Dutch law. I ask the Minister for an answer: how are we going to deal with this? In the preparation of this debate, I looked at how we can make this clearer and ensure that it happens and that these people are given more rights. The House has, of course, adopted an amendment on this. That was before the summer of last year. That amendment was about reversing the burden of proof, so that people in Groningen no longer have to sue the NAM and prove their damage, because we reverse that. That amendment then went to the Council of State, then comes back and now comes back into a new law. My impatience may be because I have only been here for three years; we may hope that it will be settled before the summer of next year. That's one way. I would ask the Minister to make every effort to do so now, so that people can at least look forward to this solution. I've looked at other cases, too. In the Netherlands there is also the possibility to launch a judicial investigation. I do not want to go that far at the moment, but Articles 170 and 171 simply state that in such a case a judicial investigation can be carried out to see whether such a company is fulfilling its obligations. I do not want it to happen and do not think it to fit in with the Dutch situation, but I ask the Minister what he will do to ensure that we do not sit here again next year and that I do not have to mention the same names again of the same people and families who are in a miserable situation. The data doesn't add up. We've set up the Groninger Gas Ombudsman in this room. The minister then renamed him Counselor. We make jokes about this, but an ombudsman does research, takes stock of the problems of the population and reports. He also reported to the Chamber. What does he report this year, I ask the Minister. He reports that the number of complaints has increased by 50%. An increase of 50% in a year in which gas extraction is much less than in the past and in which we also seem to have fewer tremors. However, the number of complaints is increasing by 50%. So it just doesn't make sense what's being reported to us. The Minister says that the Centre for Safe Living, responsible for dealing with the damage, will receive a 7.1. However, I also read that a sample of the Association Eigen Huis shows quite different numbers. I'm gonna go check on them. This simple sample shows that 24% of the Groningen people are satisfied and 56% are dissatisfied. How can the same Centre then securely live a 7.1 according to the Minister's response? Groningers are disgruntled and need help. As a chamber, we have an expensive duty to sit on top of it, because we've earned all that money. When are all these damages gonna be completed? I would like to thank the Minister for the answers to Parliament's questions on the cooperation agreement between the NAM and the Secure Living Centre, because what exactly is it like? What arrangements have been made in this regard? Is the Centre Safe Living the NAM or is that something independent? Are those appointments public? No. Why aren't they public? I've asked the director of the NAM to make that agreement public. He said in the room he would. So I'd like to look forward to that agreement, because what about the counterexpertise? People from Groningen complain about the counterexpertises that are being performed. There is still no clarity about this either. Why don't we just see that agreement in public so we can see what's happening? That must be transparent. The Labour Party wants the gas from Groningen to be used more strategically. The gas can be an engine and a spare battery: an engine to generate more renewable energy in the Netherlands and a spare battery because we, even if we have a lot of wind and sun, will need gas hard and long to secure our energy supply. The Labour Party has therefore advocated the reduction of sales abroad. I think it is good if we take the time and if we do this carefully, but I expect more action from the cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u13	I thought it was so quiet about the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u14	To be honest, I was a little worried, too. The tradition is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u15	I fully agree with the Labour Party's argument that gas extraction can go further down and that we need to accelerate much more with sustainability, but I have a technical question about the switch that Mr Vos wants to make between wind or sun on the one hand and gas plants on the other. He said we could use the Groningen gas, but don't those power stations mainly run on gas from the small fields and not on gas from the Groningen field? If so, how can I see this point in his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u16	There is a distinction between high- and low-caloric gas. The gas from the Groninger field is low-caloric gas. By adding nitrogen, you can eliminate that distinction. An additional nitrogen station is therefore planned. That's what one of my questions is about. In 2013, the Labour Party together with the VVD filed a motion to take all the necessary precautions to ensure that that transition goes well. What exactly has happened since then? Only in 2019, so six years after that motion was tabled, will that nitrogen plant become operational. Why did that take so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u17	That is a good question, but my point is that Mr Vos says that we need the Groningen gas for the gas plants, whereas these gas plants are not running on the Groningen gas but on the gas of the small fields. So that's not about the gas being extended. The point of conversion has nothing to do with that. That is why I wonder how Mr Vos intends to use the gas from the Groninger field as balancing if there is no sun or wind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u18	I didn't say we should shut down the gas tap in Groningen. So we still have enough gas to run those gas plants. The gas is also used in our households, but you also know that the calorific value of the gas is decisive for those plants and that you can cut that gas with nitrogen, so that it can be used in the plants. You can also convert the power plants to make them technically suitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u19	Mr Vos is in favour of reducing the export of our Groningen gas abroad. That's great. That's great. That's great. The PVV has been advocating this for a long time. I tabled a motion on this last year, for example, but also on the previous year. The PvdA has always voted against it consistently. I would like to know from Mr Vos whether this was a political game over the backs of the Groningers: we are voting against all the PVV motions. Or does Mr Vos just need a little longer to come to the same understanding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u20	C'est le ton qui fait la musique, they say in French: it is the intonation, the way you pronounce and formulate something, that makes the music. Apparently, you didn't get the right tone with that motion and you didn't use the right words either. That is why we voted against this motion. It was about, among other things, the drastic way in which you wanted to do all that. I have argued for care and for taking it down in consultation with our neighbours. You wanted to break it open at once; you used that word. That's how your party is characterized. Unfortunately, your party is also characterised by statements that are racist and by an undemocratic tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u21	Mr Vos, we are talking about the extraction of gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u22	You are a member of a party in which you have nothing to say. That is why I am in general opposed to supporting your motions. I really don't want anything to do with it, Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u23	Look, now the monkey comes out of the sleeve: the PvdA has not supported the PVV-motions because of political opportunistic games. That's too bad. You should take your work as a parliamentarians seriously, you deserve enough with it and from now on you should assess proposals on content rather than on the author of the motion. That would be much better for the Netherlands and that would be much better for the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u24	I should like to go into the substance of the matter in more detail on the issue of exports. In the Minister's letter and in other documents, I read that from 2020 Germany will reduce the use of low-caloric gas and that Belgium and France will do so from 2024 onwards. The Minister says: I'm going to do my utmost to speed it up. Now the Labour Party says that that is not really enough and that we still need a little bit more. I would like to ask Mr Vos: what's with the tooth? Does it have to stop in 2018? Should we have completely stopped exporting in 2024? I will just mention a few years, because I am looking for what the Minister has to do in order to meet the wishes of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u25	I heard a Belgian parliamentarians on the radio this morning. He said: we will have to switch to renewable energy sooner, including in Belgium. He understands we're going to say goodbye to the fossil age. He also understands the Labour Party's desire to cut off gas exports, because the safety of the people of Groningen demands this and also because our CO emissions demand it. I'd like to know from the Minister what he's going to discuss in concrete terms. So I don't want to hear that he's gonna do his best. I want to hear what he's going to talk about in concrete terms and what year we're going to be able to cut it down. As I said before, we asked the cabinet in 2013 to take precautions. Now the Belgian Government wants to switch over in 2024, as Mrs Dik said quite correctly. That is eleven years after the Chamber, by adopting the motion, asked the Cabinet to take as many precautions as possible to protect the people of Groningen. I think we can do it faster than we did in 11 years. Technically, this can be done, as Mr Lankhorst of GasTerra said in the Chamber. Now the question is: is that going to happen politically and administratively? We are responsible for the control of the cabinet. I'll ask the Minister what he's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u26	It is, of course, Mr Vos's right to ask the Minister what he is going to do. However, I ask the Labour Party what it is going to do. What the minister is going to do is read in the letter: he is going to talk to Belgium, France and Germany to speed up the transition. I am very curious: is the Labour Party going to table a motion which states that 2024 is not agreed and that it wants the transition to renewable energy and high-caloric gas to be deployed from 2018 onwards? Then we have two more years. 2018 seems to me a reasonable period. Is that the ambition of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u27	That's exactly what I said on the radio this morning. I said that 2018 or 2020 could be a very good time for that transition. I would like to add that I am not going to support Mrs Dik's motion which she is about to table and which states that 'the Labour Party from 2018... etc.'. I ask the Minister: go and talk to the Belgians, Germans and French and perhaps also the Italians and then come back to the Chamber with an explanation of how we can do it as soon as possible. I would also like to tell him that that does not have to take 11 years, because you must have a very long story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u28	I am very pleased that now the PvdA is also advocating the phasing-out of exports. I've tried to make that point before. At present, short-term contracts are still being concluded, although they run for up to five years. One of my first questions is: does the Labour Party agree with GroenLinks that one of the first questions should be to the Minister whether he does not want to conclude contracts for such a long period as five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u29	You were there when Mr Lankhorst explained here in the Chamber that a lot of gas is being traded on the daily market and that it is not so much a short-term contract, a long-term contract or a five-year contract as it is a question of the demand in the countries and the people who have households on which gas is at stake. In addition, he considered it to be the factories and the power generation facilities, the "utilities" using that gas. That is why I think it is right that we in the Chamber should not focus too much on the period for which the contract is concluded, i.e. five years, long-term or one day, but on the question of whether the cabinet intends to make a comprehensive plan with neighbouring countries to see how gas exports can be scaled back as quickly as possible. In the Netherlands, we can ultimately relieve the population of Groningen and use the gas in the transition to a more sustainable energy economy. That's the question. We also have a cabinet to carry out such matters. We have to check that it does its job well. I said I don't think it's going fast enough right now. Since the energy report does not have the highest level of ambition, we have also decided to set our own vision against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u30	I think that is a very long answer to my first question. If this is to be done abroad, we must also reduce our demand for gas in the Netherlands. A while ago, like other MPs, I filed a motion. I hope the PvdA will be able to support them now. It is about doing research into the consequences of not connecting new buildings in the Netherlands to the gas network. How does the PvdA view this? By not connecting new buildings in the Netherlands, the demand for gas is reduced by a little bit. Asked to map out the situation with regard to the new building. According to the law, it still has to be connected to the gas network.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u31	GroenLinks and the Labour Party are working together on climate, energy saving and the environment, in many ways. In my view, we differ somewhat on this point. I'm not much for a ban on connection. I do think that as much energy efficiency as possible should be built. We have all kinds of standards that are tightened up every year. I also believe that the cabinet and, in particular, Minister Blok, are lagging behind in the field of energy saving, although he has now put forward a package of measures. I hope we will reach the agreed 100 petajoules, but I also note that we were at 50 petajoules and that that was not enough. That's where we're hanging out. I look forward to doing so on this subject as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u32	Please continue with your speech. I think you should go round up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u33	I've got one minute and 47 seconds left on the counter. I shall come back to the previous point. I would like to give the Minister an example of two countries: Uruguay and Denmark. The Minister has recently been to Saudi Arabia. My group was somewhat critical of this. Now I would like to invite the Minister to take a look in Uruguay and Denmark, where they are rapidly switching to renewable energy. In Denmark they have been doing so since the oil crisis of the 1970s, in Uruguay they have built a fascinating lead in the field of renewable energy over the last ten years. They are almost completely independent of fossil energy, while that society was very much involved, just like the Netherlands. I would like to give these two examples to the cabinet. On what basis does the Minister base his answer to question 155 of the written questions that the problem in Groningen is the result of earthquakes caused by gas extraction? I have referred to this before. Why is there always earthquake damage and not mining damage? Why does the Minister say that soil decline cannot be dealt with by the Safe Living Centre? Any damage resulting from mining damage must be compensated. My group is very concerned about the safety of Chemie Park Delfzijl because of the effects of earthquakes that can occur there. We've been waiting years for research. What is the position with regard to this, particularly in view of the fact that we in Loppersum have either phased out or phased out the extraction, but the mining in Delfzijl and its surroundings continue unabated? In conclusion, I would like to talk about the contours. Citizens of Oldambt, Veendam, Bellingwedde and Pekela feel orphaned, as they put it themselves. That is because we, or rather the NAM and the KNMI, have come up with something that we have taken over here: contours. If you fall outside those contours, you don't belong and you don't have earthquake damage. Again: if you have damage, it has to be compensated. It's almost a kafkaesque situation we created there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u34	I thought Mr. Vos was almost at the end of his term...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u35	He's already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u36	...but I haven't heard from him about the appreciation scheme. How's the Labour Party in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u37	This increase in value has achieved a great deal with relatively small amounts. It is one of the few things the Groningen feel positive about. My group wants this arrangement to remain in full force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u38	Mr Vos had the front page of the Volkskrant this morning. Congratulations on that. Of course, my group agrees with his plan to reduce exports, but as Mrs Klever rightly said, we have been talking about this for a few years. There have also been several motions on it. So what exactly is Mr Fox's plan? Is he going to table a motion on this matter similar to the motions that have been tabled in recent years? And then we hear from the minister again "you have to prove force majore and that's not gonna work" after which it doesn't work? So is it a balloon or is it really a well thought-out plan that Mr Vos knows for sure has the chance of success?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u39	In recent years, the Labour Party has fought hard with you and your predecessor and with the other spokesmen to do justice to the people of Groningen. As a result, we have gone on average from a scandalous 54 billion to an average of 42.5 billion in the extraction plan that was in force at that time, to 27 billion now. That's what we've all been pulling at. I would like us to stick together, including in reducing exports. In recent years, this has been played in different keys, in many questions from political groups, in comments, in comments and in motions. I have now put it on behalf of the Labour Party in this way. You know as well as I do that one time something is big news and the next time it isn't. The relationship with our daily work sometimes escapes us as a Member of Parliament, but in this case it is a broad living wish of the Chamber. We often hang out with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, and we will do the same. We will initially table a motion together with GroenLinks, but I will certainly consult with you to see if we can take a joint position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u40	That sounds good. My follow-up question is about the increase in value. Mr Vos also mentioned this after the visit to Groningen. He would like that arrangement to be maintained. But if I understand correctly, he wants to link it to funds that would go to the Economic Board in Groningen. However, these funds come from the province of Groningen and they have already been earmarked. Did I get that correctly? Or does he want the Minister to keep the increase in value in any way, through the spring note or whatever?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u41	During the round table I asked the Economic Board to explain how he was using the 100 million. Frankly, I was not really convinced of the answer on the effectiveness of spending. Having heard the board, however, I do think it deserves a chance. So I would like to let that go, but we will have to find cover for maintaining the value increase scheme. 'Cause for nothing, the sun's going up. At least that applies to most parties in this Chamber. On the real left-hand side of the Chamber this is sometimes considered differently and my own group has also been guilty of this in the past...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u42	Your spokesperson's financials doesn't shake it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u43	...but in this case, we're gonna find a decent cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u44	This is a critical contribution from the Labour Party; I think it is right. I would like to refer to the remark on the reduction of gas extraction. Mr Vos mentioned where we are now and where we come from and said that we have realised this with each other. I see that slightly different, because it was the Council of State last time that said: this cabinet policy is not good; 27 billion cub is the maximum, except for very severe winters. The Council of State has intervened. I have listened to the speech of the Labour Party. Could Mr Vos reflect on the following? What, according to the Labour Party, should be done differently in the coming year than in previous years to ensure that the Council of State does not again determine the policy of the Cabinet, of which the Labour Party is a part?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u45	In short, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u46	However, for the sake of clarity, the PvdA has its own position in the Lower House and I have taken it up again and again. I think this deserves a little more respect than is being displayed right now. I paraphrase in my own words what the Council of State has said, because it is a very long statement. I think Mrs Mulder said it was a winter in which you could ride your car over the IJsselmeer lake when one should have assumed an average winter. In the end, we all have to respect that statement by the Council of State. The cabinet and also the PvdA immediately said that it is good that the Council of State has looked into this. That statement must, of course, be implemented immediately. This renewed adoption of 27 billion in the Winning Plan also reflects the judgment of the Council of State. I think that's very good, but let's not make it any more than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u47	I'm still looking for the PvdA's course for this year and the years after. Because I don't think we're that far from each other. The goal is to reduce gas extraction. Eventually, gas extraction will have to be substantially reduced in order to achieve the safety of the Groningers. A few years ago, a motion from me was adopted with the support of the PvdA to see why we're increasing gas extraction to the maximum every year, while perhaps we can temporize better, so at a lower rate we can get gas and bring down the volumes. Then we still have a gas supply in the ground and can serve the residents in Groningen with it. So again: what is the PvdA going to do differently this year and next year than in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u48	Mrs Dik-Faber says the goal is to reduce gas production. No, the aim is to ensure the safety of the citizens of Groningen and to produce as much sustainable energy as possible. Those are the targets of the PvdA. The reduction in gas extraction is a consequence of these objectives. In doing so, I will give a partial answer to Mrs Dik-Faber's question. I gave the other part of the answer this morning in the media article that Mr Smaling put forward. If we're going to reduce exports, then I think we should be able to get around 20 billion. We can enjoy the gas from Groningen much longer and it can be won much safer. If we have a more sustainable energy system, with more wind and solar energy, we can use the gas in a good way as a battery and a spare capacity. That's what the PvdA wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u49	Mr. Chairman. The earthquake at Huizinge in August 2012 made the problems for the gas extraction in Groningen absolutely clear. For the inhabitants of Groningen the impact on their daily lives is great. This is also evident from TU Delft's Housing Market research that came out last Thursday. There were about 58,000 claims. More than 10,000 buildings will need to be strengthened over the next five years. 15,000 people don't feel safe in the house and 4,000 people are mentally underneath it. The people of Groningen didn't choose that. The Netherlands has long benefited from the gas from Groningen. Now Groningen needs our support. Therefore, damage treatment, strengthening and investment in the economy and in living conditions must be addressed generously, smoothly and in a solution-oriented manner. This must be the commitment of the multiannual programme, but these conditions are still not sufficiently met at the moment. For my group, this is particularly the issue of the increase in value. The Minister ends it and the CDA finds that incomprehensible. This specific regulation, which comes from the opinion of the Meijer Commission to compensate for the often years of misery caused by gas extraction, is the least that can be done for the inhabitants of Groningen. The National Coordinator Groningen still has to make a replacement arrangement, but in the meantime a well-running arrangement is already turned upside down. Why did the Minister decide to abolish this scheme and thus remove the real compensation for the Groningen people? In addition to the new regulation of the National Coordinator Groningen, does the Minister see the possibility of continuing the existing regime for people who are going to be excluded from the reinforcement programme, but who have suffered damage and have suffered years of misery and nuisance? Why is this scheme not retained in addition to the new collective schemes for the sustainability of the earthquake area in Groningen? Is the sustainability of the buildings also aimed at commercial buildings in the area? I would like an answer from the Minister to all these questions. The CDA wants the settlement of damage and the strengthening of the earthquake area in Groningen to be as independent as possible. That is why the following is important to us. First of all, the methodology of the seismic threat and the risk or contour map must be developed. The Meijdam Committee recommended that an independent body be set up for this purpose. The Minister follows this advice and is in consultation with SodM, KNMI and TNO. When will this new agency be here? What legal basis does this independent body have? What is her mandate with regard to the NAM? Over the past few years, I've had a lot of complaints about the contour map. Earthquakes do not adhere to contours and this map does not always coincide with the places where the damage is. This leads to a lot of frustrations, as it became clear during the visit of the Permanent Committee for Economic Affairs to Groningen. It has to do with a sense of injustice that this is done to you, as a resident of the area. You didn't ask for that gas extraction, but you'll get the damage on your plate. Then you are dependent on an arbitrary contour card for the question of whether or not you are being properly met. For the CDA, this is unacceptable. Damage caused by mining activities must always be compensated, as the law states. The arrangements should be open to all residents of Groningen who have suffered damage as a result of gas extraction, especially as extraction moves to other parts of the Groningenfield. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The CDA wants the Safe Living Centre to function independently of the NAM. The CVW now has the appearance against it, because of the protocol there is with the NAM. According to the Minister, is it possible to make that Centre Safe Living more independent of the NAM? Is he willing to discuss this with these parties? I would now like to talk about a gas extraction from the Groningenveld as low and flat as possible. In the past year, the production ceiling has been adjusted downwards by the judge. Then it turns out that the extraction can suddenly go down. Can the Minister indicate today whether he would like to make much more use of the conversion capacity available? Together with the PVV, the CDA has drawn a lot of attention to this in recent years. What's to stop the Minister from doing this already? Is the Minister prepared to agree with Gasunie as soon as possible on the use of conversion capacity and with GasTerra on gas demand, so that the use of conversion capacity contributes as much as possible to flat and low extraction? Is it possible to match a bandwidth of the deployment of this conversion capacity, for as flat as possible and as low as possible extraction? Is the Minister prepared to make agreements with NAM on filling the gas storage in the summer and using it in the winter? Is the Minister prepared to look with the inhabitants of Langelo at a zero measurement of the effects in their area? If you're going to store extra there and you're going to take it out again, what are the effects of that? Of course, we shouldn't move the problems. SodM and the minister both argue that fluctuations should be avoided. That is why I think it is important that we do the same. The CDA considers it important that the new extraction plan should take into account as low and level extraction as possible, with the use of storage and conversion capacity regulated. In 2014, a budget was made for the settlement of damages, the strengthening of houses and the economic compensation for Groningen. The amount remaining is totally insufficient to implement the multiannual programme. What arrangements are there with the NAM about the reinforcements? How will the Minister ensure that all buildings in Groningen comply with the 10 standard by 2020? What is the planning of the inspection of the reinforcement plan and its implementation? How is this funded? An urgent issue is that of residents and businesses, whether agricultural or not, which are expected to make investments. They often have to do so faster than would have been the case in normal, normal circumstances. To what extent is the Minister prepared to reach an arrangement whereby these investments can be made available at a more favourable rate? Is the Minister prepared to investigate this? It is certain that gas extraction also leads to soil decline and yet there is a lot of uncertainty about damage caused by soil degradation from gas extraction. Can the Minister explain how damage caused by soil degradation is dealt with by gas extraction? According to the Minister, what distinction can be made between inklinking and damage caused by soil degradation by gas extraction in the mining area? How does the Minister intend to do justice to the inhabitants of this area? In the written reply, the CDA requested the review framework of the most risky companies in the chemical industry. The Minister has indicated that this is in the making, but when will it be ready? Furthermore, the CDA has received a commitment from the Minister for which I would like to thank him and his people. For example, it is important for residents of the whole of the Netherlands to have a hotline where they can end up when they suffer from mining damage. We notice that residents are hoping against a large organization like the NAM. We therefore welcome the fact that the Minister has now set up a hotline for this. When will this hotline be operational? Furthermore, the Minister has promised that RIVM will also respond to the definition of social risk and that it will also be involved in its calculation. This is an important point for the CDA, because group risk has now been replaced by social risk and we want a clear understanding of it. I can agree with the D66 Group's suggestion to look at the reconstruction value of monuments rather than the economic value. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's response to this. I would like to conclude by saying that we really hope for a movement by the Minister today, particularly in relation to the increase in value, because the inhabitants of Groningen need to regain perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u50	Madam President. Many colleagues have already pointed out: fear, uncertainty, concern, tension, sleepless nights. If you put the numbers together, they mean a lot. They're bald numbers. Mr Smaling also said it: a third of households in earthquake communities feel unsafe and there are 4,000 people with psychological problems. They are a very bare figure, but there is, of course, a world of uncertainty and daily tension behind it. What strikes me is that this is the quietest gas debate so far. Only Mr Vos attracted some more fire, with a few interruptions. That may be his style, but I don't think so. It is rather the key position that he, of course, takes with his group in this debate. I will shortly tweet my proposed text, with a repetition of all the points that colleagues have already mentioned. The striking thing here, however, is that we agree on a lot of things together here. I mention better insight into the bottom descent, which I hear in all kinds of stories. How do we deal with the damage that results from this? I refer to the role of independent research. How do we finally achieve once we no longer get conflicting signals and that we no longer have to fight for the information we simply need, for the debate here, but especially for the people there? Better and faster damage handling is needed for all relevant buildings. Mr Vos has said very nice things about this. It must be so that you will simply be compensated for damage caused by earthquakes and soil decline. There must be a generous strengthening programme for all buildings that are relevant, and not again for just a part of the buildings. What is also very important to us is the maintenance of the valuation system. For the sake of clarity, therefore, I agree with those Members who have said very good things about this. I agree with that and do not think it is very useful to repeat it all here. My question to the Minister is as follows. What does it mean for him to see the Chamber so united? The Chamber is otherwise regularly divided on numerous issues. There are a lot of energy debates here, and then it often goes hard against hard. One finds this and the other thinks that, while we are now sitting in a plenary debate that is actually going very quietly. I'm tasting massively here: this is a problem and we really need to do something about this. In my view, this should mean something for the government's handling of this problem. How do we solve this quickly? There is only one thing I think is very important, namely the point of the mining sec. What level of extraction are we going to? We call for the reduction of gas extraction, including by means of a delta plan for energy saving. Mr Vos just mentioned the 20. That's what the press said. The question is whether that is wise. We have the whole discussion about the level versus the fluctuation in a year. I also hear more and more experts say: we thought this was a problem, but the burden of proof tends increasingly towards the lower the extraction, the better, even if you get a little more fluctuation. How does the Minister view that? What is the current state of knowledge? Isn't it true that we're really moving towards that lower level? In any case, you can see that the analyses so far do not set the light to red. If you look at the lower level, I think there are three things that matter. First of all, the whole discussion about these export contracts. They have indeed been discussed before and now come forward as a very salient point. I would like to ask the Minister what the possibilities are for doing that, because of course there are contracts. There are agreements with other countries and I am afraid that we are going to find ourselves in a situation where it is going to be a well-nuke game in the press, and that, I think, is not good. We should just really see what the real possibilities are for doing that and how we can do it as soon as possible. I would ask the Minister to give us a) insight into what the possibilities are, but b) to include the Chamber in that process, so that we do not stand against each other, but pull on the same side of the rope. Those export contracts are point one. If you've lost it, you can use what you have nationally in stock and you can also use that gas supply for longer at a lower extraction level per year. The second point is energy saving. This is something that colleagues have said about. I think it is a very important point, because in the energy agreement we have agreed on things that do not happen and I do not always feel the urgency that we do see in the light of the wind when it comes to energy saving. In the case of energy saving, I do not see that urgency. Now, just during this debate, a fine letter was received on the additional budget for subsidies in order to stimulate this energy saving. But wouldn't we need a higher pace to get that done? Because what you don't use, you don't have to raise. The third point is the discussion of the exact moment when you set that ceiling. Of course, we have a lot of discussions with each other. You have to be able to handle a cold or an average winter and you shouldn't have cold houses when you need the gas. But if we set a ceiling now and it turns out that January and February aren't at all cold but hot months, that actually means that if you don't change the ceiling, you can win the rest of the year if you don't have to. So shouldn't you go to a more flexible system in which, for example, you see it once, taking into account the fact that it might be warmer than you thought and there is in the system that you will go to a lower ceiling in the rest of the year? Or should you go to a system in which you look at the ceiling further up in the year and, if you find that you don't need it, you go to a lower extraction? He has been mentioned several times, the term "confidence of recovery, restoration of trust." I believe that, on all these points, I and my colleagues, it is necessary for the government to speed up and speed up in order to really restore that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u51	Mr. Chairman. We have had regular debates over the past few years on Groningen. The Minister is often invited to explain his policy here. There have been round tables, technical briefings and the permanent Chambers Committee has often visited Groningen for work, as even last week. On behalf of all my colleagues, I should like to express my thanks to all those people who have participated: the inhabitants, the directors, but also the Registrar. In Groningen we have noticed that trust in The Hague is sometimes minimal. Yet Groningen's door was always open to us. This Minister too will not be unmistakable when it comes to engaging with Groningers. I would therefore like to congratulate the Minister for Economic Affairs on his way of working. This is a minister who has taken up the whole of the earthquake problem and has been working on it vigorously. He takes the concerns of the residents seriously, but also of everyone who depends on the Groninger gas. Those are sometimes difficult considerations. The Council of State has now indicated that the maximum extraction is 27 billion cubic metres. If there is a cold winter, there can be up to 33 billion cubs won. This ruling is given for the VVD. We support the Minister's decision to implement this one by one. In the meantime, more and more information is becoming available. The reduction in gas extraction went from 54 billion cubic metres to 27 billion cubic metres in one cabinet period. That's an unprecedented and unmatched halving. That's a fine achievement that deserves praise. More and more information is available from the round tables, technical briefings and conversations with residents and drivers. Unfortunately, we have to conclude that we still don't know enough. Caution should be exercised. The National Coordinator Groningen has been appointed to establish a multi-annual plan, a plan in which not every six months a different policy is pursued, but a plan in which residents and entrepreneurs know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u52	I am thinking for a moment about how to formulate this, because I very much appreciate the Minister and also very much appreciate Mr Bosman. But we've been fighting each other here for three years to reduce that gas extraction. Some opposition parties said the gas extraction had to go to 12 billion cubic metres. The PvdA was always in between; the word "key position" has fallen. That is another way to say it; I felt it rather as a very difficult and very pinching place. But Mr Bosman's party was not always at the forefront of the reduction and neither was the Minister. We have to be honest about that. So if Mr Bosman now shows it as something he has done with his party, I think that is a little too far. I'd like to mark that. I would ask Mr Bosman to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u53	I regret that Mr Vos has to report this in this way. When I read back in my speech, I cannot see that I am punching myself in the chest. I cannot see that I am saying here that the VVD has made the most brilliant points. It has been the subject of research in which we have all really made a journey. However, we have noticed that throughout the course of gas extraction, this minister has been to Groningen more often, has spoken about gas extraction and has spoken more often with the population than any other Minister of Economic Affairs. I therefore regret that we are taking each other's measure in this way. That is neither convenient nor necessary, precisely because we are working here to achieve something together. I liked the words of Mr Dijkgraaf on this point. Of course we can look for nails on low water, but I do regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u54	Mr Bosman will probably also find my question on the search for nails on low water, but if you are in an area where you are allowed to drive 130 km/h, 160 km/h and you are going to brake, do you have to be praised for that? That 54 billion cuub was much higher than agreed; the Minister generously admitted it. So it's right it's going down. But to say that there has been a halving of gas extraction, I think that is a vastly poetic freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u55	I'm sure Mrs. Van Tongeren will agree. However, I believe that this is about steps that the Minister is taking, simply putting down and defending, and with which he is going to work, with all the uncertainties that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u56	I, too, am pleased that the Minister is carrying out the judge's ruling for the whole gas year, but that judge had to use it first. My group, too, has been doing its best to convince the VVD that it has to go down since the earthquake at Huizingen. So I'm happy with the outcome, but I think it's fair to say in the trial that it took a judge and a report from the OVV to convince the VVD. I am glad that the VVD is now talking about 27 billion cubic metres and that we are going together to further reduce gas extraction. If we can find each other at that end, I'm happy, but for the historiography it's fair to point out that the VVD needed a lot of conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u57	The Council of State's ruling not only refers to 27 billion cubs, but also 33 billion cubs. That is even more than what the cabinet has decided. You can say that the Council of State has taken a wise decision, but in the end more could be won than the cabinet has decided. So I think we all need to see it in perspective. We are all working wisely on the safety of Groningen, but we must also do justice to all those who need the gas. That's how we move on. Mr. Chairman. The multiannual plan was first made in the interest of the residents, in consultation with the directors of Groningen. This is the result of previous discussions that we have had as spokesmen to place more control with the Groningers and not in The Hague. And yes, I mean, among other things, the House of Representatives. It is therefore good to see that this multi-annual plan has broad support from administrative Groningen. Except for one component: the value increase scheme. This is an interim arrangement. This arrangement was the most concrete measure of recognition of the damage suffered by all earthquake victims. This scheme gave ground to the improvement of confidence and the idea that something was actually done about the damage. It was also a scheme that directly provided employment in the area. Because of this increase in value, was the "is" or should I say "is"? Groningen is the example of sustainability in the built environment. I understand that this interim arrangement is now included in the multiannual programme, that the money is still available and that it is linked to the process of strengthening and strengthening. This makes the money more efficient and allows larger groups of houses to be strengthened and preserved at once. That makes perfect sense. However, for the inhabitants of Groningen this is a step back. There was a good settlement, confidence and employment increased and the cost of living went down. And then we're gonna stop this arrangement. That's a widely heard complaint from everyone involved in the earthquake file. The VVD considers that the increase in value should be restored to damage. That desire lives wide, not only in Groningen, but also in the Chamber. However, there is much more possible in Groningen. If companies like Google want to settle there, there is enormous potential. The VVD therefore stresses the importance of the Economic Board Groningen. This Economic Board Groningen is an excellent means of giving small and medium-sized enterprises, often locally, the boost and support needed to guarantee or maintain the right of existence. Groningen can increasingly present itself as the front runner in terms of sustainability. The knowledge gained in Groningen can be used anywhere in the Netherlands, and even anywhere in the world. The energy transition is on the agenda. Groningen could be the embodiment of that transition. Connecting high-quality knowledge with expertise in sustainability creates a win-win situation. Such communication also contributes to the restoration of trust. Residents can now sometimes not reach their contact at the Safe Living Centre for longer periods. Also, meeting agreements is not always a good thing. If agreements are made, residents and entrepreneurs must be able to trust that they are respected. How can the Minister ensure better communication between the Centre Secure Living, the NAM and the residents? Will the Minister ensure that communication is improved? Is he prepared to take action if communication does not continue to run properly? The streamlining of the various studies and measurement data can also be improved. Is there a possibility to offer these data in one central place, so that anyone interested in getting to know them can view them and possibly use them? I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u58	You can have a good laugh with VVDs. In that sense I am always fond of the VVD. However, that has not really been the case on this dossier. The VVD has been very stubborn for a long time. Now we have to deal with the consequences. I believe there's only one VVD alderman left in the city of Haren. That's what's left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u59	What is your question, Mr Smaling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u60	That's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u61	My question is about this increase in value. In this respect, Mr Bosman now has concrete proposals. What can we expect from him? Does he come up with a motion on this subject, which could include the names of spokesmen from all political groups, so that we can unanimously instruct the Minister to maintain that increase in value at the same level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u62	I sincerely hope that the Minister will say that he will take over. That would be much nicer. But know that there is a motion in preparation. I hope all the spokesmen will put their names under that motion. That's what we're doing. This is a broad-based motion. We talked a little bit about this. I happen to be allowed to take action for that. But let's be clear, if there's a motion, she's all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u63	I'm happy about that. Can I go one step further? Is Mr Bosman also in favour of poking to scale up quake damage to mining damage? Several spokesmen have said that mining damage must be compensated, because that is what the law says. In recent times, of course, there has been a lot of discussion about what is and what is not earthquake-related damage. Can I include Mr Bosman in that broader definition of mining damage? All mining damage must be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u64	Yeah, the hard part is that this is a legal term. I'm not legally qualified. I think it is important for the Minister to explain how he sees it and where the legal complications lie. But if there is damage, it must be compensated; I agree with that. Then there is the discussion of whether the damage is caused by soil decline, by earthquake or by mining. I absolutely agree that this discussion must be brought to an end. That needs to be clarified. In addition, Mr Smaling thinks I am on his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u65	I said in my contribution that it was agreed that the 191 complex cases would all be dealt with before the end of 2015. That worked for a long time, but it didn't work out at about 30. GroenLinks considers it urgently necessary to ask the Minister to ensure that the last 31 cases are dealt with very quickly. The people involved must have certainty and know how to move on with their lives. Does Mr Bosman agree with my group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u66	Yes. Damage must be dealt with quickly anyway. However, Mrs van Tongeren talks about complex damage. So it's complex. The people who have the complaints and the people who have to assess them must therefore come out together. I sincerely hope that the system that has now been put in place, with all the possibilities that exist, with the arbitration that is about to arrive in Groningen, will be accelerated. I hope that people will get a hold of their own and arrive at a decision more quickly in the discussion they are having with the assessor about their own damage. I would like that ruling to be binding on the causer and not on the complainant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u67	That arbitration will start somewhere in March at the earliest. These people were promised that they would receive a final offer on 1 January against which they could say yes or no. I hope that the VVD also believes that we should not wait until we have an arbitration, but that, as promised, a solution will be found for them much faster, also to keep their trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u68	I couldn't agree more. However, that is not what the Rules of Procedure say in this Chamber. That's in the system we've put down. Then it suddenly becomes the question whether the Minister will decide it on a case-by-case basis. Then it is a ministerial decision examining the case of damage and saying yes or no. I find that a very difficult one. I think there are a lot of systems that are ready for any objection and appeal. I do think people should be supported throughout the process. I welcome the role of the National Coordinator Groningen. We could strengthen them in that. They could also look at it, without us investing that role there at the same time. I have a positive feeling at the National Coordinator Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u69	We have come to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of more than an hour. The sound doesn't know it from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u70	Madam President. I will indicate how I would like to sort of classify my reaction, but may I first say that I think the big words that some spokesmen have used for the situation they experience in Groningen are appropriate. The following is clear to all who regularly come to Groningen, which is certainly true for the spokesmen, who maintain intensive contacts with the people in Groningen, as well as for me; I also maintain those contacts. It has been said that the people in the area feel bad because of what is happening, that the whole of the Netherlands has long benefited from natural gas, including the people in Groningen, but that its adverse effects will only be felt by people in Groningen. They're in the defense. They are concerned about their safety and that of their children, about their area as a whole and about their village. They see that something is going on with the value of their home. All uncertainty comes down to their children, including their own state of mind. The words "fear," "uncertainty," "care" and "voltage" certainly apply to a lot of people in Groningen. That is why I am very much in favour of the same seriousness expressed by the spokesmen in their story being the hallmark of my actions in relation to Groningen. I'll try to tell the Chamber that I'm trying to do that on all fronts. I think I have already achieved some results. These results still have to be felt by the people in Groningen. It is only when we achieve this that we can expect a positive response from the people of Groningen. I will go into more detail on the scale of gas extraction, related to energy policy. Then I'll go into the investigation, which needs to be done, the supervision, which is at issue, and the damage. Several spokesmen have raised a number of points. I will briefly go into the housing market and a little bit longer on reinforcement and what goes on in that regard. I shall now turn to the point made by all the spokesmen, namely compensation, in particular the increase in value. After that, I'll go to the spokesperson's apartment and see if I've forgotten anything. I will pay attention to that. In this way, I hope that I have done justice to the contributions of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u71	I'd like to agree that there's a possibility of interrupting when you're done with a block. We don't have to, but if we need to, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u72	Oh, you were talking to the spokesmen, not me. Obviously, Madam President. I'll see how you decide. Maybe it's good to start with the question of what actually happened to reduce gas extraction in Groningen. I shall do so on the basis of what Mr Vos said about this. Some spokesmen spoke about this in a slightly different way. They said: it was actually the judges who made sure that less gas was produced and not the minister or the cabinet. I don't think so. That's not true. 2015 was a cold year. Then 54 billion m of gas was extracted in Groningen. The two years before that, 47, 48 billion m of gas was extracted. That's about it. What's going on now? Last year, in 2015, 28 billion m of natural gas was extracted. According to the decision of the Council of State to be followed for the 2015-2016 gas year, which is the period from 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016, gas extraction will have to reach 27 billion m maximum. That's the ruling of the Council of State. If you compare the 48 billion from 2011, 2012 to the 28 billion realized in 2015, then you see that there has been a very drastic reduction in gas extraction. Why did that limitation come about? Why is that? This is primarily due to the people in Groningen. It has begun with the experiences they have transmitted and the things their directors have done. The Chamber then interfered intensively in this matter. I would also like to mention State surveillance of the mines. When I took office as a minister, there was just an opinion from State surveillance on the Mines. That has been an important start to the development I have just described. The people in Groningen, the Chamber and State supervision of the Mines have thus been decisive, but also the cabinet and myself as part of it. I was also very motivated to do that. I've taken care of the necessary investigations and advice. I have also made sure, together with my colleagues, that we have been able to cope with the effects of reducing gas extraction. Let me say something about that. Gas extraction is primarily about safety, but it is good to face the following. If you compare the Reich's gas revenues in 2015 with the Reich's gas revenues in 2016, you'll see that it's 11.6 billion less. I repeat: EUR 11.6 billion less on an annual basis. Of this, 7.6 billion was caused by the reduction in gas extraction and 4 billion by the lower gas price. Thus, it has had enormous effects, which have been integrated into the government's financial system. The combination of advice we have received, consultation with the Chamber and consultation with the directors and the people in the area, as well as the private insights of the cabinet and of me, have led to us reducing the extraction as it has now been reduced. In addition, I already decided in 2014 to build a new large plant for the production of nitrogen, which can be mixed with the high-caloric import gas, to reach the level of the low-caloric gas from Groningen. This is a very large installation that needs to be fully developed. She will be ready in the year 2019 at its fastest. Then she needs to be able to spin. I can't do it before. However, I already made that decision in 2014, so that the installation can run in 2019. The result will also be that 5 to 7 billion m of gas will not have to come out of the ground. This can be imported and then mixed with nitrogen and then imported into the system. That is the measure we have taken. I think that the combination of the implementation of the drastic reduction, the decision to build that nitrogen plant and the decisions we made with the Safe Living Centre, the National Coordinator Groningen and all the activities around it, which the Chamber is aware of in detail, is right to the sincere concerns of the people of Groningen. We have done what we can be expected to do. It has been asked whether gas exports cannot be phased out much faster. We've talked about the contracts before, but it's not really about the contracts. The point is that people in Germany, France and Belgium are connected to the low-caloric gas from Groningen, except in the Netherlands. Their equipment is adapted to this and only suitable for that purpose. If you want to import other gas there, a lot has to be done to get it done. It might be good to indicate the room we're talking about. You must imagine that the amount of gas going to Belgium, France and Germany is about equal to the amount of gas we use here in the Netherlands. 20 billion m goes to Germany, 5 billion to Germany and 5 billion to Belgium. A total of 4.3 million people are connected to low-caloric gas in Germany. One third of the low-caloric gas comes from Germany, where it quickly falls. Two thirds of them come from the Netherlands. Because of the problems in the Netherlands and the reduction of gas in Germany, the transition from low-caloric to high-caloric gas will have to be made there. The Germans' ambition is to convert 430,000 out of 4.3 million connections per year in ten years, between 2020 and 2030. This cannot be done at once, but at least three visits by a professional or craftsman are required. A person with a sense of gas who can do so in a responsible way must therefore go to a connection three times. This means that converting the 430,000 connections per year requires 1.3 million visits from a professional or craftsman to such a connection. That's a huge operation that requires a lot of people with knowledge of gas. All this needs to be organized. That's what the Germans are going to do: they're going to make sure that between 2020 and 2030, so ten years in a row, they're going to make these 1.3 million visits every year to get this done. Similar operations should take place in Belgium and France. In France, too, the French do not have their large-scale infrastructure in order for high-caloric gas. That is something that needs to be done. It is my ambition to start with the Germans in Belgium and France in 2020, and that Belgium and France will also be ready by 2030. We're not there yet. We've been talking about this with the French and the Belgians for a few years. We are constantly putting more arguments on that, because of course these arguments are also growing in strength. I have good hope that we can bring it to them that, as in Germany, they will achieve that decline in a period of ten years. So we have the situation in the picture that the new nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek will be available and that in Germany, France and Belgium the phasing-out will be carried out with full force over a period of ten years. Then it looks very different in and for Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u73	Were you done with this cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u74	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u75	Mrs Klever and Mr Smaling want to interrupt, but after the completion of this block there is an opportunity to interrupt. That's the deal we just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u76	Excellent, Madam President. Some spokesmen have suggested that we should do even less than 27 billion m at the moment, on which the Council of State has now made a statement and in which I and the Cabinet have deposited us for the current gas year. First of all, let me say that it is not the case that judgments by judges have brought about a reduction in gas production. There have been two judgments of judges. The one pronunciation applied to the extraction of gas in Loppersum. As a cabinet, we decided to reduce the production of gas by 80%. Then the judge said that 80% is not enough and that even closer, as close as possible, had to go to 100%. That's what we did then. So that was the difference between that 80% and close to 100%. The second ruling of the Council of State was for the 2015-2016 gas year and concerned the 27 billion m. For the year 2015, we had originally decided on 33 billion m, with an additional 3 billion m from the storage facility in Norg. That meant that only 30 billion meters had to be won. That is what we ended up with: in 2015 this led to a mining of 28 billion m. I do not wish to contradict the importance of the Council of State or of the judge, but I do wish to contradict the suggestion that gas extraction would only be reduced by judgments of judges. I do not think that is the case at all. It did happen because of the commitment of those I mentioned in the beginning, starting with the people in Groningen. I've already indicated the reversal of the gas system. Some say you can do even less than 27 billion m. I must contradict that at the moment. We know that there are two possibilities. One possibility is to search for a flat level of gas extraction, where you have as few fluctuations as possible and that is also justified, given the reinforcements you then have. The NAM has made a statement on this: the NAM finds 33 billion m per year and a corresponding reinforcement of 4,000 homes, on which a multiplication factor must be released, a good outcome. The State surveillance of the Mines has given me a different view, namely: you have to sit as low as possible with that gas extraction, but you should not sit so low that you get big fluctuations, because in our opinion fluctuations lead to less security and more seismicity. The State surveillance indicated that it did not know at that time how big it was; for that it required research of two or three more years. But, according to State surveillance, we know that fluctuations lead to seismicity and therefore you should not sit too low with the level of gas extraction. Research has been done to see if there can be a reversal of the system, based on full-power nitrogen plants and, depending on the temperature and the need for extra gas, gas extraction in Groningen. I have had to conclude that it is not justified at the moment to do so. This would lead to the fluctuations for which State supervision has warned. Especially for a period of two to three years, namely until the research results are available, I do not think we can decide on that. So we are heading for the other, at a level that is flat but certainly not too high. That level must be somewhere between 23 billion and 31 billion m. We need 23 billion in a year with a warm winter. We need 31 billion in a year with a cold winter. 27 billion is right in between. The Council of State has said: sit on that 27 billion. That's what we're doing now. Soon, if we have to make a decision on the extraction of gas by 1 October for the coming years, we will see what research and experience data will be available. On that basis, we can then take a follow-up decision for that period. Of course, it is not to be expected that what comes out of it will be above 27 billion m. In the decision-making process in October, we will see what the outcome will be. If I were to turn to less gas, to more use of the nitrogen plants, then go in the direction of reversal of the gas extraction, another system. From that other system, I have just indicated that this is not justified. That is why we are now on a system in which we win 27 billion from Groningen with a variable part that is necessary to deliver extra gas if it is a cold winter. That is the system that is now being applied. The spokesmen said, among other things, Mr Dijkgraaf said in his statement that, on the basis of experience in the course of a winter, we should look at what can be adjusted to that level of gas extraction that we first established. Suppose for a given year I fix 27 billion m, the average of a cold and a warm winter. Then that winter turns out to be warmer than average. In that case, you could use the gas extraction back a little bit. This is part of the decision-making process that will take place in October. I told the NAM to figure out how, using the best possible use of the gas storage in Norg, a very large gas storage of 7 billion m, and of the nitrogen plants, in a responsible way, without causing fluctuations, can respond to the course of winter. That will be investigated. We will be able to involve the results in our decision-making process, which must take place before 1 October. I also...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u77	Mr Smaling, outside the microphone you say you want to make a point of order. I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u78	I was almost done on this point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u79	Yes, Mr. Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u80	I want to make a point of order. With all due respect, there are a lot of things coming along that have been brought in by many spokesmen. I'm not saying anything to the Minister's detriment, but this just doesn't work out well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u81	No, I had that impression, too. I suggest the Minister complete this block. Then I'll give room for interruptions. Indeed, a lot was taken into a block, so interruptions were not limited to one time. This is not an invitation, but there are a lot of Groningers in the public gallery who want to get home on time. But it's about the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u82	I'll be at the warehouse at Norg's. The impact of this storage on the area and, in particular, on the area around Langelo has been asked. Mrs. Mulder has requested a zero reading. It cannot be carried out because the storage at Langelo started in 1996. This means that whenever decisions are to be taken on Norg, we have to look at the safety aspects of it. So that's what we're doing. Each time, a measurement plan indicates what should be measured in order to assess the effects. The SodM must then assess whether that measurement plan is correct. That system of measurement plans, its assessment by the SodM and its conclusions from the SodM is running and I think it is necessary to follow the situation there. In the meantime, I should also like to point out that there is a reduction in seismicity in Groningen as a result of the measures taken. In the year 2015, no, in the year 2013 we had over nineteen palpable tremors of 1.8 on the Richter scale or more. In the year after, 2014, we had eleven. In the year 2015, we had twelve. So there has been a significant reduction in seismicity in the area. Of course, that was absolutely necessary. However, you can see that this does not lead to a decrease in the number of claims. During the period when seismicity decreased by almost half, the number of claims has doubled. So the movements are opposite. I cannot draw any conclusions from this, but I note that this process is currently under way. Mrs Van Veldhoven has established a relationship between gas extraction and energy saving. Others did, too. They said you don't have to get gas you don't need out of the ground either. With energy savings, the cabinet is in full swing. It is an important part of the coalition agreement, of the energy agreement. We are also on the move under the European Commission's directive that we must have at least 1.5% energy savings per year. We do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u83	Mr President, may I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u84	I thought you'd finish your story very quickly, Minister, so members of parliament could interrupt. I am now giving the opportunity to do so. I shall begin with Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u85	I just need to dig into my memory. The Minister often uses what he said at the beginning, namely that a reduction in natural gas revenues is dramatic. I can imagine you doing that as Minister for Economic Affairs, but natural gas is of course running out. We only have a certain amount of natural gas left in the Netherlands, onshore and offshore. So it's running out anyway. The price of gas is now low, so I would like to throw the Minister's attention to the fact that, from the economic point of view, it is wise for the longer term to be careful what we have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u86	I don't use it often; this is the first time I've used it. I don't use it as an argument for doing things or not doing things. I'm just pointing out that that's the actual situation. We are jointly responsible for the state budget. A reduction of 11.6 billion per year on a budget line has an impact on the budget as a whole. I'm not using it as an argument; I'm just reporting it as a fact that's happening right now. I do not draw any conclusions from that either. I base my conclusions on what is needed there, firstly from the point of view of security of supply and secondly from the point of view of security of supply. This must be taken into account responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u87	But there are natural gas benefits throughout the whole process. After that, the minister says he wants to stay at 27 billion m and the seismicity goes down. What's that all about? I think it's because the gas extraction has been reduced. The state or graph of the SodM, which the Minister probably knows, shows that at a rate of 27 billion m a year, the number of quakes increases, I believe by one and a half. Only around 18 billion m you're about at a level where the quake risk doesn't go up. A lot of things that the Minister actually uses as an argument to stay high, I think it is right that we should take the route down faster. Not until around 18 you're about at a level where the quake risk doesn't go up. So there are a lot of things that the Minister is actually using as an argument to stay high, which are in favour of moving the route down faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u88	I don't want to sit on 27. I want to create a flexibility on natural gas of between 5 billion and 7 billion m by building an additional nitrogen plant. I already made that decision in 2014. In 2019, that factory could be ready. The second thing we have been able to agree on is that exports to neighbouring countries will be reduced by 2030. That's a huge operation in those countries, but it's going to happen. That 27 is the situation right now. We will look at what will be a responsible situation for the next few years from 1 October. That 27, however, is not a goal for me. I have just indicated the nuances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u89	The PVV has been asking for a reduction in the export of our Groningen gas. In previous gas debates, the Minister has always said that we cannot, because we are stuck with long-term contracts with abroad. Now it does not seem to be about the contracts, but it turns out to be about households in Germany, Belgium and France being in the cold. I find that special in itself, but my question is about something else. The minister says that in Germany they will start to rebuild the gas connections of 4.3 million households and they will not start until 2020. We read in the documents that Belgium does not start until 2024. Why don't they start for a few years? Why don't they start right now? Or better yet, why didn't they start last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u90	Those long-term contracts are, of course, a fact. There are long-term contracts, but I've nuanced them before. I said: if there is not enough gas available, it is not the case that we can cut abroad and go on in the Netherlands ourselves. Nor is it the case that you do not have to take into account those who do not have long-term contracts. Long-term contracts, short contracts or no contracts: you always have to look at what's behind them. Those are the ordinary people who want to warm their homes and cook. In the end, you have to take that into account. That's the responsibility we have. That is the responsibility I have now highlighted. I have said that it is possible to remove the underlying importance of the people connected to the Groningen gas by connecting them to other high calorific gas. So that's what we're going to do for our customers in Germany, France and Belgium. Now Mrs. Klever asks why we don't start immediately. The Germans are already starting to taste. In Belgium, too, they will start earlier, but you have to have professionals visit 1.3 million people who have a gas connection in a year's time. You're gonna have to keep that up for ten years. That's a very large-scale operation that requires the organization and qualified personnel. This is now being set up and this can start in Germany from the year 2020. My ambition is to start it in Belgium and France in that year. Then it will be the end of 2030 in all three countries. At that time they no longer need Groningen gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u91	I think it is rather low ambition to start in 2020. We've been talking about reducing gas extraction in Groningen since the beginning of 2013. The Minister knows that, too. The minister could have talked to abroad from 2013 to start the conversion. Now they only start the conversion seven years later, in 2020. I understand it's a very profound operation, but they can start much sooner, can't they? Surely there is some urgency for the Minister to ensure that gas connections are converted abroad to reduce gas extraction in Groningen? I'm kind of missing the Minister's urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u92	It is a matter of great urgency, which is why it will start in 2020. The talks with neighbouring countries are already under way from the year 2011. The urgency we feel is great. The urgency they feel there is also great, hence they are in the process of setting up this large-scale operation. The fact that we are going to start this way in 2020, we in those countries, especially Germany, because that is the largest amount of qualified staff available on that scale, and we have the organisation to do so responsibly, is the expression of the urgency that we feel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u93	I would like to continue on this point, because I am getting reports from Groningen and I see that people have to leave their homes for a long time because the situation is so serious, sometimes even for 14 months because the house is being renovated. With that contrast, I don't think 2020 sounds that urgent at all. I just don't feel that way yet. Perhaps the Minister could explain to me again what to say to those people in Groningen who have to leave their homes for 14 months because potatoes in Germany need to get warm?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u94	I don't understand why we talk derogatoryly about the people in Germany. We have the same people in Germany, France and Belgium as here in the Netherlands, namely people connected to the Groningen gas. If we do not deliver that gas, then they have a very big problem, the same big problem as the people in the Netherlands. We need to ensure, responsibly, that there is a conversion in the countries that have so far taken away the gas from us in Groningen. That's what's happening. We did what I just said. To describe this in all its colours: in a year, professionals and women had to visit people to convert the plant to that high-caloric gas in a responsible way. That's a large-scale operation. It must be well prepared and planned over a long period of time. I think you can only make this change in ten years because of the urgency you feel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u95	I do have a bit of a problem with the qualification of how I would talk about Germany. I am, of course, concerned with the urgency for our citizens in Groningen, and the Minister is very helpful about that. I just want an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u96	I referred to what Mrs Mulder said, namely that the people of Groningen should leave their homes for 14 months because they need to be warm potatoes in Germany. Let us treat the people of Germany in the same manner as we treat our own people in the Netherlands. It is also people who are connected to that gas. It is a necessity that we in the Netherlands should ensure that less gas is produced. We have already achieved a great deal and in the future we will have to achieve even more. This requires a large-scale operation in the other three countries and agreements have been made on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u97	Mrs Mulder is allowed to intervene again on the same point, because she has not yet received an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u98	I thought it might have been taken over by my colleague. The situation in Groningen is serious for the inhabitants. That's what the CDA cares about, because due to the reinforcements, a lot of people will have to leave their homes. That's all gonna happen in the years to come. That has a profound impact on all residents of Groningen. Can the Minister not therefore really make more haste with our neighbouring countries? He himself has indicated that he has been in conversation since 2011. Then I'll just find 2020 very far away. I can't really explain that to the people of Groningen. I really hope that the Minister will come to a different conclusion and make even more haste.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u99	I don't quite understand what I didn't answer to. I have answered this question twice. A very large-scale operation must be set up for this. You will need a large number of professionals who will have to do what I have just described in a responsible and organized way for 10 years. If you can organize everything, so if you have the people ready and have completed the necessary preparations, such as pilots and so on, to have this run for ten years from 2020, I think you will fill in the way that does justice to the urgency of the problem as we see it in the Netherlands. Belgium and France will start later. One country starts in 2021 and the other in 2024. Thus, discussions are now taking place with both countries with a view to allowing them to do what is necessary between 2020 and 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u100	In 1959 the Groningenveld was used for the first time. Does the Minister know how long it took for all the inhabitants of the Netherlands from the very first moment they were in that field in Groningen with a machine, the Minister knows the grainy photos from 1959 were connected to that gas network?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u101	What's up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u102	That lasted exactly ten years. Now the Minister is making the point that from now on it will take fifteen years before we have converted the entire network that has been built in ten years from low to high caloric, because qualified inspectors have to pass three times. It's 2015. I think we can do better now than when our entire gas network was built. I also think the task is smaller. I believe that it has been shown that it can be done much faster than the Minister is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u103	I can only repeat what I have already said. A large-scale operation has now been agreed for the responsible transition from low to high-caloric gas. That large-scale operation requires a set-up and staffing. You should get some experience with that, too. In Germany, all this will be done by 2020. From 2020 they will make the transition at a rapid pace. I've already indicated what this means every year. That's what's possible. I have no indication that this could be done faster than the way I have described it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u104	From 1959 onwards, the whole of the Netherlands, from scratch, could be equipped with a whole gas network in ten years. Then it is completely incomprehensible that you now, in the era of iPhone, claim that you need fifteen years to convert it from one kind of gas to another kind? There's no way I can get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u105	I leave the appreciation of what I say to Mr Vos. It's up to him to have his views on that. I'm not gonna say anything I can't do. I have no indication that it could be done in a responsible way faster than the way we have agreed on. So this is what can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u106	We now have clear that it is not the contracts, which means that the Groningers have to be in trouble even longer. We have heard from Minister Dijsselbloem that it is not the money for the treasury either. But now we get the story that we deliver to that last country in Germany, Belgium, France and Italy, but I haven't heard that mention yet. Nobody can get the potatoes or pasta cooked if we don't leave the Groningers in misery for a long time to come. Energy policy is a national responsibility and that is why I have a few questions. On other aspects, like the German Energy Week, we say: the Germans choose how they do it. Perhaps these countries want to opt for energy-neutral housing. Maybe they want solar panels on it and heat pumps. Why are we going to look at how these transitions should be shaped for these other countries? Why do we do this in such a way that our own citizens, for whom we are directly responsible, are still much longer in the endless misery that the Groningen people are now in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u107	In the years 2011 and 2012, we were at a level of 47 to 48 billion m and now we are at a level of 27 to 28 billion m. So we've been working on a significant reduction in recent years. A further reduction can come in the picture if we have also realized the new nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek, which should be ready in 2019. Furthermore, we have made the agreements that we are currently discussing. That means we're fully engaged in working on the future. We are not yet working on the conversion that is now being taken up in those other countries, but we will soon be making it mandatory that the equipment sold in the Netherlands can be connected to high- and low-caloric gas. So we're gradually growing somewhere. We do not do the whole conversion they do in other countries. Those other countries do. I also think it's a good thing they do. They must do so responsibly as quickly as possible, and I think that is the case. Italy is now being brought in, but there is no low-caloric gas going to Italy. The gas that was brought to Italy is high-caloric gas. In the Netherlands we also win high-caloric gas and we also perform that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u108	Can the Minister explain to me why the gas price is falling? If there is such a huge demand for gas and there is such a long-term need for gas, you would expect those gas contracts to yield more and more. In reality, we see revenue for the treasury going down, as the minister also said. This means that there is a large surplus on the market. Somewhere in the story, that can't be both true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u109	There is a large supply of gas on the world market. As a result, the price is currently low. However, there is a limited supply of low-caloric gas. That low-caloric gas is here in Groningen and partly in Germany. In Germany it is quickly exhausted. At present in Groningen there is 700 billion m3 of natural gas in the ground. That low-caloric natural gas in Groningen is limited. We are dealing with those who are connected to it. It is therefore not a question of price but of equipment adapted to that low-caloric gas from Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u110	Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u111	I believe that Mrs Van Veldhoven has a question on the same subject. Maybe it's best if she says it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u112	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u113	Thank you very much to Mr Wassenberg for the collegiality. You can't just break open international contracts. We cannot just put people in the cold in Germany, Belgium and France. We also have to deal with this carefully, but I do share the surprise of my fellow Members about how long it should take. We're not starting the discussion on the cover today. I say to Mr Smaling that five years ago we talked to Paulus Jansen about the transition from one type of gas to another. So it takes more than 20 years. Then I ask Minister Kamp: does the consideration that we are also reducing part of our sales market in a transition of such a long duration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u114	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u115	I'm really glad to hear that. Then I am sure the Minister will have no difficulty at all in making any attempt at least to engage in a discussion with the countries we are talking about to see whether we can speed up things, taking due account of the care of the people in Groningen. If the Minister says there is no reason why he shouldn't, I don't see why he wouldn't be willing to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u116	The answer is no to that too, because those conversations are already going on. Those talks have already led to an outcome which, in my opinion, is a result that can reasonably be asked and delivered. What I just said is what needs to be done. A lot of work needs to be done and a lot of money needs to be invested in it. This can happen this way. I have no clues that could lead me to try to do so in a shorter time than is currently provided for in the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u117	We have been talking for 25 minutes about the transition from low-caloric gas to high-caloric gas, but much more importantly, how do we deal with the switch from gas use to much less gas use? The Minister talks about 23 billion cuub in a warm winter and 31 billion cuub in a cold winter, reaching around 27 billion on average. That's the number with which the Council of State came. I would like to know from the Minister what he has done to drastically reduce that figure, for example through housing insulation, because that is ultimately the changeover that we really have to make, because we want to get rid of the gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u118	We recently had, I think a year ago, the idea that we needed 33 billion m in a cold winter. By now, that has become 31 billion m. The reason for this is that we have already achieved results in terms of energy saving and increased use of heat. At the moment we have 5% of the houses in the Netherlands connected to heat and we work to 25%. We have done a great deal in terms of energy saving and we will continue to do so. I have just spoken about the 1.5% a year we already do, and even more so, in line with the European directive on this point. The energy agreement states that the energy savings we must achieve by 2020 must be equal to 100 petajoules, i.e. the energy consumption of 1.4 million households. So we are currently in the process of taking all kinds of measures to ensure that by 2020 we have achieved this great energy saving exercise of 100 petajoules. On all fronts, the use of heat for energy saving, the provision of alternatives to the Groningen gas, the reduction of gas exports, we are simultaneously working to ensure that we can best manage the problems in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u119	I thank the Minister for that answer. Can he also tell us how the phasing-out of gas will take place in the coming years? We are very interested in this, but in particular the Groningen people will be eager to know how domestic demand is going in the coming years. How can we reduce it further? Can the Minister be more specific about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u120	We are going to implement the agreement we made in the energy agreement, which is a very ambitious agreement on energy saving. I have made agreements on this with all the parties with which the energy agreement has been concluded. We have completed this by means of further measures. So we are working with man and power to achieve that ambitious task. At the same time, we are working on a number of other elements: the transition to greater use of heat, the reduction of exports and the delivery of gas in other ways. In the coming years, we will move on to sustainable gas production. A number of methods are currently being developed for this purpose, in the framework of which pilots will be set up in the years to come. So, across the board, we are doing everything we can to achieve two things: firstly, the transition to renewable energy and secondly, the manageable and optimally manageable situation in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u121	Then I have one small question. The Minister talks about the transition to renewable energy. However, I have not yet heard enough about reducing energy consumption, for example through insulation. How will we continue to do this in practice in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u122	That's what I'm talking about when I talk about the 100 petajoule. Then I am talking about the isolation of offices, rental homes and residential properties and the energy-intensive industry. In all areas where energy is consumed, it will be necessary to contribute to reducing energy use and increasing energy efficiency in order to achieve this 100 petajoule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u123	I asked the following question at the round table. If we set an extraction ceiling, will it be fully exploited? This has always been the case, with the exception of the previous year, as a result of the ruling of the Council of State. It has already been said that the Minister's commitment is always to sell up to 33 billion cube. Frankly, I am surprised, because he has a nitrogen plant and another one is being built. Why is the Minister's commitment not to use the conversion capacity at the maximum rate of 85% in this case? I know the Minister will now reply that he will have to reverse the system, but there really is a truth between the maximum use of gas and the minimum use of conversion capacity. There's got to be a way in for this moment, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u124	We don't use the gas to the maximum. We have now reduced the gas from 47, 48 billion to 27, 28 billion compared to 2011 and 2012. So it's not like we'd be trying to sell maximum gas. We have a choice of two options. One possibility is that you start turning on those nitrogen factories, supplemented by Groningen gas. Another possibility is that you stabilize Groningen gas at a certain level and collect all changes with nitrogen. We are looking for what we do most justice to safety. We have two anchors. One anchor is that State surveillance on the Mines says: you should not sit at the level of a warm winter, you should sit in the middle, at the 27 billion. The second anchor we have is that State surveillance on the Mines says: you have to do as little as possible, but not so little that you are going to cause fluctuations, because fluctuations cause more seismicity. That, we believe, is in line with the ruling of the Council of State. That is why we are now at 27 billion m for the gas year 2015/2016. What will happen from October 1st, I cannot predict. We're in the middle of preparations right now. There's gonna be a new extraction plan. New research data will be available. There will be new advice, including from State surveillance of the Mines. On that basis, we shall then decide for the years thereafter. For the moment, we have chosen to sit on a low level, but also on a level where there are not too many fluctuations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u125	In my view, research has still not shown that we are reducing earthquakes at this level, quite the contrary. I think we could be at a much lower level, with limited fluctuations, which would significantly reduce the earthquakes and the risks. Anyway, that investigation's still going on. My question to the Minister is as follows. Why doesn't he use that conversion capacity to the maximum? He'll build a second installation. It doesn't cost nothing. Does he see opportunities to accelerate the construction of that second installation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u126	I don't see a chance to accelerate the construction of the second installation. The questions you ask, of course, are also the questions I ask. If there is conversion in Germany and a new gas plant is being built in Zuidbroek, then I really am not waiting for it to last longer than is necessary. With the same attitude as you, I also do my job. Eventually, I'll draw conclusions from that. I have already outlined the conclusions on conversion. The conclusion with regard to the factory in Zuidbroek is that the schedule that we now have and which is aimed at being ready for that factory in 2019 cannot be accelerated any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u127	I would like to come back to exports, the changeover in Germany and those 1.2 million visits. What exactly are you talking about when you're talking about 1.2 million visits? I've been going through that math once. If you charge €40 per visit, you're at 50 million. We're talking about 30 billion in gas being used there. Then you get to 0.2 cents per cube. That's what it costs once. That brings me back to a completely different picture. If it's 0.2 cents, there's plenty of room to scale up that speed and go for a shorter changeover period. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u128	I would like to make the calculation that needs to be made, with all due respect to Mr Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf O'Dijkgraaf In any case, it is clear that the cost of such a conversion operation is, of course, enormous. In particular, I have indicated that it is an organisational challenge. You have to have people available to make a large number of these visits for ten years, so that people can move from low-caloric to high-caloric gas in a responsible way. This is something that is very important in terms of organisation and in terms of attachment to people. It has been pointed out that the costs are enormous and, of course, they are. That task can be carried out responsibly as I have just indicated. As I just said, I have no indication that there is any acceleration in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u129	Of course, I trust the Minister when he claims that, but is he? I find that difficult as a Member of Parliament. Let's assume 1.2 million visits. If they do four visits a day, you need about 1,500 fte on an annual basis to make that cover. For a market like Germany, I can imagine that you can scale it up. Can the Minister make an attempt to take us on the financial side? As a scientist, I'm used to my sums being checked. Sometimes I'm wrong. Fine, then I'll hear it from the Minister. If you charge €80 per visit, you're at 0.4 cents. Then you're still not talking about huge amounts of money. On the one hand, therefore, I have a question about costs. On the other hand, do I ask the Minister if there is any restriction in the FTEs? Can't we get people to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u130	If the Chamber needs more information, I'm always willing to give it. I am therefore also prepared to provide the information that is relevant to the Chamber in relation to that large conversion operation in Germany and also in relation to operations to be carried out in Belgium and France. I will come up with the information to provide insight into the costs that need to be incurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u131	What is the Minister's timetable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u132	I've now indicated what it's about. I've indicated what can be done and how long it's gonna take. I've drawn the conclusions, and I'm giving them to you. Mr Dijkgraaf asks for more details, converts it into cubic meters of gas and says that it requires a certain number of people. I don't shake things like that. If Mr Dijkgraaf wants that kind of detailed information, it is my job to provide that information. I will therefore gather them as soon as possible and send them to the Chamber as soon as possible. I'm never the retardant, so in this case too, I'll do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u133	I would like to make an appointment about the number of interruptions, because I see that there are people at the microphone again. I understand it's very important. I will also give an opportunity for a final interruption in this block, but I would also like to speed it up. The Minister is working on one part and he has six subjects he wants to address. I would like to give an opportunity for a brief interruption and then the Minister should continue to answer the questions that have been asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u134	Almost all experts agree that less gas extraction results in less compaction and less earthquakes. The minister just demonstrated it. He happened to give us the earthquakes above 1.8 on the Richter scale. That went from eighteen in 2013 to eleven and twelve. Less extraction therefore reduces earthquakes. In those years there was still a huge fluctuation between summer and winter. Then the Minister says: we now have a new idea, win it flat, which is doing much better. I submitted that idea to all the experts in all the closed and open briefings and to everyone I could find. On all sides it was admitted that it is only a gut feeling for which there is no statistical, no empirical and no scientific evidence. There's nothing for it. So if we know, as we have seen in practice, that less gas extraction results in less compactity and less earthquakes, then the Minister must do so as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Why does the Minister now suddenly attach itself to the new idea of flat winning and where does his scientific, empirical or statistical basis come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u135	Mrs Van Tongeren said, in a subtitle, that the 1.8 was chosen by chance, but that is not the case. Experts say that an earthquake of 1.8 on the Richter scale, assuming it's 3,000 meters deep, is palpable. That's why we're using that number. It is, of course, a good thing that, at a time when we are going back from 47, 48 billion cubic metres to 27, 28 billion cubic metres, we almost halve the number of earthquakes. That's what we're all worried about. Then Mrs Van Tongeren talked about the new idea of flat winning, but we always win flat. We've set a certain level each time, and we've now pushed that level down. I have put forward the opportunity to do it differently, not to go from the flat level, but to look for the plains at the nitrogen plants and then to get more or less from the Groningen field depending on the temperature. State surveillance tells me that it believes that a level of production should be chosen which minimises the seismic risk and stabilises it as much as possible, but produces it in such a way as to avoid rapid fluctuations in production. I then asked the State surveillance whether it was possible to indicate exactly the risk of fluctuations and when they occur. It was answered that it was known that more fluctuations lead to more seismicity, but that further research is needed to find out how much more. That research requires more measurements, which you need to be able to compare over time. State surveillance thinks it's gonna take you two to three years to get that information. In those two to three years I have to do it with this advice from the SodM: less gas, we have already done that with the figures I have just mentioned, but not so much less that, depending on the temperature, we get large fluctuations. Seismicity can be the result of this and we are all trying to limit that seismicity. We have achieved everything we need and I have the ambition to do just the right things from now on. That's what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u136	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u137	So it is clear that the Minister agrees with me that less gas extraction gives less compaction and therefore less earthquakes. If you know that for sure and you also know what the misery in Groningen is, then you continue to do so and do not continue with a new, unproven idea, which people say "underbelly, maybe it helps" and which is not defined how long a fluctuation lasts. After all, we always have very high winter wins and very low summer wins, and it has never been proven that this change will result in more earthquakes. What is obvious is that if you win less, you get less earthquakes. The Minister demonstrated this in his own figures Why do we not continue with the proven method of reducing those earthquakes? Why is there another idea now that there's no evidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u138	Less gas extraction leads to less compaction and thus less seismicity. That's true. That is why we have made such a drastic reduction in the level of natural gas extraction. You're saying that because of the lower abdomen, people are thinking about these fluctuations. You can only think that if you consider the SodM as an underbelly. SodM comes to me with an advice and says: you have to be careful, because if you sit too low, you get fluctuations, depending on the temperature, and as a result there could be more seismicity. How much more seismicity that is, we don't know yet. That requires research. That is not an underbelly; these are the opinions of my legal adviser, whom I would like to take very seriously for several reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u139	Very briefly, Mrs. Van Tongeren. Because it's unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u140	I've asked the NAM and the SodM and they both say it's based on a gut feeling. They don't have any proof. Can the Minister respond briefly to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u141	I'm getting an opinion from the State Department of Mines. That SodM says: you have to let gas extraction be as low as possible, but not so low that fluctuations are the result of that, because these fluctuations produce seismicity, something we are trying to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u142	Mrs. Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u143	In addition to the valuable advice of SodM, I also have to take into account the interests of security of supply. I have just gone into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u144	In fact, I would like to go back to the beginning of the debate. We were talking about the decline in gas extraction and how it came about. The minister had a certain picture of how the cabinet set itself up in it. During a working visit to Groningen I heard a statement from the Commissioner of the King, Max van der Berg. He said: it was a bit like pulling the Minister over the coconut mat on his bare knees. Well, I don't have any experience with that, but it seems very uncomfortable. The Minister says he is keen to see a different picture of it and to see it. Then it is very important that he does not go for the filling of a certain standard he sets once. Let's say that 27 billion is set with a certain temperature in mind. If it turns out to be warmer, are we gonna win less? Or are we going to convert less? The Minister is going to have this investigated, but I want to know what his basic attitude is. Does he always want to be able to fill the norm or are we going to win less or convert less when it's warmer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u145	I have already said that the source of less gas is with the Groningers and the Groningen drivers. It is the representatives of the people, also here in the Hague, who have contributed to this and the State surveillance of the Mines has played an important role in it. The cabinet and myself have also worked on it with conviction, because I think it is necessary and that we should do so. So we worked together on that, but we did it in the order I just indicated. I started with the people who experience the misery and those are the people in Groningen. They are also the main driving force behind the reduction of natural gas extraction. You ask what happens when there's a warmer winter. If during the course of a winter it turns out to be warmer than average, it may be possible, if you make optimal use of the possibilities of storage in Norg and the nitrogen plants, to reduce the level of gas extraction even further in that year. I will have that examined and I will be involved in the decision-making process for the next few years, which must take place before 1 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u146	That last part of the answer also gave the Minister in his first term. I have the following question. What is his basic attitude to that? Does the Minister think that in principle you should fill the standard, or does he actually think that, if it does not matter for seismicity, you should win less rather than use less for conversion capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u147	I do not think that we can gain more gas than is justified from the point of view of the safety of the people in Groningen. Exactly how to achieve this and what mix should be made between less gas extraction on the one hand and strengthening houses on the other is also linked to the need for gas from the point of view of security of supply. In order to achieve this, therefore, an additional nitrogen plant is being built and the measures that I have just outlined in relation to the reduction of exports are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u148	I would like to come back to reducing exports. For this, all kinds of households in Germany and Belgium need to have their gas burner converted. I am simply not convinced that the greatest urgency is being put into this. The Minister says that we will not start conversion until 2020 in Germany and only in 2024 with conversion in Belgium. People who have a central heating boiler are already being visited once a year by a maintenance technician. He checks the résumé kettle every year. That same maintenance technician could start rebuilding that boiler by now, couldn't he? It's called putting it in the boiler of another gas block, I've been told. I've also been told that that's about an hour's work per kettle. Why doesn't that start right now? Why wait until 2020 and 2024 respectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u149	I've answered that question three times, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u150	That question has been asked before, Miss Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u151	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I should clarify the question. The Minister says: we do not start because we do not have the people for it. I'm saying that maintenance engineers come home to people every year. They can start with it. Moreover, the Minister acts as if there is a shortage of staff. Well, I think we have high unemployment not only in the Netherlands, but also in Germany and Belgium. So it's a question of re-training people. This can also happen in the relatively short term. So why do we not start in Germany until 2020, and not until 2024 in Belgium?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u152	I have said that I have the ambition that this also happens in Belgium and France between 2020 and 2030. I have outlined the scale of what needs to be done in Germany between 2020 and 2030, and I have also outlined the conditions attached to it. I also said: if you want to get that started, you have to make sure that you have enough qualified people to do so. You also need to have enough experience with pilots and you need to set up a whole organization for that. That is the answer I have given several times and I can therefore repeat it now. I can add that Mr Dijkgraaf has asked for additional and more detailed information on this point. I am, of course, prepared to give her the information that the Chamber wants, also more detailed information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u153	My question is about Langelo. The Minister replied to questions I had specifically asked about this. The Minister said that things started there in 1996. I was allowed to visit Langelo a few months ago. I've been told that it's all been extended and renewed in a good way. So there's a lot going on in Langelo. It is completely up-to-date there, so that one can store the gas in a good way. The people who live in the area above the gas storage are, of course, quite concerned. They also run into the fact that there are cracks in their homes, and other things. They want to be heard. Now, fortunately, there will be a hotline. That's what the Minister said. So they may be able to go there. Wouldn't it be wise, however, to just take a zero reading there? That way we can be sure that it doesn't go wrong there. We would very much like us to be able to use this storage in the future, precisely in order to get less gas from the Groningen field. This is important for the decision taken by the Minister later this year. So would the Minister like to have a zero reading there anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u154	I can't do a zero reading for something that's been going on since 1996. I'm sure I can track the large-scale storage. I can make measurements year by year, and I can get those measurements done in an intensity that is necessary to get a good picture of them. I can also ensure that the results of these measurements are adequately responded to and planned. That's happening right now. I will continue to follow that, because I believe that storage in Norg plays an important role in the whole of the Groningen gas field. The concerns of the people in that area must be taken equally seriously, and we must keep a close eye on the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u155	How can these people influence that themselves? The Security Research Council has said: involve people more. At the moment when people in the area are worried, where can they report? How exactly can they be kept informed of all developments and when they notice that things are going wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u156	I'll consult with the National Coordinator. He is our advanced post, with his organization there in the area and here in The Hague. I will consult with him to see whether there is a need for additional consultation and information specifically with regard to storage in Norg and the Langelo area. I'll ask him to provide for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u157	Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u158	I was working on energy saving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u159	There's been a lot of interruptions. I therefore assume that only the remaining questions will be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u160	I will try to do so in your spirit, Madam President. Mr Wassenberg asked how we could further reduce the gas demand. He also asked that question in an interruption, so I have already answered that question. Mr Vos asked about Groningen gas as a backup for wind and solar energy. Mr Vos knows that if we use gas in the Netherlands for our electricity production, we use high-caloric gas. If Mr Vos's message is that he wants us to make the transition to renewable energy as soon as possible, but that during that transition the emphasis should be on gas because it is the fossil energy carrier with the least environmental impact, I agree with him. I think gas, wherever it comes from, will play an important role in the energy transition. We have already discussed the judgments of the judges. I may have finished the first part with this. The second concerns the research to be carried out and its monitoring. A lot of research is being done there in Groningen. I have said before that it is a unique situation there. We brought the scientists together, all focused on the situation in Groningen. In particular, it was the NAM who had to do so because it was her responsibility. She is also addressed by SodM. A lot of expertise has been gathered from the Netherlands and from around the world to ensure that the investigations to be carried out there are carried out. It has been arranged that the investigation will be conducted with the involvement of SodM, so that it can follow the case during the trial. It can therefore properly assess the result. Last year, we set up a scientific guidance committee to accompany and review the research carried out by the NAM. I asked that committee to monitor the quality, completeness and independence of the results of those investigations. The scientific committee consists of Dutch and international experts. We're gonna take this one step further. Together with SodM, we are now working to set up a new knowledge network that will then come under separate, independent scientific supervision. That new knowledge network should gather as much information as possible in an entirely independent way and make that information available to anyone who wants to work with it. However, we must realise that the NAM is not responsible for carrying out investigations. Furthermore, the NAM has a lot of technical computing power and has collected equipment with which complex calculations can be made. The NAM invested a lot of money in that. Every year it spends tens of millions on research which it is asked for and which is necessary. I am convinced that she is doing that research very seriously and conscientiously, that the interaction between the NAM, the ministry, the SodM and the scientific supervisors is good, and that the results are good. All this does not alter the fact that we are in the process of setting up this new knowledge network under independent scientific supervision. We will make this work as well as possible in conjunction with the responsibility of the NAM. That's what scientific research is all about. Mrs Van Tongeren asked how the independence of the SodM has been secured since the OVV report. Following the OVV report, we submitted a legislative proposal to the Chamber in mid-December. The Chamber will first deal with this in writing and then with me in plenary. I would like to address all aspects of the bill, especially the independence of the SodM. Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about the role of the NAM in the investigations. That's what I've been working on. Mrs Van Tongeren asked how transparency on uncertainties towards citizens has improved since the report of the Research Council on Security. We have made sure that the information available to people is also available on websites. Of this, Mr Bosman says: you should actually have one point where all this information is available. I'll see what we can do with that suggestion. I can imagine. If you're interested in that kind of complicated scientific information, it's not such a big deal to go to two, three places. But to do justice to what Mr Bosman says, we have two things to do. One: see if we can collect it. Secondly, to see whether we can make it interesting not only for the experts but also for the citizens. How can we make these complex calculations and the reports that we put on the Internet useful to the interested citizens, so that they can do something with them? There will therefore have to be a translation of this data into data that is useful to citizens. Following on from Mr Bosman's suggestion, I will look into how I can put both parts into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u161	I am very pleased with this commitment. It is often about the open data and not the processed data. This allows others, who are developing apps or all kinds of other things, to use materials to move forward. I therefore ask the Minister to consider whether not only the processed form but also the coarse form can be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u162	Yes, I understand. I agree. Mrs Van Tongeren and others have said that we need tilt meters. Tilt meters aren't an end in themselves to me. I am not going to tell the experts which meters they should or should not buy, where they should place them, in what numbers they should and how they should work with that information. However, I believe that those responsible should ensure that the data we need are collected. The NAM has that responsibility. She has drawn up a study and a measurement plan for everything that is happening in the Groningenveld. SodM is involved and examines what decisions are taken by the NAM. The NAM uses different measurement techniques. One of these measuring techniques concerns tilt meters, but you also have other techniques. You can also obtain the same information with other instruments or combinations of instruments as with tiltmeters. The NAM has chosen to use instruments that do not include these tiltmeters. SodM has assessed that and approved it. That means I'm letting it go the way it is: a lot of good equipment has been put in the right place to make sure that the information we need becomes available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u163	The NAM says, the NAM says, the NAM says: it is crazy that the NAM is so strongly in charge of the investigation of its own gas extraction. There's no way you're gonna find that an operator who gets the profits out of his activities is leading the investigation, too. Translate that to average college. A part-time professor who has a main job at a company already has problems with his credibility when he is paid one day a week by his company at that university. The Minister is right to say that a committee has been set up, but Mr Houtenbos, Mr Van der Gaag and Mr Sintubin from Leuven, among others, object to the approach of the entire research programme. The tilt meters are about mainstream technology in geology. Why is all this being pushed aside? Because the NAM says so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u164	That's a misunderstanding. Since the NAM wins the natural gas there, it is responsible for what is happening there. That's why she has to pay for the damage. The NAM is also the party that has to come up with a extraction plan, which gets directions to investigate things, and which is followed by SodM and the scientific team I've just described. The NAM therefore has a responsibility to ensure that the information becomes available because of natural gas extraction. On the basis of her own expertise, she looks at the techniques by which this information can best be collected. This is then tested again, among others by the SodM, who also did so in this case. The SodM also agreed with NAM's decisions regarding the use of measuring instruments. If the NAM thinks that we are getting good information with these instruments, and if the SodM agrees with that, I'm not getting any other signal from the scientific supervisors, then I'm not going to say: you shouldn't take these meters but you should take those meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u165	No, but you need to take the lead on the research program completely away from the NAM. I do not want to question the expertise of the NAM at all, but the leadership of this research must leave the NAM. The SodM and the Tcbb have argued for tiltmeters in the past. I therefore ask the Minister once again to bring greater independence into this research programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u166	I told you, we're setting up that independent research program with SodM. We will also ensure independent scientific supervision of this. As I have indicated, there is already scientific monitoring, in which we have gathered experts from the Netherlands and abroad. SodM has looked at what the NAM has invented with regard to placing meters and it has found that agreement. For me there is no reason to say: one meter is, the other meter is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u167	I want to go back to November 2012. Then the NAM was ordered to install those tilt meters. They had to be installed by March 2013. At that time, there was no new decision stating that there was no need to do so. What did the Minister then do to ensure that SodM made sure that the measurement and study plan at the time was implemented? I asked that question a moment ago during my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u168	Of course, new data will be available all the time. As we all know, a lot has happened since 2012. When we started drawing up all these research programmes in January 2013, little was available to us. We all had to collect them. So that's what we've been doing. This includes a large-scale application of measurement techniques. There is now much more to measurements than in the past. That happens in all kinds of places and in all kinds of ways. With regard to its precise technical implementation, the NAM has established a set-up, which has been found by the State surveillance agreement. Then it is not my role as Minister to say: I think things should be different. I'm not gonna do that. There are different techniques. There are also different interested parties in the technique; one sells it and the other sells it. I think that should be judged by those who know it. In this case, I am sailing on the advice I received from SodM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u169	We also have so-called negotiating supervision in other sectors. This was in November 2012. Before the Minister became active on this file, it was said that this had to be done. The question was negotiated for four years prior to the leaking of e-mails: whether or not supervision and if so, in what form? A plan has finally been drawn up, but the NAM has managed to do so to this day. I agree with the SP colleague that the NAM here clearly determines what is being investigated or not, and that there is negotiation supervision. GroenLinks wants that to end. We have seen where that leads, for example in Moerdijk and in other places with heavy chemical industry. Why does the minister keep hiding behind "The NAM says," "The NAM wants" and "We consult with the NAM"? After six years of negotiations, SodM finally agreed against. That doesn't give the Groningen any prospect of safety, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u170	It also gives no prospect of security to constantly question the integrity of the NAM. In my opinion, the NAM has proved to be a reliable partner. What needs to be done in Groningen in order to improve the situation, I do, among other things, in collaboration with the NAM. I think she is doing the right thing with her data collection efforts. If the NAM fills out its measurement programme in a certain way, then I think it is important that that is assessed by State surveillance, but if that assessment is then positive, then I have no reason to intervene. I'm not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u171	I have another question about the research and, above all, about the role of the NAM in this. If you want a good outcome, first you have to ask the right questions. The question is whether the NAM is capable of doing so. So I think it is very good that the Minister says that there will be a new knowledge network for independent research. I would like to be kept very well informed of what is happening. I would also like to ask one very clear question: does that also mean that the NAM provides all the data that it has at its disposal, without hesitation? The NAM relies too quickly on commercial secrecy or competitiveness. If such an independent knowledge institute does not have all the information it should have at its disposal, you are nowhere yet. I am also considering a motion on this point, so please give me an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u172	The information is collected with the aim of making appropriate policy conclusions. Of course, that information is disclosed to the SodM and to me, but we also have the line that we make information accessible to the public as much as possible by posting it on the internet. Furthermore, I believe that we should make the information posted on the Internet manageable for citizens, so I will also pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u173	It is very important that information be handled by citizens, but I ask whether all this knowledge is delivered without any restraint to that knowledge institute, because that is what this is about. This may also require more information than the citizens. The point is that such a knowledge institute should have all the information the NAM can provide. Business secrecy and competitiveness must not play any role in this; it is too important for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u174	More than that: the knowledge institute will not only be provided with information from the NAM for evaluation. That knowledge institute will also have to do and have to do research itself. On the basis of information gathered in all possible ways, this knowledge institute will have to provide advice necessary for good policy decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u175	Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u176	Mrs. Van Veldhoven can go first, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u177	That's fine. Mrs van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u178	Thank you very much, Mr Vos. There was just a discussion about a preference for a particular technology, which I do not think we need to have as Members of Parliament. The minister mentioned the NAM as a responsible partner. Okay, but we also need to be honest about the responsibility of the NAM. To the shareholders, this is: within the frameworks set by the government, to obtain as much return as possible. The crucial question is whether the information on which the mining decision we take is based comes from an independent investigation. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u179	The fact that you want to make a profit is no reason to be treated with mistrust. Fortunately, our entire society hangs together with companies and entrepreneurs who want to make a profit. That is a very good basis for socially responsible functioning. The same goes for the NAM. The NAM wants to make a profit, but the NAM also wants to conduct its business in a responsible manner. This is also being watched from all sides: by us in the Ministry, by state surveillance. I have just spoken about the independent scientific research that has already been organised and its monitoring, but also about the knowledge institute that will have to be set up. So that's happening in all kinds of ways. The NAM also plays a constructive role in this. I couldn't accept anything else from the NAM either. The NAM also has that social responsibility and must ensure that it genuinely delivers to us the things we need to be able to properly assess its actions. We are able to assess that action in many ways. On the basis of my experience in recent years, I am convinced that the NAM does this conscientiously and with integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u180	Mrs Van Veldhoven, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u181	The Minister shouldn't misunderstand me. I'm not saying the NAM doesn't. I just think we should look closely at the responsibility of the NAM. That is a different responsibility from the political responsibility we have here. It is therefore important that the information on which we base our mining decision has been obtained independently. I ask the Minister whether he shares that principle and whether he intends to ensure that the decision on the knowledge network he is talking about can be based on that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u182	This would mean that the decisions we have taken so far have not been taken in a responsible manner. That's not right. Those decisions were taken on the basis of a extraction plan made by NAM. That extraction plan must also underpin the NAM in a variety of ways. That's what the NAM research does. That investigation will be followed by state surveillance. In the end, the results are also assessed by state supervision. I therefore believe that we have been able to do this in a responsible way so far. I also think that, in addition to what is already available, it is important to have a separate knowledge unit independent of the NAM, which is under independent scientific supervision and can also provide information. That's what we're setting up right now. I think that's a valuable addition to what we already had available. With regard to the NAM, I would also like to say that this company has the ambition to function socially responsiblely. That's my belief. That's what the NAM is trying to do. What needs to be done for this, the NAM does by itself, on the notification of the SodM or on the declaration of me, from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u183	Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u184	Could I just ask the Minister not to put words in his mouth to the Members of Parliament? After all, I did not insinuate that in any way. I just insisted on keeping an eye on the separation of roles. That's what I wanted to put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u185	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u186	I think there are about 0.5 million people living in Groningen. If I asked them if they thought the NAM was socially responsible, I think about 0.5 million people would say no. I understand the Minister feels differently about that. If I am being very honest, I can also follow the Minister a long way, but the point is that we regulate supervision independently. We do that for the butcher; he does not approve his own flesh. We also do that for car manufacturers, which emit soot particles. We also do this for nuclear installations; the monitoring of nuclear installations is also independent. That's what the Labour Party wants for the NAM. This applies not only to the Labour Party but also to all previous speakers in this Chamber. It is like the issue of exports: almost all the speakers in this Chamber are asking the Minister to reduce exports more quickly, because it must be possible to do so. The minister says he doesn't have any indications.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u187	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u188	I note the same thing on this subject. We all say that we want independent supervision, but the Minister keeps going around it. My question is why he cannot take more account of the wishes of the majority of the spokesmen in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u189	Mr Vos says: the Minister keeps going about it. What am I talking about? I have said that I think it is important for the NAM to be able to do its job in independence. This independence has also been advised by the Security Research Council. In mid-December, we submitted a legislative proposal to the Chamber on this matter. This is, among other things, about this aspect. I will be happy to discuss this with the Chamber, both through a written round and in a plenary debate here. I'm totally open to that. Mr Vos made another comment on the responsibility of the NAM. If I felt that the NAM was not socially responsible, I would immediately appeal to her. I believe that a requirement for an organisation such as the NAM, whose activities have a very large, currently also negative impact on the living environment of Groningen. I therefore believe that I should have the conviction that the NAM is always doing its best to act socially responsiblely. I have that conviction. If I don't have it, I'll act immediately. I don't care about anything. Why are you suggesting that I'm twisting around something? Why would I wanna go around something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u190	I'm a representative of the people. The people of Groningen simply want independent monitoring of gas extraction. Now it is so arranged that the NAM does so itself and that there is a scientific review. We will discuss this further in the discussion of the legislative proposal. However, it is clear that we are not satisfied with the answers we have received at the moment. I have the following question about exports. The Minister says that he has no indication that it can be phased out in those 15 years, that it can be accelerated. Is he willing to look for indications through an independent investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u191	I have said what I can say about exports. Furthermore, the supervision is not exercised by NAM. Of course, that is not the case. The NAM is the natural gas operator in Groningen. The supervision of the NAM is exercised by the State surveillance of the Mines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u192	I hear you say that you have not received an answer to your question, Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u193	The Minister says: I said what I said about it. My question is: are you prepared to carry out an investigation into the possibilities of reducing gas exports abroad over a period of less than 15 years? That's my question. I didn't get an answer to that. The Minister can answer that question with "yes" or "no." Then I know where we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u194	Mr Vos's statement was also that the NAM is supervising. I just mentioned that I didn't. The NAM doesn't supervise. The NAM is being monitored. This is done by State supervision of the Mines, which is also capable of doing so. We have come to the Chamber with a legislative proposal in which we have included further provisions on this matter. Moreover, we are currently greatly expanding the number of employees of State surveillance on the Mines. The NAM is therefore supervised by the State surveillance of the Mines. We just talked about the export. Mr Vos is now asking a new question. I would also like to comment on that. I have indicated to the Chamber that I am prepared to come to the Chamber with the additional information requested by Mr Dijkgraaf. Following Mr Vos' comment, I will add an external assessment of that information and then send it all to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u195	Please continue. I think you've now joined the "damage housing market" section. Is that right? Mr Dijkgraaf has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u196	I think that is a good commitment in itself. I've asked about the costs and capacity. I hear Mr Vos asking about the acceleration options. I share that question, as does a large part of the Chamber. I interpret the Minister's commitment in this way, but I would like to see it confirmed that the reaction to the Chamber, including its external review, is also about whether it can be accelerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u197	I've indicated what's possible. Further information has been requested by Mr Dijkgraaf. I'll give it to you. That information is intended to indicate what needs to be done and why it is reasonable that it should be done in the period 2020-2030. The Chamber has the idea that we should be able to do it faster. That is why I will have the information, which is a clarification of what I have now transferred to the Chamber, reviewed externally and I will give it all to the Chamber. The Chamber can then draw conclusions from this, as I will do myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u198	I was afraid I understood the minister correctly. It was different from what I just said. Now I understand that what I am asking for is coming to the Chamber and that it is being validated externally whether it is actually costing 50 million or 100 million, how many cents it per miss how many FTEs. Of course, the Chamber has a much more far-reaching question: are there any, given the facts, possibilities for acceleration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u199	I'm not going to suggest that there are acceleration possibilities. I have indicated how large-scale this operation is, that it must be carried out responsibly and that, in my opinion, we have made reasonable agreements on it. So I am not going to suggest in this debate that it can be done faster. I do believe, however, that, on the basis of the question put by the Chamber, I should do two things: to provide more detailed information and to have that information evaluated externally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u200	Mr Vos, only if that commitment is not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u201	No, Mr President, the commitment is not clear. The example of my colleague's calculation is, of course, very enlightening. The question is whether the Minister is prepared to investigate the possibilities of accelerating the phasing-out of our exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u202	I have said what I can say about that. I don't think there's any material difference. I have indicated that a lot is going to happen to exports in a relatively short period of time. I'll have that substantiated in front of the Chamber. I will also have it assessed externally. I do not think that the material difference with what Mr Vos is asking is present, other than that I do not wish to suggest to myself that it is reasonably possible to speed up what I have said. So I do not think it is up to me to say that we should investigate something that I do not think can be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u203	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u204	I'll get to the damage. The spokesmen have talked a lot about the damage. In doing so, they have constantly cited the contour map. It has also been said that it is very strange that damage outside the contours on the contour card is not compensated. That is not the case. That contour map has nothing to do with damage. The contour map is intended to indicate where the risk of seismicity, earthquakes, is greatest and how it should be estimated. On the basis of the contour map, we must therefore assess the risk and decide on the reinforcement notice. That's what the map's for. If there's damage outside the contours, it doesn't matter. Damage caused by earthquakes must be compensated. The contour map is a tool to best assess risks and make reinforcement decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u205	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u206	I suggest the Minister finish this. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt. Are you ready, Minister? No, I think you're just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u207	This was my introductory sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u208	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u209	I hope that the misunderstanding about the contour map that exists in the Chamber has been eliminated. Now it is also a question of what damage can be compensated and what damage can not be compensated. It starts with the mining damage. That word is also spoken by spokesmen. You have mining damage in two forms. One form is that accidents occur in the discharge of extracted gas. That could be a problem. The other problem that may arise is soil motion. So you've got soil motion and drainage. Both are caused by the person carrying out the mining activity. So he's also responsible for the damage. There are also two cases of soil movement. One case is caused by earthquakes, the other by soil descent. In the event of earthquakes, it's perfectly clear. If gas extraction causes earthquakes, the damage must be compensated. If soil degradation causes damage or, for example, requires water boards to reduce water levels, for which they have to incur costs, these costs must be reimbursed. Soil decline occurs only over a large area. So it doesn't make sense that you get damage as a result of soil degradation. If it does cause damage in one way or another, that damage must be compensated. Bottoms down is a discussion. Research has shown that claims in a number of cases did not have to be met by NAM because the damage was not caused by natural gas extraction. That investigation is now being validated. We're gonna see if we can come up with the same conclusions or other conclusions. In addition, we make one contact at the National Coordinator Groningen for people reporting damage due to soil decline. So he can make sure that people with that damage are treated properly. We have organized this at the moment, but the starting point remains: any damage caused by mining activity, in this case the extraction of natural gas, must be compensated, regardless of the name you give it and regardless of whether it is inside or outside the contours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u210	We have heard back from the work visit to Groningen and at other times, that it is not standard that damage inspections are carried out if you do not fall within the contour map. So as a resident, you really have to do your best to get a look at the place and arrange it through the Centrum Safe Living if you have any damage. And if you're inside such a contour card, you're also entitled to a number of arrangements. If you just fall out because the border happens to be running across your street, very arbitrary, as is the case in Bedum, you just have a problem. The CDA believes it is important that everyone is helped with damage. How's the minister gonna organize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u211	We're talking about damage. I have indicated that damage must be compensated, regardless of where you suffer that damage. We can't let that matter. So we have some clarity about that. For that compensation, these contours are not important. If the damage is not included in a number of cases, as Mrs Mulder says, it is on the basis of the experience gained so far, namely that the damage to the soil outside the contours would in all cases be damage not caused by natural gas extraction. This has led to a certain way of working. What we are doing now, i.e. validating the research and making it a separate point of contact with the National Coordinator, can lead to the right decisions being taken in these cases, including as regards the inclusion of damages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u212	Finally, Mrs Mulder. Mrs. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u213	Yes, I was just waiting for the last sentence the Minister wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u214	I'll do that after you get back, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u215	It does matter. If you are within the contour card, you can go somewhere, at least at the Centre Safe Living, and you can use the different arrangements. If you're out there, none of that's the case. In any case, this is how it seems to me, unless the Minister says here: no, everyone will be able to use these reinforcement arrangements; that is not a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u216	In terms of damage, it's no problem at all. As far as reinforcement is concerned, we still have decisions to make. I'll come back to that later. That reinforcement is going to start in the core area of Loppersum, where at least everything has to happen. That's where it starts and then it gets worked out. How far we go with this and with what intensity, is currently being reviewed and developed by the National Coordinator. This will also have to be done on the basis of further inspections in individual cases, which are still to be carried out. Whether a damage falls outside or within the contours does not matter for the damages. It doesn't matter for the Centre for Safe Living, which is responsible for the settlement of claims. There are therefore no differences in this respect. I have just gone over the reinforcements and I will come back to the increase in value later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u217	Very briefly, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u218	The Minister actually says that all the arrangements that exist can simply be applied and the contour map has no influence on that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u219	I chose my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u220	Please continue... Oh, no, Mrs. Klever. Or are you negotiating the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u221	The minister says it doesn't matter if you live inside or outside the contour card for the damage settlement. Then what are the contour cards for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u222	That's what I just said. Those contour maps are there to assess the risks and to be able to take the reinforcement decisions on the basis of that risk assessment. In order to control the problem in Groningen, two things have to be done. The most important thing is to reduce the production of natural gas. The second is reinforcement of houses. Which houses exactly, in what area and with what urgency? In order to estimate that, you need the contour map. That's the function of that contour map.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u223	If you're outside the contour map and you're damaged by natural gas extraction, don't you think it's necessary to strengthen your home? Surely, in the past, it has been shown that natural gas extraction could damage you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u224	The reinforcement is not meant to prevent damage. Fortified houses can also be damaged. The reinforcements are aimed at safety. Mrs Mulder, like Mr Smaling, spoke in this connection about the use of the Centre for Safe Living, and I have already mentioned this. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked if I would anchor in a new Mining Act that mining damage should always be compensated, regardless of the cause or location. I have already dealt with this and there is no need to amend the Mining Act. The Mining Act is clear. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked if I could give a discretionary power to the National Coordinator Groningen with regard to damages. I do not know whether it was Mrs Van Veldhoven or Mrs Van Tongeren, but I think Mrs Van Tongeren said 31 complex damage cases have not yet been dealt with. I don't know what Mrs. Van Tongeren is talking about, so I'm recommending her information. I do know that there were 195 complex damage cases in the NAM. I talked to the Chamber about that. The Chamber gave a strong ruling on this matter by way of a motion for a resolution. These cases should be dealt with before the end of 2015. Of those 195 cases, 186 were handled. For that last nine, the NAM made a final offer, according to what it considered reasonable to do. That has not yet led to settlement. What could be done in reasonable terms, even before that last nine, has, in my opinion, been done. I myself have concluded that all these complex damage cases have been dealt with properly and with great effort. So much for Mrs Van Tongeren's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u225	Before you go any further, another interruption on the previous point by Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u226	The discretion of the National Coordinator Groningen was a short point where the minister passed quickly. This had nothing to do with the complex cases referred to by Mrs Van Tongeren. It's about the harrowing cases. For example, someone gets a job in Gelderland and would like to move, but cannot lose their home. That example referred to the National Coordinator Groningen himself as a difficult case, because it does not fit within the committee poignant cases. According to the Minister, does he also have any discretion to solve situations in which people are really ground between the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u227	Mrs Van Veldhoven is now talking about the buying-in scheme. I would not really come to that until later, but I can also go into that now. The poignant cases also include complex cases in which multiple backgrounds, such as the financial background, the psychological background and the complexity of the various causes, have led to this situation. That is what the Committee on Special Situations is about. It can react in different ways and budget is available for that. The committee can also make various proposals. One way to solve situations is to buy houses. This has happened in a few dozen cases. There are situations that do not fall under the poignant circumstances, but which you would like to look at in the sphere of buy-back in order to contribute to a solution in this way. That is also necessary, because there is a real problem in the housing market in that area. I've had that investigated all the time. I have shared the results of the research with the Chamber and I have drawn my conclusions on this. More needs to be done than we are doing at the moment to ensure that the housing market in that area functions as in similar areas elsewhere in the country. We, and in particular the National Coordinator Groningen, are looking at what we can do in the field of buy-back. There are different approaches. The first is that if the strengthening of the property costs more than the value of the property, it is reasonable to discuss with the resident, the owner, whether it is not better to sell the property and get something else to replace it. The second relates to the harrowing cases. The possibility of purchasing in these cases should also be maintained. The third possibility is that there is a personal need. A resident can, as it were, be trapped in his home, when he actually has to leave because, for example, he has been given work elsewhere. He then wants to sell his property and does his best for it, but it doesn't work. Then there is a personal need to act. We are now considering whether we can find a solution for such cases which will enable us to buy-back. The buying-in arrangements for the three categories that I have just mentioned are the culmination of a series of measures known to the Chamber. We are doing much more to improve the functioning of the housing market. This buy-back scheme in itself must not distort the housing market, it must not accelerate the shrinkage in the region, and it must also focus on the areas where the owners-inhabitants face the most risks. So that is in the core area, which can be read from, among other things, the contour map.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u228	The Minister talks a lot about the buying-in scheme in the broadest sense, but I am glad that he actually points out that in cases where the personal situation does not exactly fit in with the rules we have devised, there is a human dimension. I think it's important to offer that safety net to the Groningers. I thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u229	I would also like to take a look with the Minister outside the contours, namely the province of Drenthe. The Minister has just promised in the debate that the people at the gas storage in Norg may address the National Coordinator Groningen. I welcome that, which is an important commitment. However, in reply to my parliamentary questions, the Minister also indicated that, although there were 80 cases of damage, that was the situation at the end of last year, but that they actually had nothing to do with gas storage. My question, and the answer would be a motion, is whether the damages cases could also be part of the contact with the National Coordinator Groningen and whether the Minister is prepared to at least look with the coordinator to see if a compensation agreement can be drawn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u230	I don't see exactly how we're gonna do that with regard to storage in Norg. The National Coordinator Groningen pays attention to that point. I think that storage in Norg is of such magnitude and such importance, and will continue to be so in the years to come, that the extra attention we give to it is justified. I will look into the problems that arise. The National Coordinator Groningen will review and assess this and advise me on it. I shall be happy to inform the Chamber of the conclusions we have drawn on this basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u231	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment on this point. I'm also looking forward to seeing the information. However, I did not hear him mention the words damage and damages agreement. If he says that he wishes to discuss this point explicitly with the National Coordinator Groningen, that is enough for me, or else I will consider tabling a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u232	I'm not gonna say that the National Coordinator Groningen shouldn't do certain things or necessarily do them. He must do what is necessary to give the attention these people need in this area. He's quite capable of judging that for himself. I will look into what is coming out of that and I will also include Mrs Dik-Faber's wise words in the assessment of the National Coordinator's analysis. A number of spokesmen, such as Mrs Mulder and Mr Vos, spoke about the independence of the Safe Living Centre. I think we can see that the Centre for Safe Living is working well at the moment. The Safe Living Centre is an organisation set up in Groningen, because we felt that the damage handling should be placed remotely from the NAM, but we also felt that the NAM remains responsible for the damage handling. The NAM had to fulfil that responsibility by arranging the relationship with the Centre Secure Living properly. The NAM has also made private agreements with the two companies that together form the Centre for Safe Living. We then put the Centre for Safe Living under a committee of supervision. We are now also going to involve the National Coordinator Groningen in this monitoring to see if all this works properly. I've judged that myself. I've had a number of conversations, and I've also been monitoring their reports and working methods. I am convinced that there too they are doing their best to do justice to the people of Groningen. If there's an injury case, then it's not like you have to go to court to get what you want, as one of the spokesmen suggested. No, if you have any damage, an expert will be sent immediately by the Center for Safe Living. If it comes to the conclusion that there has been damage caused by natural gas extraction, then there will be no judge or anyone else involved. Then a proposal is made to compensate for that damage. I think this is happening with good intent, with good organization. They also stick very well to what customer satisfaction is. At the moment that customer satisfaction is decent; 7.1 is given on average. I think it can always be better there. The people in Groningen have been facing a problem for years that also makes them suspicious. The performance must be in such a way, including from the Centre for Safe Living, that confidence is regained. That performance will have to be very careful. That's what the center realizes. The people who work for the centre are also trained and followed in it. This will also have to be done in the near future in order to ensure that where there are still conflicts and where things are not good enough, things are getting better. I am convinced that through the leadership of the centre and also under the supervision that we have organised there and with the forthcoming involvement of the National Coordinator Groningen, the good practice has been found and will be further improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u233	Mr. Vos, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u234	The Minister states that the Centre for Safe Living is functioning well. The Groningen gas ombudsman, set up by the Minister at the request of the Chamber, reports that the number of complaints increased by 50% in 2015 compared to the previous year. How are these two facts compatible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u235	I don't have the numbers up to the last detail on hand, but I'm just going to paint a picture. So far, 58,000 reports of damage have been received. Last year, I believe, 15,000 reports of damage were received. The number of complaints lodged with the Independent Councilman has increased in the order of 80 to 150. I think that is an important point which we should pay attention to. However, if I look at the number of complaints lodged there, the number of complaints lodged with the Centre for Safe Living and the number of claims that occur, I think it is feasible to achieve the further improvements that we have in mind. Mr President, perhaps you would like to give me an opportunity, on the basis of information given to me by my colleagues, to make the figures even more precise. The number of claims at the Safe Living Centre was 18,000 in 2014. That rose to 34,000 in 2015. There is therefore an 89% increase. The number of complaints received by the Independent Councilman in 2014 was 175. This increased to 276 in 2015, which means an increase of 57%. The increase in the number of complaints is therefore less than the increase in the number of claims. Nevertheless, I consider every complaint, every signal, but also the conclusions drawn by the Independent Councilman from all these complaints, to be of great importance. It is an incentive to the Centre for Safe Living and all other interested parties to try to operate in such a way that there will be no more complaints at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u236	How does the Minister assess the finding that time limits are exceeded, and this observation is also made by the Groninger gasombudsman............................................................................................................................................................................................................... What's the Minister gonna do about this? The PvdA does not consider this acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u237	Is Mr Vos now presenting a real picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u238	That's the image of the Groninger gas ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u239	External partners systematically look at the customer satisfaction of the people involved in the Centre for Safe Living. On average, a 7.1 is given. It's not 8, it's not 9, it's a 7.1. I can do better than that. This is also acknowledged and is also being worked on to do better. It is not the case that all valuers are blunt, but no doubt some valuers will not function properly enough. They will either have to do their job better or have to be replaced. Certainly, in a number of cases, the deadlines will also be exceeded. At the Safe Living Centre, however, I see the general picture that is presented within six weeks with an assessment of the situation on the ground. To the extent that there is a delay, it is, understandably, often the responsibility of those concerned. They have received an offer, but wonder whether they should accept it or ask for a counter-expertise. There is often more delay than at the Safe Living Centre. We do not have direct control over the delay of those involved, but the operation of the Safe Living Centre is. I think it is very important that the leadership of the Safe Living Centre has the ambition to continue to do the work better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u240	Mrs. Mulder, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u241	I have asked the Minister to what extent it is possible to make the Centre Safe Living more independent of the NAM. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the NAM and the Safe Living Centre? What possibilities does he see for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u242	He seems good to me to keep following how it works in practice. The National Coordinator Groningen will be involved. I had a separate supervisory committee for the Centre Safe Living, but I'm looking into whether it can be replaced by supervision by the National Coordinator Groningen. Perhaps there has to be a collusion. I am not quite out of that; I will come back to that. The National Coordinator Groningen will examine whether things can be improved in practice between NAM and Centrum Secure Living. My picture at the moment is that the Centre for Safe Living is at a sufficient distance and operates in a responsible manner. We are keen to achieve these improvements as quickly as possible where it can be done. I do not have the idea that the Centrum Safe Living in its functioning somehow, consciously or unconsciously, is being opposed by the NAM. To the extent that this is the case, I would hear that from the National Coordinator Groningen and I would also understand with him about solutions to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u243	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u244	Good to hear the National Coordinator is involved. I'm curious when we'll get more information on what exactly that's gonna look like. Does the Minister think that it is now sufficiently transparent for the outside world? Of course, a number of documents are not really public and that feeds the mistrust again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u245	The only documents I know are not public are the contracts concluded between the NAM and the companies CED and Arcadis. These are private-law parties which have entered into private-law contracts with each other, and that is not what is public. For us, other questions are relevant, namely how the Centrum Secure Living works, what is the mission of the Centrum Secure Living and whether this is good in theory and in practice. I have just said that I think it is a good idea in theory, that there is a lot going on in practice and that we will see if we can do even better, including with regard to the relationship with the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u246	The operation of the Safe Living Centre was discussed extensively during the round table on gas extraction. Mr Vos just had a few comments on the Ombudsman. Among other things, it was found that the Safe Living Centre was still functioning reasonably initially, during the first eight months. It was then given a 7.1. You can call that reasonable or you can call it good. I call it reasonable. However, in the last four months in particular, it has deteriorated dramatically. The last few months of 2015 have been much worse. Then it is very easy to say: we have a 7.1 so it is good. Perhaps it would still be useful for the Minister to consider whether the Safe Living Centre is now functioning as it should. The reason given was that a person who had a complaint in January waited a number of months before the complaint was lodged. That's a really weird story. I think it would be useful to take another look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u247	I have already indicated that despite the halving of the palpable earthquakes in Groningen, the damage reports have more than doubled. That is a development that is taking place. The Center for Safe Living has to deal with that. I am convinced that she does this in the right way and that the management of the company where it can do better is aimed at doing it better. I am also going to have that assessed, not only by the supervisory committee which has reported to me and which I myself have understood. I also understand myself with the leadership of the Safe Living Centre. I want to hear from them, too, and ask them questions. I'll have the National Coordinator do that. I believe that the proper organisation of the Safe Living Centre, the proper organisation of the management of the centre and its staff, and the supervision we have organized are what we need to ensure that the claims are properly dealt with and dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u248	I want to know how much more time you think you need. I think you should finish now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u249	I will conclude at any time that you take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u250	Because there is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u251	Until then, I will try to answer the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u252	You mean the rounding of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u253	Well, block? The Minister has dealt with some four important issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u254	Welcome to the gas debates, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u255	Yeah, I've done it before, so I know what's gonna happen. I think you're almost ready for the last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u256	I have a few points in this section, Madam President. First, the hotline for mining damage. The reporting point for mining damage is the Centre Safe Living. If you have any damage, you should report it there. The Safe Living Centre is a professional organisation with people in Groningen who work with heart and soul. They are available every day for notifications they want to make there. There is also a kind of red button that you can press if you want someone with you immediately, because you assume insecurity. That's a good provision. Then we have the National Coordinator Groningen, who will take care of the complex claims from 1 January. If there are complex issues, then you can also involve the National Coordinator and in turn point out a separate case manager for each of these complex cases. In addition, the citizens' point of contact will be added. The social steering group set up in the area is currently being consulted. We will see exactly what this results in in terms of the design of this additional provision. In this way, I believe that the hotlines for damage and what is associated with it in the area are optimally completed. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked whether adequate attention is being paid to psychological damage in the area. That psychological damage in the area is, of course, a recognized problem. This is why separate research has been conducted at the University of Groningen on the psychosocial consequences of earthquakes in Groningen. In doing so, you look at the impact it has on people who are confronted with it. You compare them to people who don't face them. So you get a picture of that, too. The National Coordinator also spoke with the Council of Churches. He is also a good party to face up to the problem. I think that the case managers, appointed by the National Coordinator for the complex cases, will work together with those involved in finding solutions. This can also provide rest in cases where psychological damage may have been caused in the past. So I think we are right to address this problem in this way. Then I, I think, dealt with the various points in this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u257	Has there been a question left, Mrs. Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u258	I don't understand the Minister's story about one window. There are a lot of counters: the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, the Centre for Safe Living, the Independent Councilman, there is now a citizen's office, some people are still directly under the NAM, a number of case managers are active for the National Coordinator. We've talked to all those people being sent from the locker to the wall. One window at the beginning where everything can end up could create some sort of chaos. I don't understand why the Minister says it's all clear and we're talking a bunch of citizens who say they don't know where to go with crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u259	A brief response from the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u260	Anyone with their damage can go to the Centre for Safe Living. That's what it was founded for. That could deal with the damage report. Everyone knows that. The Centre for Safe Living also announces this to everyone. But there's got to be more back there. I have indicated what the committee is doing with poignant cases. I have indicated what the National Coordinator is doing to give extra attention to cases that need to be dealt with on parts. So there are all kinds of things that play back there, but the central login point for damage is the Center Safe Living. With the steering committee I was just talking about, we are looking at whether it has added value to have a separate hotline in case a citizen is not so much concerned with a case of damage as with a problem related to earthquakes. Then you can also hear about it at a central point. The way in which this can be completed is now being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u261	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u262	This means that you have a clear login point for both the damage cases and the other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u263	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u264	So the minister says that the Center for Safe Living, even if you live outside the contours, is going to look at your damage, assess it, and make sure that your damage is dealt with? We in Groningen really do belong different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u265	The point that occurs outside the contours is the point of the bottom descent, not that of the earthquakes, which would have caused the damage. That's what research has been done. In the cases investigated, the conclusion has been drawn that there is no relationship with gas extraction. Because that is an important research, it is now validated on behalf of the National Coordinator Groningen. Moreover, the National Coordinator said that if they think that they have suffered damage as a result of soil decline, they have a separate hotline for that National Coordinator. It will ensure that adequate attention is paid to these cases as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u266	This doesn't help with the trust, I don't think. Anyway, my question is about another subject, namely the psychological damage to the people in Groningen. The Minister said that there are several ways of paying attention to this. I, too, have been to Groningen and have spoken to several people. Turns out it's shredded after all. I read in the papers that a two-year study of the social impact of the earthquakes is going to be carried out at the University of Groningen. Isn't it an idea to link the psychic impact to that? On this basis, we can look at how to better anchor the psychological impact in the procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u267	Mrs Dik-Faber says, in response to an answer I have given to a question, that this does not help confidence. I wonder if such a remark would help to build confidence. I have indicated that the Center for Safe Living is always available to anyone who has a claim. I have also indicated that for when you have something that is not directly traceable to the damage, but in which you do want to be heard, a citizen's window is being discussed. Moreover, I have indicated that in those cases where certain groups need extra attention, we have also organised it. And then Mrs Dik-Faber says in one sentence that that does not help with confidence and then comes up with her next question. Does that mean a confidence-building effect for the area? Actually, I don't think so. Then her point about the psychic damage. The psychological problem is part of the problem which we must take seriously and which needs attention. So that's what happens. This is why research is being conducted by the University of Groningen. The National Coordinator Groningen and the State University together will organise this research as well as possible, so that the results can be done as much as possible. They will involve Mrs Dik-Faber's suggestion, but in the end those who commission and conduct the research will have to consider how that research can have the most social significance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u268	I understand from the Minister's answer that social research has a psychological component in it. "Social" therefore relates not only to the functioning of society, but also to the psychological damage of people. If that's the case, I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u269	If I go into this point, I will come up with the same words as I just did. So I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u270	In short, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u271	It is actually more of a point of order than a question, because I have already put the questions in my speech. Can the Minister disclose the cooperation agreement between the NAM and the Safe Living Centre? The second question I have already asked is as follows. Is it possible to make the way the counter-expertise is organised transparent? Can the granting of that counter-expertise be removed from the NAM and the Centre Safe Living?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u272	That was not a point of order. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u273	No, it's two questions I've already asked. I don't know what else to call it. At the end of this block, I would like to answer the questions I had already asked, without having to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u274	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u275	Mr Vos referred to the cooperation agreement between the Centre for Safe Living and the NAM. I don't know what exactly he's referring to. I'll check this out. I know that if the two companies, CED and Arcadis, have to carry out comprehensive work, they must have a mandate to do so. They got it from the NAM. It is a private contract between private parties. I do not think it is intended to make such agreements public. When companies conclude agreements with each other, the responsibility lies with those companies. I do not know if there is a separate cooperation agreement between the Safe Living Centre and the NAM that could be made public. I shall look into this in a moment and perhaps come back to it in a second term. Then the point of counter-expertise. If someone has damage and the Safe Living Centre has made a damage assessment of it, but the person concerned does not agree with it, then the person concerned has the opportunity to apply for a counter-expertise. That's a regular part of the process. The NAM does not have to make separate decisions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u276	Are there any other questions that haven't been answered, Mr Vos?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u277	I have an interruption in the way in which this response has been put in place. As I said in my contribution, for Groningers, the Centre for Safe Living is an extension of the NAM. And the NAM has no confidence. I put it differently: the NAM and the Centre Safe Living are one pot wet. I've already asked the director of the NAM if that agreement can be made public, because people just want to know what's going on. Then I was told here in the Chamber that that would happen. So I'd like that to happen. I would also like the counter-expertise to be disconnected from these clubs. I say again: people feel at the mercy of the NAM and the Centre for Safe Living, organizations they have no confidence in. Is that what the Minister wants to shape? If there is indeed a private contract, which we do not have access to, can the Minister tell us how he will check whether the Mining Act is being complied with, namely in such a way that all damage is compensated by mining?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u278	Mr Vos says that the feeling in the area is that the NAM cannot be trusted, that the Centre for Safe Living cannot be trusted and that it is all one pot wet. I do not think it would help to find solutions if we were to take care of those statements. If I had the conviction that the NAM would not be good or act responsibly, then I would have to act and bring the NAM to responsible action. I am convinced that the NAM does act responsibly, and that the NAM and the attitude it takes there can be trusted. Of course things go wrong and things have to be corrected. That happens to me, too, and it happens wherever they work. However, the NAM is a reliable party. The Safe Living Centre is an implementing body placed at a distance from the NAM. In my opinion, good work is being done there with the best of intentions. If we can do better, we have to do better. I know the management of the company wants that, too. It also does not contribute to regaining confidence in the area if we put away the NAM and the Centre Safe Living as one pot wet and not reliable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u279	This discussion has been held before. Questions that are being asked must really be about new issues. I have the impression that we are now repeating ourselves. There is also a second deadline. I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u280	I was not finished with my reply to Mr Vos, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u281	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u282	He also asked me a question about the agreement. If there are any agreements that can be made public, I will have them made public. However, it is not my line to disclose private-law agreements, i.e. agreements between private companies. It's not my job to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u283	I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u284	Mr President, with all due respect, I have asked a question and no answer has been given. I asked how these companies comply with the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u285	It is quite clear that damage caused by mining must be compensated, whatever form that damage takes and wherever it occurs. For this purpose, we have the Centre for Safe Living. That centre shall be supervised by a committee set up separately for that purpose. Moreover, the National Coordinator Groningen is called upon to do so. If those who have damage and report damage consider that they are not treated properly enough, then we have now arranged for an arbitrator to be appointed. So he can quickly come to conclusions on the ground. If the parties consider that the arbitrator's ruling is not correct, they still have the opportunity to go to court. This set of provisions means that the damage caused by mining is also compensated by the person who caused the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u286	I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u287	Yes. Three times is a charm. I'd like to come back to the bottom descent for a moment. Soil decline is not an earthquake, but is not independent of mining activities. TU Delft has found that the rate of soil decrease in the area has increased by a factor of 2. However, not all the damage caused by the fall in soil is compensated. Why is it not also compensated for the damage caused by soil decline? Indirectly, that damage was also caused by the NAM. Why isn't that being treated more generously?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u288	As far as I am concerned, there is no restraint. Damage caused by mining activities must be compensated by the person carrying out those activities, regardless of whether such damage occurs as a result of earthquakes, as a result of spills, such as it is referred to in the law as "reinforce' or as a result of soil degradation. It doesn't matter. If soil decline causes damage and that soil decline is caused by natural gas extraction, i.e. by mining, then that damage must be compensated. It is not obvious, however, that soil decline immediately leads to damage. The soil descends evenly over a large area. Research has shown that in those cases where damage has been claimed by soil degradation, the damage has not occurred as a result of that mining activity. Whether this research is entirely correct is currently being validated. At this point, we recognise that damage can occur as a result of soil degradation. If it occurs, that damage must also be compensated. It must always be assessed whether the damage is actually caused by the mining activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u289	That's right, but there's also the difficulty. What has come to our attention is that too often it is said that the soil in that whole area is falling, so that the NAM does not have to pay or that is not damage caused by mining activities. What TU Delft has shown is that the bottom descent rate doubles, so in an already declining area, the effect is enhanced. So you're talking about damage caused by gas extraction. That's often denied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u290	If there is damage caused by gas extraction, that damage must be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u291	However, I would like to return to the Minister's words, who believes that the NAM is socially responsible and reliable. How does the Minister intend to use these words, with the knowledge of what is going on in Groningen? We've been looking back for years at a NAM that hasn't been socially responsible at all. Since 2003, the NAM has seen an increase in earthquakes. The Security Research Council has pointed this out. I have given the Minister seven examples, from the University of Groningen, which is not adequately paid, to people who have to send their reconstruction costs to a notary so that the NAM can send the VAT deduction to the tax authorities. What is reliable about this and what is socially responsible about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u292	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u293	I've been working on this file for over three years. I worked intensively with the NAM for three years. I am confident that the NAM is doing its best to act socially responsibly and that it is doing so with good intentions. The NAM is committed to this in a reliable way. If I thought I wasn't, I'd perform. Then I would have addressed the NAM. I'm convinced she will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u294	This debate has also just been held, Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u295	I'm gonna stay pretty calm, but not now. Groningers really don't benefit from this. During our excursion, ten days ago, we only encountered examples where there is no evidence of what the Minister is saying here. The minister doesn't have to bash my NAM, but it's very important for all Groningers to keep his distance from the NAM. That's the tennis game I was just talking about. I'm afraid Mr. Alders is going to be that ball. You don't have to. The Minister must keep his distance from the NAM, including with regard to that investigation and all those things that the NAM pays or does not fully train. I really think it is very important for the Minister to put that into his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u296	I don't think you need a second term, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u297	There is absolutely no question that I wouldn't be able to distance myself from the NAM. I make my own decisions. I carry my own responsibility. I'll answer for that, here in the House of Representatives. I am well aware of that. Does Mr Smaling think that the NAM welcomes the fact that the extraction of gas has been reduced from 47, 48 to 27, 28, that a new nitrogen plant is being built and that what we have just discussed is happening in Germany, Belgium and France? The NAM has an interest in carrying out activities in a responsible way and making money from them. I have an interest in acting with integrity in every respect and in implementing all the legal provisions according to the letter and the spirit. I'm completely independent of the NAM. I have nothing to do with the NAM other than that the NAM wins natural gas there, that the NAM has to abide by the rules and that the NAM should do what I think it should do to enable me to make the right decisions. I've noticed in the three years I've been working with the NAM that she does. I think the NAM is a reliable partner. Then that's what I'm saying. If it weren't, I'd take action against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u298	There have been two questions from Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u299	One question is about farmers. They get a fee if there's a high-voltage boom or a windmill on their land, but not if there's any mining on their land. The second question is: if you are near a Brzo company, which includes our most dangerous chemical companies, your risk must be limited to 10. In industrial gas extraction, it only has to be 10. What the hell is the rational underneath that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u300	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u301	The same applies to agricultural operators in the area as to others: if they have damage, the damage must be compensated. There has been talk of possible support for certain investments. There is an Economic Board Groningen, which has received 65 million from NAM and 32.5 million from the province of Groningen. That's almost 100 million together. He can do things with that to stimulate the economy in the area. This can also be done by the agricultural entrepreneurs. The Economic Board can see that. The agricultural entrepreneurs, like all entrepreneurs, belong to that Economic Board. For high-risk installations, such as chemical plants, we have a separate safety standard: 10. This means that an accident should not occur more frequently than in 10 cases in that area, close to such a company. As a cabinet, we said that the general safety standard for people in Groningen must be equal to the general safety standard in the rest of the country: 10. We apply this throughout the country, including in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u302	The first question was: if there is a fee for a high-voltage tower or a windmill, why is there no compensation for the use of the land for mining? Then I am referred to the Economic Board Groningen, but that was not the question at all. On the second question, the Minister implicitly replies that in the next ten years twenty deaths in Groningen as a result of gas extraction are acceptable as far as the government is concerned. I suggest to the Minister that you now consider mining as a dangerous chemical complex, for which there are higher standards. There is no reason why these standards should be lower for an industrial mining complex such as in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u303	For the industrial complexes in Groningen the same standards apply as for the complexes in the rest of the country, namely 10. For the people in Groningen the same standard applies as for the people in the rest of the country: 10. I think it is quite right that we have made no distinction between Groningen and the rest of the country. For the farmers, we have laid down rules in the Mining Act and in other places. Those rules are being applied. It is always possible to look at these rules, their coherence and their reasonableness. This is not unspeakable for the future, but the provisions that have been laid down are being applied there. For the industrial installations in Groningen the same standard is applied as for the installations in Rotterdam, Limburg and elsewhere in the country. For the inhabitants in Groningen the same standard is applied as for the people in the rest of the country. So I do not think it is correct for Mrs Van Tongeren to say that the cabinet accepts that twenty people could die. That is not a correct translation of what I have put forward, and that does not contribute to creating confidence in the area. Mr President, I come to the buy-back scheme. I have already dealt with that in the question, so I could leave that in your mind. Then there's the reinforcement call. On the basis of the contour map, it is completed further and we look at where the risks are greatest. That's in the center area of Loppersum. From there, we'll start with the reinforcements. We have also looked at how much needs to be strengthened. It is estimated that at a natural gas extraction level of 27 billion cubic metres per year, 3,100 buildings need to be strengthened. However, you do not know exactly which buildings they are. So you have to have some space to reach the buildings that at least need to be strengthened. Experts say you have to take a factor of 2 to 3 to be safe. I applied the factor 3: 3 times 3,100 is 9,300; I rounded that up to 10,000. So the ambition is to strengthen 10,000 buildings. Those buildings must comply with standard 10. We have just talked about this; that standard also applies to the rest of the country. In order to meet this requirement, these 10,000 buildings need to be strengthened. The ambition is to achieve this in five years. That will now have to be further worked out. It is a great ambition, because many activities with a very large impact often have to be carried out in small-scale environments. It is absolutely essential that the people involved and included in it understand why this is happening and wish to participate in it. The way it is done must also be acceptable to them. This requires a lot of consultation, not only with them but also with those who guard the area, who know what is happening in the area, in the neighborhood and in the village. The link with other activities will also need to be addressed. I told the Chamber earlier that I would ensure the capacity to strengthen 3,000 homes a year. That capacity is there, but it is not being used at the moment. It is not the case that a few dozen homes have been strengthened; in more than 1,000 homes the necessary measures have been taken. This large-scale reinforcement programme, aimed at those 10,000 homes in the end, now needs to be further developed. We will. In the core area, we start with that. We're trying to identify those properties. We are trying to make small-scale and large-scale plans for this. The National Coordinator is working on this and I think it is a very important and positive activity in the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u304	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u305	This was what I wanted to say at first on the issue of reinforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u306	I want you to finish up anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u307	Do you want me not to answer the other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u308	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u309	You do want me to answer those questions. Okay, I'll go on for a while. Mrs Mulder and Mrs Van Veldhoven said that the monuments should not only look at the economic value, but that there is more to it. That's absolutely true. The economic value is not a decisive criterion in determining the value of such a monument. Together with the heritage partners, with the executive organisations, with the Cultural Heritage Agency, which is in charge of this project, we are exploring what should now happen in the Groningen situation for the monumental buildings. There is a separate balancing framework for this. They're working on it. It should be ready by the end of the second quarter of 2016. Then we will also have an image of the approach to the monuments there in the area. Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Vos said that it is not possible for teaching hours to be included in construction projects. I think that teachers and administrators are always involved to a certain extent when their school is renewed. It's gonna have energy in it. I think that's important for a school like this, too. Of course, we in Groningen can strengthen all schools that need to be strengthened, but it is better to see how that can have the greatest future value for the area. So you have to look at what is needed for the future and how you can best shape it. This includes the involvement of directors and teachers. The question of how to shape this and what you can and cannot reasonably ask, including in the Groningen situation, will be addressed separately by the National Coordinator Groningen. This will also show whether this is within the margins or whether a separate arrangement should be considered. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether the green or white NPR should be handled. The green NPR was replaced by the white NPR on 1 January 2016. That is why we used the standard 10. They're working on it now. What about the earthquake damage to the Chemistry Park? What are the earthquake risks there? We have developed a methodology to assess the risks. That goes in two stages. Companies are currently in the process of going through these phases. A number of companies have already completed the first phase. A number of other companies are in a final stage. It is expected that by the end of the first quarter of 2016 we will have reached an end. With regard to AkzoNobel, at least we have already been able to draw a conclusion. AkzoNobel believes that his installation does not pose a higher risk to external security. That's an important fact. With regard to the other heavier industrial plants, we expect to have a picture of the risks to the largest industrial companies in the Chemie Park around the summer, say at the end of the first half of this year. On this basis, we can consider whether further measures are needed. They're working on it. It's all custom-made per company. The methodology has been developed. We're working with all these companies. People are busy per company in order to come to conclusions now. Mrs Mulder asked whether the sustainability scheme for buildings is also aimed at industrial buildings. We are already talking about the increase in value, and it seems to me to be a good thing to do so. Then I'm gonna finish this part and move on to the appreciation scheme. In the administrative agreement with the area, we had agreed an amount for the appreciation scheme. A preliminary interpretation of the value increase scheme has been set up, but 31 000 cases have been identified for this purpose. The money available for a period of five years will be spent over a period of two years. That whole amount will therefore be spent very soon. The increase in value was therefore provisionally completed in such a way that the budget was exhausted. The question is what we need to do now that the budget is up. We have looked at how best to shape a possible follow-up for the area. We can then best focus on those who are most affected by the earthquakes. Those are the ones whose homes need to be strengthened, who often have to leave their homes and who are therefore faced with great effects. We think it would be a good idea to set a possible continuation of an increase in value on that particular group. The advantage of this is that you can combine the increase in value, the work on sustainability, with the strengthening. That means you can achieve more for the same amount of money. If you can do activities on a house in a larger context, you can achieve more sustainability for the same amount. So we have thought: we reach the people most affected and we can get the most benefit from the increase in value. That is why we are going to try to find money in the spring note to continue the increase in value, despite the fact that the budget is running out. There is now an overall figure of 70 million in the picture, for which we are trying to find cover. So that's aimed at the reinforcements. I think that this is how we have found the best solution for the area and for the people most affected. This means that if the Chamber says that the existing system of increase in value should also be continued, I will not only have to deal with the problem of the need to find cover for the interpretation that I myself gave to it on the advice of the National Coordinator. After all, there is no cover at all for the continuation of the scheme in the old form. I don't have the freedom to do expenses that aren't covered. I don't see any way to cover it either. That is why I am in favour of sticking to our proposal. This proposal forms part of the multiannual programme of the National Coordinator, which is aimed at the people who benefit most from it, both in terms of compensation for the nuisance suffered and in the sense that the investment provides the most in terms of sustainability. Those were my answers to the appreciation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u310	Mr Vos wants to interrupt, but I will see if the Minister has come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u311	On the issue of the increase in value, this was my response, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u312	How much more time do you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u313	I think I can see the end of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u314	How long will that take?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u315	Depending on the interruptions, it should be possible within ten minutes, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u316	Then I will give you the opportunity to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u317	Mr Wassenberg wondered whether we saw similar possibilities for homeowners as for tenants. We have the ambition to invest €4,000 per house in strengthening rentals and to add €3,000 on the basis of the adjusted value increase scheme but also on the basis of the STEP scheme. So €7,000 will be available. We have the ambition to do the same for the homeowners. This means that we are also working towards supporting the reinforcement exercise with the same facilities, so that you can achieve the same sustainability gains there. I go to the points raised by the spokesmen which I have not yet addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u318	Mrs. Mulder, we've just agreed that the Minister will finish his story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u319	Yes, chairman, but there were several cubes. After the last block, on the increase in value, the Minister would still address individual questions. He was busy answering my question about the buildings and the valuation scheme, but then the answer didn't come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u320	I'd like to suggest that the Minister finishes his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u321	I will try to correct that deficiency towards Mrs Mulder. The value increase scheme is aimed at residential houses and individuals, not farm buildings. This means that the value increase scheme does not apply to farm buildings. I have no further questions from Mrs Van Veldhoven that I have not yet answered. The same applies, in my view, to Mrs Van Tongeren. Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about the gas roundabout. That is not something we should say goodbye to as soon as possible. The gas roundabout is part of the security of supply of the Netherlands. It is not just for the security of supply of the Netherlands. Because of the facilities and organisation we have here, we can also play a positive role in the security of energy supply for the people of North-West Europe. What has been set up with regard to the gas roundabout is therefore, in my opinion, functional and benefits the citizens, first and foremost in the Netherlands but also in the neighbouring countries. That's good. It is also part of the concentration of activity in the area, particularly in Groningen. It is also useful in the transition to renewable energy. So I think we should maintain the gas roundabout. Mrs Klever still had a number of qualifications, but I will not go into them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u322	I think that's very wise. No, Mrs. Klever, you're not allowed to respond yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u323	Mr Smaling wondered how certain the National Coordinator Groningen could be of funding. There is a lot of funding available because we have agreed on a 1.2 billion package. This includes amounts for increase in value, which have now been spent, as well as amounts for strengthening, for the Economic Boards and for improving the living environment. That's all available. We are also looking at whether, because of the future resilience of the investments we are making in the area of reinforcement, particular attention is needed for schools, health care institutions and a number of other areas. This is viewed by the National Coordinator Groningen. We'll see what the conclusions are. Then we will see whether additional resources are needed and how we can get them available. I think I have already dealt with Mr Smaling's other issues. Mr Wassenberg spoke about the reversal of the burden of proof. Mr Vos did the same. At a certain point in time, the Chamber made a ruling on the reversal of the burden of proof. I said at the time that I wanted the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. That's what I got in October. A legislative proposal was subsequently drawn up. It's in the Chamber by now. After legal treatment in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber, it will be possible to enter into force if it is adopted by both. The next date that comes into view is 1 July a.s. We have fixed dates of entry into force: 1 January and 1 July. I hope that the treatment in the Lower House and in the Upper House will make it possible to get that date. That is what I wanted to say about the reversal of the burden of proof. Mr Vos spoke about the example of Denmark and Uruguay, where renewable energy is rapidly being used. I understand that he wanted to send the message that we are not moving quickly enough towards renewable energy. Our ambition to move to renewable energy is enshrined in the coalition agreement and then in the energy agreement. It is a far-reaching ambition, which requires a great deal of us, both financially and in terms of what we impose on the people in the country who are faced with the consequences of that transition, for example by getting wind farms close by. It's a high ambition. We must do our best to do so, and we are doing so with complete conviction. I am available every time to make the Chamber understand what we are doing and what we can achieve and to say that we want to make the most of it. So I am available at any time to talk to Mr Vos and the rest of the Chamber about the pace we are moving towards the transition to renewable energy. I've already gone into Chemistry Park. The same applies to the contours. I think I have answered Mrs Mulder's questions. She asked when the industry review framework would be ready. I've gone into that. We think that at the end of the second quarter we will have a clear picture of what is going on in the industry in Delfzijl. Mr Dijkgraaf has also raised a number of points. I also agreed to that. Once again I say to him: if during the winter it turns out to be warmer than expected, let's see if we can still make a profit with a combination of the use of the gas from Norg and the use of the nitrogen plants. I referred to Mr Bosman's point about the increase in value, the importance of communicating with residents through the Centre for Safe Living and the provision of data in a central place. In doing so, I hope that in my first term I have responded properly to the contributions of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u324	Only those questions that have not been answered, because we also have a second deadline. So one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u325	The Minister did not answer my question about the buy-out scheme. Who's gonna stop this buyout scheme anyway? The director of the NAM said in his New Year's speech that he was in favour of the buy-out scheme. The residents would like a buyout arrangement. In the reply, the Minister also said that he wanted a buy-out arrangement. Who's gonna stop it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u326	The Minister. A brief answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u327	Mrs. Klever says first I didn't go into it. Then she says that I did say something about that in my reply. I said something about it, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u328	In the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u329	You would think that a buy-out scheme should remain within a number of conditions. I have mentioned, among other things, that it should not strengthen the shrinkage in the area. I have also said that the buying-out scheme may cover three cases: the strengthening will be too expensive, it is a poignant case or there are personal reasons for which particular attention is needed. This should then function as a safety net and ultimately lead to the housing market operating in the area in a way comparable to housing markets in areas comparable to Groningen. That's what I said. That was the answer to Mrs Klever's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u330	No, my question was, why is it taking so long for this buyout arrangement to come? Apparently everyone wants it, but she's still not here. It still needs to be filled in. The Minister has indeed responded in writing to it. I read in the documents that it must be a closure, that it must not disturb the housing market and that there should be no draining of the region. The region is for the residents, isn't it? The residents aren't here for the region, are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u331	I didn't just go into that in writing. I also mentioned these elements in my first term. They were therefore exchanged orally with the Chamber. There's already a buyout going on right now. I have already said that a house has been taken over in a few dozen cases. I have also indicated that we are now considering whether, in addition to the existing situations, buy-out can take place in new situations. That's what we're working on right now. As soon as we have done so, we will apply the adapted regime. We really want to stay within the framework. It is therefore a safety net scheme which must have positive and no negative effects on the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u332	Mrs Mulder, you also have questions that have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u333	That's a few more, but I understand I'm allowed to put one now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u334	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u335	The Minister states that he is in the process of setting up an independent body to look, for example, at the risk card, the contour card and the seismic threat. This consists of the SodM, the KNMI and TNO. Our question was when this body is there, what legal basis it has and what its mandate is, for example towards the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u336	That was a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u337	I think Mrs Mulder is making things a little too complicated right now, Madam President. There was a contour map based on the approach of the KNMI. That contour map was based on statistical data. Afterwards, a contour map of the NAM was created, using actual data on the Groningen area to better reflect the contours. Experts then discussed this. On this basis, the SodM concluded that the contour map of the NAM has the most meaning and can best be followed. Then I agreed that we will see if the positive elements of the KNMI approach can be combined with the positive elements of the NAM approach and whether an integrated contour map could be extracted. That's what's being worked on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u338	Mrs. Mulder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u339	Is it also explicitly considered where the damage actually takes place? This was made very clear to us when we were with the committee on working visits in Onderdendam. That element seemed to the inhabitants there to be quite underexposed. Is that a point that is explicitly taken into account in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u340	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u341	That's the approach taken by NAM. The NAM did not work on the basis of statistics, but wondered what was actually happening in the Groningen area and what movements were relevant for assessing the risk. The SodM concluded that it was the best system. However, I think that the combination of the KNMI and the NAM approach can bring out the optimal contour map. In doing so, therefore, we should not see the importance of this contour map wider than I indicated earlier in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u342	I have a question about the reverse burden of proof. In my first term, I said that it says that it has only limited validity. That doesn't apply to all Groningers with damage. I have here the amendment to the Mining Act. I quote from page 5 of the explanatory statement: 'Therefore, the application of legal evidence in concrete cases is subject to the scope of the impact as established at the time when the injured party became aware of the damage'. It also states that it only applies to the Groningenveld: "If the location of the damage at the time of disclosure of the damage is outside the area of impact, then the evidence does not apply,..." Could the Minister respond? So it doesn't apply to all Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u343	I think it would be a good idea to discuss this with each other when we deal with the legislative proposal. That is what we have the written round and the plenary debate for. Then all these things can be discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u344	I think that is a very good idea, because the bill is on the agenda for tomorrow's procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u345	Of course, but today we are talking about the reverse burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u346	Certainly, and for that I have tabled a separate legislative proposal, which will be dealt with in all the details by the Chamber. Mr Wassenberg has given one such detail, which is important to him. That will undoubtedly receive attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u347	The Minister indicated that the gas roundabout is necessary for the energy supply in North-West Europe, but I also pointed out in my debate text the policy of reducing gas dependence, for example by decoupling housing and residential areas from gas and using more heat. I also referred to the climate summit, on which we also agreed on reduced dependence on fossil energy. Perhaps the Minister will require a different view of the gas roundabout. I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u348	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u349	I think we will need fossil energy for decades to come. Despite all our efforts at the moment, we are not above 6% of renewable energy. So at the moment we have 94% fossil energy. In the year 2023, we have 16% renewable energy. So we have 84% fossil energy. This means that we will still need fossil energy over the next few decades. Gas is an important part of this. It is also the least polluting fossil energy carrier. It is therefore important that, as the Netherlands and Western Europe will need a lot of gas, we ensure that supplies and distribution are properly regulated. That's what the gas roundabout can contribute to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u350	Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u351	The gas will not have disappeared between now and ten years. Its dependence will remain. I recognize that, too. But in the Energy report that the Minister sent to the Chamber last week, gas has a fairly dominant position. Should we not give this whole gas roundabout strategy a secondary and perhaps subordinate position in relation to our ambition to become less gas dependent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u352	No. I do not think that the Chamber is in line with the idea of a large-scale nuclear energy transfer. Nor is the Chamber on the line that we need to build more coal-fired power stations. The Chamber is, I think, on the line that we should make optimal and responsible use of gas as long as necessary. Gas will therefore remain important for the Netherlands in the coming decades. If you have properly regulated the supply and distribution of gas internationally, and you can play a positive role in the security of supply in your own country and in North-West Europe, then you must not forget that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u353	I had one more question. I've listed a list in my first term. I started with Hanseatic High School, Bedum, Loppersum and Delfzijl, and the climax actually formed the victims who opt for demolition and rebuilding. They can place their costs with the notary, but I understand that they will then be registered with the NAM, who will then be able to recover the VAT from the tax authorities. Does the Minister recognize this image? Isn't this against the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u354	That case was brought to my attention last week, in the same terms as Mr Smaling used. I'll have a look at what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u355	We have come to the end of the government's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u356	Mr. Chairman. In my contribution to the first term, I said that peace and results are the things that Groningen needs. I think we have been able to take a number of important steps in today's debate. I would like to thank the Minister in particular for the commitment that he will come up with a separate framework for monuments. I would also like to thank him for his willingness to offer the National Coordinator Groningen some room for customization when people are in danger of being ground between all regulations and rules. On a number of other points there is not yet full agreement with the Minister, but broad agreement in the Chamber. We are therefore going to try to get closer to each other with the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is an important task in Groningen to ensure that every child can go to school safely;]] [[Whereas this also offers an opportunity to make schools more sustainable, modernise and, where relevant, take into account growth or shrinkage;]] [[whereas some schools and municipalities are now faced with costs rather than anticipated, but this should not prevent future-proof choices;]] [[calls on the Government to enable the NCG to find a solution to this issue with schools and municipalities and to examine pre-financing as an instrument,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas schools and hospitals now have to spend education and care money on preparing and monitoring construction projects due to earthquake problems;]] [[Invites the Government, with the NCG, to ensure that these expenses as part of the damage recovery and reinforcement are reimbursed by NAM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government's Mining Decision on safe extraction in the Groningenveld is now mainly based on the investigation of the NAM which is an interested party;]] [[Whereas the Research Council for Security has recommended the establishment of an independent scientific and applied research programme on the subsurface;]] [[calls on the Government to set up the independent research programme on the subsurface in such a way that the research on the basis of which the Mining Decision is made can also be invested independently,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Jan Vos, Van Tongeren, Smaling, Bosman, Agnes Mulder, Klever, Dijkgraaf and Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-218]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-2019]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u357	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government has committed that all existing complex cases will be resolved before 1 January 2016;]] [[noting that this has not yet been done, but is important for restoring confidence;]] [[calls on the Government, the National Coordinator of Groningen, to give sufficient room for rapid and generous handling of all old complex cases, and to ensure that these latter matters have final clarity at least before the kropusreces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NAM protected the production sites of the Groningenveld and the fuel park Delfzijl against the consequences of mining damage with vibration recorders;]] [[noting that NAM indicates that these installations are automatically enclosed if vibrations are recorded above a certain acceleration at the given location;]] [[noting that NAM itself indicates that vibration recorders can prevent mining damage to the installations;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the implementation of Article 33 of the Mining Act and to require NAM to apply vibration recorders around vulnerable objects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no scientific or empirical evidence that flat winning reduces the risk of earthquakes, and that there is much evidence that lower extraction reduces this risk;]] [[noting that the State surveillance of the Mines advised that the extraction of gas should be reduced as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible and that it showed that the earthquake risk was significantly lower at approximately 21 billion cubic metres;]] [[calls on the government to reduce the production ceiling for 2016 as far as possible below the current 27 billion cubic metres per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Smaling, Wassenberg, Van Veldhoven, Dijkgraaf, Agnes Mulder, Jan Vos and Klever.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-221]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-222]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-223]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u358	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the strengthening of schools and healthcare institutions is slowing down due to the debate on demographic developments and cost-efficiency;]] [[Whereas the NAM is financially responsible for any damage caused by its mining activities;]] [[considers that safety is paramount at all times and that all necessary reinforcement of schools and care institutions should be carried out as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the government, the reinforcement of schools and care institutions to take place as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the conservation of cultural heritage in Groningen is under strong pressure as a result of gas extraction, but that NAM is obliged to pay the costs of preserving and restoring monumental heritage (motion-Dik-Faber c.s. (33529, No. 1070));]] [[Whereas a good state of maintenance of the monuments contributes significantly to the prevention of damage, as shown by the research "Living monuments in a liveable region" of the RCE;]] [[Whereas there is an existing Brim scheme which supports the owners of monuments in the maintenance of their national monuments, based on the principle that maintenance is sober and efficient;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a Brim-plus regime specifically for the earthquake area, aimed at preventing mining damage and providing private owners with support from the Centre for Safe Living or the National Coordinator Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2013 the Chamber asked for a vision to be drawn up to clarify how the Groningen gas contributes to the government's sustainable energy objectives (motion-Dik-Faber (33529, nr. 6);]] [[Whereas significant gas savings are in the interests of the security of the Groningen people and the implementation of the climate agreement;]] [[believes that the province of Groningen is already working on clean and innovative energy through cooperation between market, knowledge and government through Energy Valley;]] [[calls on the government, the province of Groningen, to become a frontrunner in the field of clean energy and energy saving in cooperation with Energy Valley,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Dik-Faber, Van Tongeren, Klever, Smaling, Van Veldhoven, Dijkgraaf, Jan Vos and Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-224]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Dik-Faber, Van Tongeren, Van Veldhoven and Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-225]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-226]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u359	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in villages outside the contour map up to 60% of homes have earthquake damage;]] [[Whereas the extent to which homes suffer earthquake damage depends on many more factors than the contour in which the dwelling is located;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the contour card and to treat all damages in Groningen in the same way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u360	Should I interpret Mrs Klever's motion in such a way that the point is that a citizen should not have to decide what the damage is but that she should be able to go to a single point of contact, or does she mean something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u361	The Minister said he was going to set up a separate window for people living in a place outside the contour map. This also means that there will be a separate treatment for these people. As far as I am concerned, all damages are treated equally, i.e. quickly and generously. People living in a place outside the contour map should not suffer any harm in dealing with their damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u362	So it means that everyone must be able to go to that place and then in the back office of the organisation we have to look at what kind of damage it is and what effect it has. For the citizen, therefore, there must be one place where he can go, no matter what kind of damage it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u363	Yes, the citizen must be able to go to one point of contact, but the treatment must also be the same. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the available conversion capacity has not or hardly been used in recent years;]] [[noting that our neighbouring countries intend to continue to use our Groninger gas for a long time;]] [[Whereas, according to the State's surveillance of the Mines, the current level of gas extraction will increase the number of earthquakes in the coming years;]] [[calls on the government to reduce the gas extraction ceiling to the maximum by making maximum use of the conversion capacity and accelerating the export of our Groninger gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Coordinator Groningen intends to introduce a buy-back scheme for houses that do not comply with the 10-safety standard;]] [[Whereas certain exclusive conditions are to be worked out in conjunction with the NAM;]] [[Considering that no person in Groningen whose home is so damaged by the earthquakes that a substantial reinforcement notice is necessary should be excluded from a buy-out scheme;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce immediately a buy-out scheme for houses which do not comply with the 10-safety standard and for dwellings where strengthening is not possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-228]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-229]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u364	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing a few motions relating to investigation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NAM currently has an commissioned and executive role in carrying out research into the risks of gas extraction;]] [[Whereas, for understandable reasons, this investigation is being misconstrued by Groningers;]] [[considers that the public interest of good and independent research into the risks of gas extraction is high;]] [[calls on the Government to invest fully independently in research into the effects of gas extraction or for the benefit of a extraction plan, with the NAM no longer playing a role,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Study and Data Acquisition Plan of November 2012 was not implemented in its entirety, in particular the installation of tilt sensors in Loppersum and Middelsum was not initiated;]] [[Considering that with the promised installation of tilt sensors in 2013, this technique could have proved its usefulness and added value for almost two years now and could have provided research results;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with an independent and additional measuring network, including tilt sensors, without further restraint,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the horizontal Peak Ground Acceleration (PGA) largely determines the focus in determining the risks of earthquake damage;]] [[Considers that vertical PGA, soil descent and landscape elements such as terpen, distance to ditch or canal and the occurrence of heavy clay soils may also be of great importance;]] [[calls on the Government to include these factors in the analysis of the risks of earthquake damage and to include experts in these areas in the discussion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the NAM is responsible for repairing all damage related to gas extraction;]] [[noting that the practice now shows that the NAM only partially reimburses the costs for large recovery claims;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that additional costs are incurred in future-proof construction and that the Groningen rural communities cannot finance from their own resources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-230]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-231]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-232]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u365	Mr. Chairman. Three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister claims to put security first in the gas extraction decision;]] [[Whereas safety should mean that residents no longer have to fear earthquakes;]] [[noting that research shows that, from a safety point of view, the maximum gas extraction ceiling in the Groningenveld is 12 billion m per year, but that the Minister has not yet explored this route;]] [[calls on the government to develop a scenario for the summer to reduce the cap on gas extraction to 12 billion m per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research into the earthquakes in Groningen should be carried out independently in order to assess the effects of gas extraction;]] [[noting that several scientists have indicated that no independent research is currently taking place in the Netherlands, as mining company NAM is involved in each research;]] [[noting that this does not pose the right research questions, thus lacking new insights;]] [[calls on the Government, in the short term, to discuss with the Dutch universities how best to carry out the independent research;]] [[invites the Government also to impose on NAM without hesitation all relevant information for scientific research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that landlords are entitled to the Energy Performance Incentive Scheme (STEP) whereby they receive an amount per home to make it more sustainable, but that homeowners are excluded from this scheme;]] [[Whereas energy savings are the most important means of reducing demand for fossil fuels and the importance of sustainable housing;]] [[Whereas the current arrangements for homeowners are aimed at a loan rather than a grant;]] [[calls on the Government to bring forward, in the short term, a scheme for homeowners similar to the STEP scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-234]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-235]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u366	Mr. Chairman. Over the past three years we have experienced a huge transition here, whereby the Netherlands has switched from extremely proud to the gas extraction in Groningen to very critical. At the turn that was taken, many representatives of the people had to play a role. It is also good to see how such a parliamentary democracy works, because the anger, anxiety and the fierceness of the debate here have been great. For today, I have to say that we have also had a very hard debate and that we are far from in agreement on all points. However, I would like to thank the Minister for all his efforts on this dossier, because I know that he is incredibly keen on it. I would also like to thank him for the way in which he wanted to answer all the questions again today. I'd like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that "mining damage' and "earthquake damage' are not terms defined in legislation;]] [[noting that the Civil Code provides that the operator of a mining work must compensate for damage caused by mineral spills and damage caused by soil movement resulting from mining activities;]] [[Whereas it is incorrect to consider that only earthquake damage caused by gas extraction is present;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct NAM, the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator Groningen to use the broad concept of "damage from mining work" (mining damage), including earthquake damage, settlement damage and damage resulting from soil degradation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-237]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u367	My second motion concerns the phasing out of gas exports. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a reduction in mining damage can be achieved mainly by reducing gas extraction;]] [[Whereas a transition to a fully sustainable energy supply is necessary;]] [[whereas the Groningen gas can be used as a strategic reserve, for example at times when there is little wind and sun;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the possibilities of phasing out gas export contracts as much as possible and to report to the Court before 1 August 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Jan Vos, Van Tongeren, Van Veldhoven, Dijkgraaf, Dik-Faber, Smaling and Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-238]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u368	Mr. Chairman. I'll start the motions right away. After that, I have a few loose ends. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the impact of gas extraction forces residents and (agricultural) companies to raise investment;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals for a fund providing long-term loans with relatively low interest rates to enable these investments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unfair that residents who suffer damage from gas extraction in Groningen on one side of the contour are not entitled, and on the other side of the contour, to available arrangements and the same way of dealing with damages;]] [[calls on the Government to make available, for all those affected by gas extraction in Groningen, the compensation and sustainability schemes contained in the multiannual programme and the same damages treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the level and low level of mining is recommended by the State surveillance of the Mines;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with NAM, Gasunie and Gasterra on a regulated use of conversion and storage capacity for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-239]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Smaling, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-240]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Smaling, Mr Klever and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-241]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u369	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to the Langelo gas storage. There's a lot of unrest among the residents there. We appreciate that the National Coordinator Groningen is working on this, that he is going to communicate with the residents and that we are looking at how we can do it all in a good way. I do wonder when the hotline is operational for those who do not live in the area, but suffer from earthquake or mining damage. My question about the sustainability of buildings was whether it was also aimed at industrial buildings. The minister thought I asked if it was part of the appreciation scheme, but that was not my question. I would like another answer to my question. I support the motion on the increase in value, which will shortly be tabled by my colleague Mr Bosman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u370	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I would also like to thank him for the commitment to place the information and investigations at the heart of the open data and to improve knowledge in general. With regard to the increase in value, the Minister indicated that he still wants to maintain the link between strengthening and strengthening and thereby making it more sustainable, but a broad feeling in the Chamber is that it must be linked to the damage. People have an emotional experience: I actually experienced damage from that gas extraction, from earthquakes. That clutch is very strong. By making that connection, we are also doing something in return for all those people who are affected by that gas extraction, who are worried about the future and wonder how they get the trust back. I believe that this issue can strengthen confidence. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the interim scheme included an increase in value in the Multi-Year Plan National Coordinator Groningen;]] [[noting that the directors concerned in Groningen only objected to this part of the multiannual plan;]] [[Whereas for earthquake-damaged persons in the province of Groningen this system of appreciation is regarded as the recognizable recognition of the damage suffered by them;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal for maintaining the old-form appreciation scheme or a similar scheme when examining the forthcoming Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Bosman, Jan Vos, Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Agnes Mulder, Dik-Faber, Dijkgraaf, Smaling and Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-242]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u371	There is time between the end of the scheme and the handling of the Spring Note. We all have to catch that time together. That may be because we look at the retroactive treatment of the Spring Note. In the meantime, however, we must continue to deal with it practically. Anyway, we're all there to keep looking at it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u372	One question, Mr. Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u373	To be sure exactly what my name is under, I have the following question. So Mr Bosman does not agree with what the Minister said, namely that, as far as he is concerned, the increase in value will change into what has already been proposed in the multiannual plan, as he pointed out just now in his term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u374	I think my motion was crystal clear about that. We are linking them, in my view, to damage and not to strengthening and strengthening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u375	It's not customary to ask questions about a motion with your name on it. Anyway... We have come to the end of the second term of office. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u376	The minister's come back in by now. I would ask him to comment briefly on the motions and to give an opinion on them. Spokesmen only interrupt if something is not clear, or if they are willing to hold, withdraw or amend a motion. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u377	Mr. Chairman. The first motion, in part No. 218 is by Mrs Van Veldhoven c.s. It invites the government to enable the National Coordinator Groningen to find a solution to an issue with schools and municipalities, and to examine pre-financing as an instrument. That's what we do. I have said that we are going to look at what should reasonably be done in the area of sustainability for schools and healthcare institutions. We are also looking at whether extra money is needed and, if so, how this could be financed. So this is something we're working on. This process is partly described here. I can therefore leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 219 is stated by Mrs Van Veldhoven that the government must ensure that efforts by people involved in schools and health care institutions will be reimbursed by the NAM as expenses. I think we should now look at the conclusions of the research carried out by the National Coordinator Groningen on the future resilience of what we are going to invest in, among other things, care and education. This could be involved. The Court could then rule on this matter. I do not think it is useful to anticipate the work of the National Coordinator Groningen. That is why I consider Mrs Van Veldhoven's motion on item No. Two hundred and ninety-nine. If she does not wish to do so, I believe that the Chamber will come forward with an early ruling on this motion. I think that would stand in the way of the work of the National Coordinator Groningen. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion. In her motion in part No. 220 Mrs Van Veldhoven writes that an independent research programme should be set up in such a way that the research on the basis of which the mining decision is made can also be invested independently. The Mining Act lays down that mining companies have their own responsibility, including as regards the obligation to carry out research. This has also been highlighted once again in the report of the Research Council for Security. I would not wish to remove this responsibility from these companies or from the NAM. That's why I advise against this motion. I think independent research is important, and I have said the necessary about it. But I don't want to remove that duty of investigation entirely from the NAM, if only because it violates the law. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 220. The motion in part No. 221 belongs to Mrs Van Tongeren and deals with complex cases. It calls on the government, the National Coordinator Groningen, to give sufficient room for rapid and frank handling of all old complex cases. However, all old complex cases have been properly settled. Of the 195, 186 were solved. Nine have led to a final bid from the NAM which, in my opinion, is reasonable. There is therefore no need for further involvement of the National Coordinator Groningen. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 222 also belongs to Mrs Van Tongeren. It states that vibration recorders should be placed. In the case of an industrial installation, it is necessary that if something goes wrong, that installation will fail. That's something that needs to be there. That's dealt with in security plans. Those safety plans shall be monitored by the responsible authority. This motion does not add value to what is happening in this area. That's why I advise against this motion. In her motion in part No. 223 Mrs Van Tongeren writes that gas extraction should be reduced to below 27 billion m. As regards the period up to 30 September, a provisional provision has been made by the Council of State. We use the period until then to work on a new decision, for the period from 1 October. I would therefore like to leave it that way, while respecting the provisional provision made by the Council of State and focusing our energy on the new mining decision. That is why I have tabled Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on item No. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, The motion-Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 224 calls on the government to ensure that schools and care institutions are strengthened as soon as possible. All schools have been inspected. At the health care institutions, that work is in progress. All the necessary temporary facilities have been provided at the schools so that the safety there has received the attention it needs for the short term. For the longer term, we are not only willing to strengthen buildings, but also to see how this can be done in such a way that it has the greatest future value. This means that this motion has no added value to what is happening on this point. I'm gonna dissuade her. The motion-Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 225 on the cultural heritage in Groningen calls on the government to establish a Brim-plus regime. Since the Cultural Heritage Agency is now examining with all concerned what can best be done in the specific case of Groningen, I think it best that we wait and see what we can do about what should be done in the form of a new arrangement. The motion in part No. 225, I advise. The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 226 calls on the government to make the province of Groningen a frontrunner in the field of clean energy and energy saving, in cooperation with Energy Valley. It's a good ambition of Groningen to try that. What is now being done about reinforcements combined with zero-on-the-meter activities will be a very special step forward for Groningen. If we assume that this system of strengthening can be achieved by means of a new system of increase in value linked to the strengthening, then we can achieve this. So it depends a little on what is ultimately being done at this point, but I find it difficult to resist the fact that Groningen has the ambition to become a frontrunner in clean energy and energy saving. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion-Klever/Van Tongeren in part No. 227 calls on the government to delete the contour card. The contour map is an instrument for assessing the risk and taking responsible reinforcement decisions. We should not delete it, even though Van Tongeren co-signed that motion. So the motion in part No. 227, I advise. The Klever motion in part No. 228 calls on the government to reduce the cap on gas extraction to the maximum by taking conversion capacity as a starting point. The cabinet does not want to do that because according to the SodM this could lead to more seismicity. That is what we do not want. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 228 detachment. In the Klever motion in part No. 229 discusses the applicant's proposal for a buy-out scheme. As far as I am concerned, I have indicated what the buy-out scheme could look like. That's different from what Mrs. Klever says. The motion in part No. 229, I advise. The Smaling motion in part No. 230 calls on the government to invest the research into the effects of gas extraction completely independently; the NAM should not play a role in this. This is contrary to the Mining Act and the advice of the Security Research Council. The motion in part No. 230, I'm not sure. The motion-Smaling/Van Tongeren in part No. 231 is about tilt sensors. I said what I wanted to say about that. It is not my job to say which instruments should or should not be used. However, a study of the measuring instruments used was announced in the National Coordinator's multiannual programme. If this motion stays standing, I'll advise against her. But she could also be detained so that we can wait and see what the National Coordinator comes up with on this point. The study will be completed in the autumn. In the Smaling motion in part No. 232 indicates to the applicant that the government should include a number of factors mentioned by him in the analysis of the risks of earthquake damage and that it should include experts in these areas in the discussion. With regard to those PGA maps, those contour maps, Deltares is enabled, which uses a TNO database which looks at the deep subsurface and in which the various soil species are included. We are convinced that Deltares and TNO's efforts have made the best knowledge available in this respect and that all relevant aspects are taken into account horizontally and vertically. This motion has no added value and I therefore advise against it. In the motion in part No. 233 states Mr Smaling that the government must guarantee all the extra costs of future-proof construction. We have a new building scheme in which provision is made for these costs. We are working on what could be more important in the field of education and care due to future resilience. That's justified. However, I do not think it is right for the government to guarantee all the extra costs for future-proof construction. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In the motion at No. 234 is asked by Mr Wassenberg to draw up a scenario which reduces the extraction ceiling to 12 billion cubic tons of gas per year. I cannot do that because this will lead to large fluctuations which, according to the conviction of the State surveillance of the Mines, will entail security risks, the size of which I can only estimate in two to three years' time. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u378	Mr Smaling has another question on his motion for a resolution. 233.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u379	The Minister refers to "all additional costs," but the word "all" is not in the motion. So I wonder if that would change his judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u380	It says: "calls on the government to guarantee additional costs for future-proof building." This means that future-proof building will incur additional costs and that the government will have to guarantee that. That's not what I'm here for. I think that with a combination of a new building scheme and a scheme for education and care, we are doing what can reasonably be done. The motion makes it too broad in my opinion, and that is why I have advised her against it. In the motion in part No. Mr Wassenberg, co-signed by Mrs Van Tongeren, asked the government to impose the NAM in order to provide all relevant information for scientific research without hesitation. It also states that there can be no independent investigation at the moment, because the NAM is involved in each research, which does not ask the right research questions and lacks new insights. It contains such negative qualifications, which I do not think are justified and which do not contribute to what we want to achieve. What we want to achieve can be achieved by allowing the NAM to comply with its legal obligation, by maintaining the involvement and supervision of the SodM and by maintaining scientific supervision. In addition, a new body - a new body - should be set up, so that independent scientific research can be carried out under independent scientific supervision. I think we're doing it the right way. This motion is not an improvement on the regulation I am seeking. So I'm gonna dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u381	Do I understand correctly that the Minister understands the operative part in itself, but considers the qualifications for the NAM to be too negative? Is that the reason to discourage the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u382	Yes, but I also object to the phrase that the "NAM must provide all relevant information without hesitation." I don't have the impression that the NAM is an interference force. I am convinced that she is doing her best to ensure that the information I need for decision-making is made available through research. It seems like the NAM is now withholding information that should actually become available. This, coupled with the negative qualifications that stand before it, leads me to discourage this motion. In my opinion, she does not contribute to the solution. In the motion in part No. 236 asks Mr Wassenberg to allow the STEP scheme to apply to property owners. I have already indicated that, although we are running out of money for the increase in value, we want to continue in a different form, even in such a way that not €4,000 but €7,000, including €3,000 of the STEP scheme, will become available to both tenants and buyers. The word "buyers" is not good; the word "owners" is good. I'd like to do that. This is already in what I've proposed. There is another motion for a resolution that is the motion in part No. 242, which I am about to come up with, which says that it has to be different, namely that it must remain linked to damage. Then this will be in a different light. This motion contains what we have already proposed. The motion is therefore superfluous. That's why I'm telling her off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u383	I can hold the motion, but then it might be useful for the Minister to send information to the Chamber in the very short term on the criteria and on the details of this new arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u384	It depends on the Court's ruling on that. I'm still looking for funding for this new scheme. We will look at the statements made by the Chamber and what to do with them. I can't anticipate the situation. It's nice to have arrangements, but it's also nice to have coverage for that. Both things have to come together. I can't anticipate that. I cannot see it in the light of the debate we have now had. In the motion in part No. 237 by Mr Vos and Mrs Van Tongeren, it states that the NAM, the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator should be commissioned to take the broad concept of "damage." I do not quite understand what the problem is, because all the damage caused by natural gas extraction must be compensated. I'm not hiding behind definitions at all. I'm not saying "earthquakes and soil decline isn't" or "flow and something else isn't." All I'm saying is that any damage caused by gas extraction must be compensated. The Safe Living Centre is typically set up for earthquake damage. That's what it's all set up on. Research has not yet revealed any damage due to soil degradation, but we are looking at a second study to see if that initial study is right or whether we need to come to other insights. Every time soil damage is reported, the National Coordinator immediately sees it as a complex case. He then draws that towards him and he will ensure that that claim is settled correctly. The Centrum Secure Living and the National Coordinator thus guarantee in all cases a careful settlement of the claim. In this motion, the mission is to involve the Centre for Safe Living in other forms of damage than earthquake damage. This is contrary to the mission given to the Centre for Safe Living. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 237 by Mr Vos and Mrs Van Tongeren. In the motion-Vos c.s. in piece No. 238 the government is invited to investigate the possibilities of phasing out gas export contracts as much as possible and as quickly as possible. I am prepared to collect and send to the Chamber any information relevant to assess what is reasonable at this point. If that is what Mr Vos means, when he says "get that relevant information together yourself, that you draw a conclusion from it and that you submit it to the Chamber," then I can leave it to the Chamber to decide on this motion. With the motion in part No. 239 asks Mrs Mulder for a fund for the agricultural sector. We've set up the Economic Boards. This includes farmers; they are also entrepreneurs in the area. The Economic Board is therefore also relevant to them. I think the National Coordinator can make the conversation between those involved and the Economic Board happen; he can facilitate that. It will then be possible to look at what possibilities are now in the picture at the Economic Board and what additional possibilities might need to be created or changed on the basis of the consultations that will then take place. That's the way we have to do it. I do not think it is right to set up an additional fund for this, which is not covered either. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 239. In the motion in part No. 240 states that the government must make available to everyone affected by gas extraction the compensation and sustainability scheme of the multiannual programme with the same compensation. It also says that it is unfair now: on the one hand you get the facility and on the other hand you don't. The only facility we're talking about is the appreciation scheme. The damage will be paid for everyone. As far as the value increase scheme is concerned, I have now proposed linking it to the reinforcement scheme. This means that the resources still to be found for this need to be concentrated on a combination of strengthening and sustainability. So you don't have to deal with contour boundaries, because you start in the core area and on the basis of inspections you look at what needs to be done about reinforcement. That's where the appreciation comes in. This means that the motion does not comply with the proposal I made in accordance with the multiannual programme and with the position I have adopted on this matter. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 240 by Mrs Mulder c.s. Disruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u385	In his response to the motion, the Minister just gave part No. 239 that he wants to look together with the National Coordinator at what is possible at this point with the Economic Board in Groningen. That is precisely what I am concerned with: is a solution being sought and when is the Minister going to report to the Chamber on this? If he's going to put that back on us, I'd be happy to continue this motion, because it's my job to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u386	I appreciate that, but I can't say it any better than I just did. The compensation and sustainability arrangements are not a problem in my proposal to the Chamber. You start in the core area and you continue on the basis of inspections. There's no contour limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u387	This is about the motion in part No. 239 and not on the motion in part No. 240.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u388	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u389	My apologies to Mrs Mulder; thank you for the correction. Then I'm gonna get my act together. I can imagine Mrs Mulder holding the motion, waiting for what comes out of the consultations which the National Coordinator will take the initiative and then asking for a ruling from the Chamber on this matter. That seems to me to be a good way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u390	I thank the Minister for this action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u391	At the request of Mrs Agnes Mulder, I propose her motion (33529, No. 239). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u392	I have already dealt with the motion on part No. 240. I've already drawn my conclusions from that. Mrs Mulder didn't come up for that either. So I'm gonna advise against that motion. In the motion in part No. 241 Mrs Mulder asked the government to agree on a regulated use of conversion and storage capacity for the lowest possible level of extraction with the NAM, the Gasunie and GasTerra. I don't know what to imagine. In accordance with the SodM's opinion and following on from what the Council of State has made provisional provisions, we are now at 27 billion m for the 2015-2016 gas year. As of October 1st, there will be a new situation. I have already said that we are going to look at how you can react in the form of fine-tuning of the volume by making optimal use of storage and conversion capacity, even if the wind is less cold than you first thought. I already told you. I do not understand what this adds or removes from it. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 241.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u393	I would like to clarify this point. It's about what the minister's basic attitude is. If there is a very mild winter, does he agree with the parties mentioned in the motion? So is he willing to get less gas, so it's up to 27 billion cube and you can get lower too? If that's how the Minister explains the motion, I'll look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u394	I already told you I'm gonna do that. We're on the 27 billion. I have already asked the NAM to take a specific look at whether, in the case of a winter that is not as cold as was originally thought, the proper use of the gas in Norg and the use of the conversion capacity in the current year could lead to consequences for the volume. I'm already doing that. I don't know what else this motion wants from me. I already turned this off at the NAM. The outcome will then be discussed in the decision-making process before 1 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u395	The CDA is concerned with preventing the decision on 1 October that all such matters should not be applied. I'd like to make the conditions clear. If the minister says he's gonna do it at all, I'm a satisfied person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u396	I'm not gonna do it at all. I did say to the NAM: look at the instruments that are obvious, namely storage and conversion, what possibilities there are for reacting to a cold winter. I already turned that off. I'll see what comes out of it. We will involve this transparently in the decision-making process. At that time, the Chamber may also have an opinion on this. Mrs Mulder made two separate points. I've already said something about the hotline. The Safe Living Centre is the hotline for any earthquake damage. Damage caused by soil degradation, which has so far been found not to be due to gas extraction, is immediately considered a complex case and therefore the National Coordinator Groningen follows the proper handling of the claim. With the social steering group, we are in consultation on how we can get a window available for people who are asking attention to things that can be all kinds of things that play outside the direct damage. I think that's a good idea. I do not know exactly what Mrs Mulder wants from me with regard to the premises. I have already indicated that the value increase scheme only applies to dwellings. If she wants to hear anything else about that, she'll have to clarify it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u397	One of the components that the National Coordinator Groningen is going to pick up is the sustainability of the homes. I call zero-on-the-meter. My question was: how does it actually work in industrial buildings? There are problems there too. How does the Minister view this? How's he gonna pick that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u398	There are no specific schemes for farm buildings. There is the ambition, if you are going to strengthen, to also do more about sustainability. We have focused precisely on this amount of €7,000, including the amount of the new value increase scheme. The Court has expressed views on this, namely that the increase in value should be linked to damage. Depending on what we are going to do with this, it also has an effect on sustainability: it may not be able to continue in the way we intended. At least that's just about housing. I have absolutely no option at this time, also because of the total lack of resources for this, to extend it now to industrial buildings. That's not the point. That scheme therefore does not apply to farm buildings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u399	I can imagine that, if companies suffer from cracks and the like, it would be useful to combine things. Does the Minister see a role for the Economic Board in this? Is he willing to ask the National Coordinator Groningen to discuss this with the Economic Board?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u400	Any damage suffered by entrepreneurs to their buildings by natural gas extraction shall be compensated. There's no doubt about that. All that damage has to be compensated. In order to provide an economic stimulus to the area, the NAM has made 65 million available. With an additional €32.5 million from the province, almost €100 million is available for this purpose. That amount is intended for economic development. This is particularly the case for entrepreneurs. They're not in the picture when it comes to what we just discussed here. This was intended only for and will continue to be aimed at homes and citizens, not business buildings and entrepreneurs. The motion in part No. 241 I didn't advise. In the motion in part No. 242 said Mr Bosman and a number of others, cum suis, that the government should come forward with a proposal for the maintenance of the bonus scheme in the old form or for a similar arrangement when dealing with the spring note. I have indicated my objection to this. The money's been made up in two years. So the money's gone. I believe that making new money available is only justified if we allow it to benefit the group that is most affected: those whose homes need to be strengthened. There we can also achieve the greatest sustainability gains, both for tenants and for owners of homes. In my view, that is the best way to achieve the increase in value. Keeping it linked to damage in the current situation is suboptimal to me. I don't stand for it, and I didn't defend it here either. The cover is also missing here. Cover is already lacking for what I want to do, but there is no cover for continuing the existing scheme. The Bosman c.s. motion. in piece No. 242 I therefore advise against for several reasons. With this I have been able to advise all 25 motions. I hope that the Chamber will follow these advices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u401	Let's talk about the final motion. The minister is looking for money for his arrangement. In doing so, he says he will focus on sustainability, because it benefits those who suffer most from it. Now it may be that we are going to strengthen and strengthen houses that have no damage, but are in an area that needs to be strengthened and preserved. There are also people with damages who do not receive compensation. So it's a trade-off. The Chamber has said that the people who actually have damage are really in pain. If the Minister finds the money for his arrangement, we as a Chamber consider it important to link it to damage, especially for the people of Groningen. That's the heart of the chamber motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u402	I find linking to damage less desirable for various reasons than linking it to reinforcement. By linking to reinforcement you reach the group that is even more important, namely the group that suffers the most nuisance. Moreover, with an investment linked to reinforcement, you can achieve the most sustainability gains. That is why I think that is better than what Mr Bosman is proposing. In addition, there was an amount that was included. The money for five years has been made up in two years. For 31 000 applications, a payment of €4,000 is on top of the damage. So a lot of money has already been spent on this issue. Now I have made a proposal which I believe is better than the one put forward in this motion. That's why I'm not advising the Chamber on what's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u403	Mrs Van Tongeren, I think you are also under the motion, but it is customary for the first signatory to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u404	I know that is common practice, but would the President allow me a small final final question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u405	A very small one, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u406	Is it true that the region has been agreed that the original scheme will apply until 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u407	No, an increase in value has been fixed for a period of five years. It has been provisionally implemented, a provisional increase in value. It worked out in such a way that all the money was drawn up in a period of two years. So the money just ran out. We had a five-year administrative agreement, in which there was 132 million for an increase in value, out of my mind. That amount has been drawn up in two years. Then you can say, "It's over." I didn't say that. I have said that I consider this increase of value to be important for the area. The fact that people suffer damage is important, but that people suffer a lot from the reinforcement is also important. So let's try to free up extra money and put that money where it has the most effect. That's the proposal I made. The motion goes the other way. That's why I dissuaded her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u408	I don't want to make it worse, but for me, the motion is and-and. So it's not either strengthening or compensating for damage. We need to pick up the scheme in the MJP and maintain the value increase scheme. That's what I mean about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u409	Mr Smaling, as one of the signatories, knows better than anyone what he meant when he signed that motion. I will not contradict him on that point. That's his own approach. Mr President, may I make one final point? I have something to report to the Chamber regarding the relationship between the Centre for Safe Living and the NAM. My question has shown that cooperation agreements have been reached on the performance of tasks between the Centre for Safe Living and the NAM. In addition, there is the private law agreement between NAM and CED and Arcadis. I don't want to make that private-law agreement public. It's not my job to do that. As a government, I am not entitled to say to private parties that they should disclose their private law agreement. However, I can make the agreements between the NAM and the Centre Secure Living about the performance of tasks available. That's what I'm gonna do. So that information the Chamber wants will end up in the Chamber. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-24.u410	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the officials, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate over the Internet.
