ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Undercapacity in the police to deal with child abuse, a shortage of trusted doctors, too little training of professionals when it comes to using the code, waiting lists at Safe Home: so there is a lot of work to be done. However, international investigations show one thing: a reporting obligation does not work. What does this Secretary of State do? He opts for false security and introduces a covert reporting obligation. I'm sorry about that. The developments confirm that there has been an exchange between the PvdA and the VVD. We find it incomprehensible that a solution that is not a solution and for which evidence is lacking has been chosen blindly. We fear losing children in the system. That is why I have tabled two motions today: one with Mrs Keijzer and another motion, because there is a great deal of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u3	I wonder if this is in order. We certainly talked in the debate in September about whether or not to introduce a reporting obligation. However, on 12 January we received a letter from the Secretary of State in which he made his plans really concrete and on which we will have another debate on 9 February. I understand from the words of Mrs Bergkamp that she responds to the concreteness on which we will have another debate. That's why I'm not sure. I would like to have a debate before making a judgment on such motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u4	That is indeed a procedural remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u5	I applied to the VAO a long time ago because we were awaiting a letter from the Secretary of State on how he will deal with the obligation to notify, the obligation to register. Now we've got a progress report detailing his plans. I've postponed this VAO twice. The reason for this was to be able to respond to the State Secretary's plans regarding the obligation to notify. That is why I am standing here now and I would like to read my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u6	One last interruption, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u7	I would like to point out that this is out of order. If the Secretary of State makes his plans concrete in a letter which we will be discussing on 9 February, we must first have the debate on this. Mrs Bergkamp is talking about this, but I would like to make it quite clear that I cannot rule on motions for resolutions on a debate that still needs to be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u8	I understand what you're saying. You put it clearly. After the motion has been tabled, you can always choose to vote for or against it. Maybe Mrs Bergkamp will hold her motion or she will or will not put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u9	I hope that Mrs Agema will take into account the fact that I opposed the VAO twice because we were waiting for a letter. Now we have clarity, which is why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 20 November 2015 the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport (34300-XVI, No. 135) indicated that it was not in favour of the introduction of a reporting obligation;]] [[considers that the registration requirements appear to be a covert reporting obligation, due to the fact that the registration at Safe Home calls for the provision of personal data, which calls for a legal breach of professional secrecy;]] [[calls on the Government to seek information from the Council of State in order to examine whether the proposed obligation of registration constitutes a legal, compulsory, breach of medical professional secrecy and thus a reporting obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28345-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u10	I have Mrs Volp on my list now, but I don't see her in the room. I call Mrs Keijzer on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. My introduction is actually the same as Mrs Bergkamp's. A reporting obligation is now being introduced, the Secretary of State calls it a non-working registration requirement. The goal you want to achieve, namely to combat child abuse, is not being achieved. In fact, this leads to a huge reservoir of reports. Also abroad it appears that those years have not yet been selected. Even pediatricians are against it. The Secretary of State nevertheless puts it in place and then in such a way that it is not quite clear what he wants. This issue is too important for that. At the end of last year we were confronted with major problems in the organisation Safe Home. I find it inconceivable to read in the letter that the working methods of Safe Home should be strengthened by developing the work that is being done there. Then I think: will we not first try to get things right there before we confront the organisations with reports of everything where there is a suspicion of child abuse? That's why the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u12	There are now all kinds of things being posted here for years in the debate on the basis of a number of investigations. I would like to ask Mrs Keijzer a question. Does she think that the old Hague protocol or the child check, as it is now called, is not a good measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u13	I would point out that this discussion has been extensive, including in various general discussions. This is a VAO, that is to say, the conclusion of previous debates. Any questions should therefore relate to what is now at issue and what was not entirely expressed during the general consultation. It is not intended to repeat the debate. I also ask Mrs Keijzer to respond briefly and I ask her to read out her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u14	Short response to such a question is complicated. I think it is right for me to read the motion and to await the State Secretary's assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u15	I disagree. This is a relevant question relating to the statement made by Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Bergkamp. This was part of the debate that took place in October. Now there's a VAO. I believe that we have the right to ask a question now that all kinds of things are being posted here as if they were truths like a cow. I put a question to Mrs Keijzer which relates to this subject and I would like to receive an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u16	Then I can be brief: a child check is something other than a reporting obligation. There is a child check when someone with, for example, addiction problems reports to organisations and then it is examined whether the person in question has minor children living at home. So that's different from what you think: this is someone with an addiction that has children, research shows that children of addicted people are getting worse, it's complicated and we can't completely rule out child abuse or neglect of children, which is also child abuse; and then we have to report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u17	I suggest you proceed with the reading of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u18	This indicates what nonsense is being debated here, because the child check does not even check what is going on. It is only found that there are children and then a report goes to Safe Home. That's the child check and in those cases is checked. It turns out that 91% of children are indeed in a situation of abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you, Mrs Van der Burg. On 9 February, the subject will be discussed extensively in general consultations. I believe that the substance of this debate should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u20	Think about it. You finally report to someone because you have a problem with an addiction and immediately, at least in the experience of Mrs Van der Burg, a report goes to Safe Home. They're gonna drown in the reports there. They will no longer be able to see the cases where something really is going on and the aid cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u21	I think this indicates that we need to have the debate first. It's about such a small block from a 26-page letter. What Mrs Keijzer is saying is factually incorrect. It's not about the suggestion of child abuse. I would like to make it clear here that the fifth step of the reporting code has long and wide shown that there is child abuse and that there is still a balance to be struck. Mrs Keijzer shakes her head, but that is completely unjustified. She's really violent about this. I think the debate should take place first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u22	I suggest you proceed with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u23	I'll be brief. The letter explicitly states that there is a need to be reported to Safe Home if there are suspicions of child abuse. It's no different. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Safe Home Organisations are already suffering from undercapacity, leading to waiting lists;]] [[believes that it is necessary to examine how much additional capacity, and resources, Safe Home needs to ensure that children are not lost in a system that may be flooded by notifications;]] [[Considers that the registration requirements provide for an additional job at Safe Home, for which a risk assessment should be carried out;]] [[Calls on the Government to pass on the proposed plans and to assess the expected costs, and to have a risk assessment carried out on the possible impact on children by the Trimbos Institute, and to inform the Chamber on this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28345-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u25	I've got six seconds. In this I would like to say that I am standing here, because that is what we share here, for a good policy to prevent and deal with child abuse. We're only fundamentally different about the way we do things. Many people who do this work on a daily basis at least support me and Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. I looked at what the debate was about and thought: we have already discussed a great deal, including the DB or the DOT in the case of child abuse. It's a very complicated story, but it's about getting treatment for abused children. I have made a very nice motion for the rulers to do so. So I'm reading to her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is important that children who have been victims of child abuse have access to treatment to prevent mental problems or disorders;]] [[noting that the current situation is that treatment should not be used until there is already a psychological problem or a mental disorder, whereas treatment could be prevented;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that child abuse treatment can be used to prevent disease or disorder,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28345-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u27	That is exactly the problem the Secretary of State mentioned in his letter. I'd like to get the promise that this will be taken care of. As indicated above, we are indeed having a debate on Safe Home on 9 February. There will indeed be a lot of exchanges, including on reporting obligations. I do like to mention that Defence for Children and ECPAT have made a quick scan on Safe Home Organizations. We have received a fine letter on this subject, with recommendations and concerns. I ask the Secretary of State and possibly the Minister, in whose area this is partly located, to respond to this quick scan. Then we can have the debate in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. It has already been said that we have a wide-ranging debate on 9 February. Mr Bergkamp, supported by us as other Members of Parliament, has requested a debate on the situation at Safe Home. That's what we're gonna do extensively. We are dealing with an extremely serious subject. In the Netherlands, an average child is abused in each class. On average, a child dies every week from abuse. Of those an estimated 118,000 abused children, we're missing half. That is why I have thought carefully about how we can better deal with child abuse, because that is what needs to be done. At the legislative consultation held on 16 November last. I've submitted a plan for that. This is about better detection, better combating, better treatment of children and also about prevention. I am pleased that the Secretary of State and the Minister are at least carrying out and adopting this plan in their progress report. I think we should have the debate on this on 9 February. That is why I am only making this statement briefly, because I wanted to express my gratitude to both rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u29	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr. Chairman. I will give a brief explanation of the motions that have been tabled, bearing in mind that on 9 February we will be discussing in detail the progress report which I sent to the Chamber very recently. I understand why this VAO is happening now, because it has been discussed in the previous debate and I have now sent the progress report. I think, however, that Mrs Agema has rightly pointed out that we are still going to have an extensive debate. I assume that we can have a number of discussions. Two motions deal in detail with what has become called "the registration requirement" in the progress report. I have two comments to make, and then I come to the explanation of the motions. We're talking about situations in step 5 of the code. It is not a question of whether there may be child abuse. No, step 5 of the code doesn't reach for nothing, as Mrs. Agema said. There is then a serious suspicion of child abuse, where there are action options: either report, where the case is taken over by Safe Home, or deploy a journey yourself. The registration requirement aims to send a signal to Safe Home, so that people know about each other. I think we are still talking about the ins and outs of them. The Chamber has already seen that we still have to weigh up all kinds of regulatory proposals on this issue. However, I would like to say the above, because it may have got mixed up in the debate. I have tried to listen as closely as possible to the task force and to the Kinderombudsman. I think we are very close to his remarks, as is Mrs Dettmeijer, the National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking, who has made a number of commendable comments on this point. I would therefore ask the House to look at the proposal as closely as possible in the course of the debate on 9 February, as well as the debates and recommendations of the various consultative bodies, so that we can have the debate in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u31	I ask the Secretary of State to come up with a supplementary letter, especially because I do understand the feelings of my colleagues. When assistance is used, this should often also be reported to, for example, Safe Home Organisations. I understand the organized distrust of aid workers. Can the Secretary of State address the concerns raised by my colleagues so that we can have a full debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u32	I have tried to indicate in the progress report what I intend to do. Where it helps to come up with a more detailed explanation or to look at it in the light of the opinions we have received in preparation for the debate, I am certainly prepared to do so. I would point out, however, that the intention still needs to be worked out in further legislation and regulation, and we will continue to discuss in detail the ins and outs, the pros and cons and the risk assessment. Now there is a progress report containing the intention. It is good to talk about this on 9 February. Work will then be carried out in legislative and regulatory areas. So there's still every chance for the Chamber to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u33	I think Mrs Kooiman's suggestion is a good one. Suppose a professional advises on certain care, for example if there is a fighting divorce. That's child abuse these days. The doctor advises to use a mediator. Is this supposed to be reported to Safe Home? Perhaps the Secretary of State could take such a case with him. The Secretary of State also states that the task force and Mrs Dettmeijer have spoken. Has anyone spoken to the KNMG, the LHV and the PO Council? Has it been spoken to all sectors, to the doctors, to the teachers, who should eventually start with them in practice? Was that also spoken of and if no, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yeah, all the time. This is exactly a subject on which there are differences of opinion. It's just that there's a difference of opinion. There is also a difference of opinion in time. That has to do with the question we are talking about. Here's what I'm gonna say. I would like to emphasise this, because the debate is always a little bit underneath it. We're talking about step 5. Step 1 is mapping the signals. Step 2 is peer consultation and, if necessary, consultation of an expert in the field of injury interpretation. We have discussed this in detail. Step 3 is the conversation with the client. Step 4 is weighing the risk. Step 5 is deciding what to do. It seems to me that it is right to go into detail on all the opinions we receive from all the bodies. I take it very seriously. That is precisely why I have tried not to go to the flat reporting obligation, as Mrs Bergkamp has said, with the registration requirement, but to see if we can ensure that there are signals so that we can get the children on the radar as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u35	I want to ask you...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u36	But you're right, Mr. Chairman. I think we are actually having the debate on 9 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u37	For a brief remark, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u38	My question was not about the different steps. Yesterday we received signals from the medical organizations, which are really angry and surprised. Secretary of State says he tuned it with the field. I would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u39	If the doctors' organizations say they're surprised, so be it. I note, however, that we have spoken very extensively about the reporting code and whether or not we have a reporting obligation. In this Chamber we had an exchange of views on how we collect all this information. As a result of this debate in Parliament, I have been asked to come forward with a further proposal. That's what's in there now. So I think it would be good to talk about this on 9 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u40	Now the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u41	That also means something for the explanation of the motions. In the motion in part No. 154 the government is asked to obtain information from the Council of State in order to examine the issue of compulsory registration. I'm just paraphrasing. The motion is partly premature and partly superfluous. It is premature because we still have a whole debate. It is unnecessary to consult the Council of State. If we do it, it will lead to legislative changes and then the Council of State will automatically be consulted. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion. The motion in part No. 155 gets the same explanation. The request is for the proposed plans to be passed on and an estimate of the costs. All this will indeed be dealt with in the preparation of a possible legislative proposal. This means, of course, that we have to make a risk assessment and that we have to look at the implementation consequences and the costs. That's right. That is precisely why I have announced my intention to the Chamber. That way we can have an orderly process. The Chamber can share with me whether it supports the intention. If that is the case, I will continue with the further development and deal with all these points. If the Chamber does not support it, of course it will not. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Mrs. Kooiman asked for a response to the quickscan. Mrs Volp has put questions to the House in this context; a response to this is still received from the Chamber. Insofar as that response to the quickscan has not yet been given, we shall do so. I'll see if it's enough. I come to Mrs Kooiman's motion on item No. 156, which I qualify as redundant. The system is set up on it. It's up to professionals. Treatment is possible at any stage if it is considered necessary by the professionals. If we are going to have that debate, we may be able to cross it for a while, but I would advise against the motion because I consider it superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mrs. Kooiman, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u43	The Secretary of State states in his letter that it must first be established that there is a mental disorder. Therefore, current treatment is often insufficient. In particular, KOPP children should also be able to benefit from the aid. That's really not possible right now. That's why I filed the motion. It's also quite contrary to the Secretary of State's letter. If he denies the motion, I would like to ask him for a letter before the forthcoming debate as to why it cannot be done. In that case, I can hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mrs Kooiman refers to the KOPP children. I'd like to see a letter on that one anyway. Will I encourage that letter to come to the Chamber before the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u45	If that is possible before 9 February and if this motion is accepted, then that is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u46	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u47	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u48	At the request of Mrs Kooiman, I propose her motion (28345, No. 156), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 156/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-14-tweedekamer-7.u49	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next week.
