ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue with the debate on the attacks in Brussels. I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the group chairmen for their second-term questions and comments. I would like to propose that my answer be given along three lines. First of all, I would like to address the question raised by the chairmen of the political groups as well. What lessons do we draw from this case? Secondly, I will deal with the question whether we have done what we could do in the case we are dealing with, on the basis of the information we had at any given time, given the division of roles that we have agreed on and of course also given the rules we have agreed on for that purpose. This applies both to activities in the Netherlands and to activities in relation to Turkey. Thirdly, I would like to talk about the question: do we do what is necessary and ensure that the services that are active in combating terrorism, have the skills they need and have the equipment they need, so that we can build on that confidence that they are able to do what is needed when the need comes? I would like to start with that first question: what lessons do we draw from this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u3	The Chamber will, as it should be, decide at the end of this debate on the basis of the Minister's answers whether or not he enjoys confidence. Before the Minister starts his speech, I would like to get an answer to the question that I asked both in my first term and today: do you think, Minister, that you are still fit to remain at your post in view of what has happened in recent times? You don't know the facts, as it turned out last week. You got the sources mixed up. Messages were not read. Terrorists could keep walking around freely. Officers from the DSI came up with complaints. I can go on like this for a while. Even members of the coalition parties say, unfortunately cowardly and anonymously, that it is not really possible anymore. Isn't there a moment when you think to yourself: am I still the good man in the right place in this time of fighting terror?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u4	I see it as my job to ensure that the services under my responsibility have the skills to combat terrorism effectively, have the equipment to do so and, on that basis, have the trust of society to undertake those activities. It's my job to take care of that, and I'm going through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u5	That is actually a very lean answer to perhaps a question of conscience that I am asking the Minister. He's talking about equipment and other things. Of course, that's okay, but with my question, I'm referring to something else. At a time of terror, the Netherlands needs a minister who not only has the confidence that he can handle it, but is also supported in his own party, whose seat legs are not cut. I think, and I think the Netherlands think that at the moment, too, that you, Minister, are more chasing the facts than you are chasing the terrorists, while you were hired for the latter. Are you not now afraid that, if you survive this debate, it will ultimately be a political balance between the coalition parties; the opposition often fails to let a ruler leave you as a drunken game? In fact, you already are, but then you will remain, perhaps with the best will in the world and with the answers that you like. But we can't afford a terrorist minister, a minister responsible for fighting terror, who's drunken game. Think about it. I've asked you many times. I think you might be able to make a different assessment, and then I'll put it very neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u6	The suggestion to think about that, I would like to consider. I'll do the same. You always have to do that. But like I said, my job is very simple. I believe that all those who work in the Netherlands from early in the morning to late in the morning, day in, day out, at night and during the day should be able to make a full 100% commitment to guarantee the safety of the Netherlands, that they have the resources they need to do so, that they have the skills they need to do so and that the extra money we have spent to ensure that they can do their job optimally, there really is and is being spent on them. That's my job, and I'm going through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u7	I think the Minister of Security and Justice knows what to do, but the question is whether he is the right person to do it. I would very much like to know from the Minister whether he thinks that, given all the blunders that have been made in his term of office, these blunders can be forgiven and forgotten and he can simply continue his task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u8	As Mrs Thieme knows, it is up to the Chamber to express its confidence in the Minister or not. I think it is very important to carry out the task I have been given in full responsibility. Mistakes can be made, including by me. I am always honest and realistic in that. This also applies, for example, to the question of where the message came from in America and its coverage. That is also one of the points raised by Mrs Thieme in her term. It goes without saying that it is incredibly annoying when it turns out later, with all due care I have taken on that point, that this has been an assumption and that it has been another American service. I myself saw the e-mail that said: from the FBI we obtained the following information. If you find that this is a mistake, it is important that you, as Minister, correct that error immediately. We did that the same night with a letter lying on the mat at the Chamber the next morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u9	The Minister now mentions a small error that is indeed relatively small in the series of mistakes made by the Minister, but we have seen a series of sorrys over the past period. It is also important to realise that mistakes can always be made, even if you are the director and captain of security and justice. But in this case, the Minister is against appearances and he doesn't even have the direction. If you don't have the direction of something, you're probably not the right man in the right place. Doesn't the Minister share this conclusion with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u10	No, I do not share that conclusion with Mrs Thieme. I would have stayed with the question of what we are learning from this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u11	I'd like to ask another follow-up question. The Minister has indicated to her what his task is. I share with him that this is his job. He says that he is still in a position to do so. The next question is: will he be able to carry out this task? Is he gonna be able to make room for the entire ministry? Can the Minister do his job? Is he gonna be able to make room for the Minister of Finance to close the gaps? I'm just mentioning a few things. Or does the Minister have a positive view of the task, but is it not right that he should not be able to carry out this task for that reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u12	When I look at the functioning of my department and of the services for which I am responsible, I am primarily confident that the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are fully committed to the fight against terrorism and security in the Netherlands. That is my absolute conviction. I will do everything I can to enable them to function optimally. If we have to talk about the finances or the spending of the money we have spent in recent years to invest in our effectiveness in this area, that is my job. I'll run those calls and report them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u13	I'm sure we'll get back to you on all the details. This is an introductory shooting. Maybe the minister can reflect on the following. If the Minister says "I'm capable, I'm capable and I'm capable" and "we invest financially in it, so that's no problem either" and "everyone in my ministry is loyal and does what needs to be done," why have we had so many problems all along?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u14	I do not recognize Mr Roemer's impression that we have had a great deal of problems all along, looking at the fight against terrorism that we are talking about today. We have the DSI that is maximum ready to guarantee security. We've appointed additional district attorneys. In recent years, they have conducted a large number of criminal investigations that they have successfully brought to justice and resulted in many convictions. This comes on top of all the activities we have already undertaken: with the local communities, with the municipalities through the district agents, in the case consultation, through the training of teachers, through the trainings for persons with potentially radicalised persons. If I get the chance, I will present the items on that list to you one by one, to show that everything is being done in all areas, from prevention to repression, to ensure the safety of the Netherlands. On that basis, we must establish that we are doing what we have to do. In the meantime, we must also note, also in this case, that we must always learn, adapt our working methods and be able to improve our materials as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u15	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u16	I almost get the feeling that we really wouldn't have to have had this debate if it were up to the lessor. And we have already had the necessary, even with the minister's predecessor, about the ministry, about what has gone wrong, about the police and about the services. The Minister is actually saying: we have everything in order, it is all right and we have done what we had to do. Let me give the Minister one thing from my first term as a tip. For my group, it is important that we can say today that there is a minister here who recognises what is going on, who knows how to appoint it and who can convince the Chamber that he has the right solution. It doesn't help that there's a minister who denies anything in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u17	I suggest that the Minister continue with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u18	Let me say, in response to Mr Roemer, that I have just begun to say that it is very important that every time, day in, day out and from minister to the people in my department and in all the implementation services for which I am responsible, we are prepared to always learn, always be critical of ourselves, to improve things if that is what needs to be done and to keep on calling on people to do so. That is also the essence of the VenJ Verwacht programme, which I started with my secretary-general to actually implement that message in my department. I really think that we owe it to ourselves to ensure that we are always willing to learn, to develop and to adapt to the ever-changing circumstances that arise. This certainly applies to this area, to the fight against terrorism. In the letter I sent to the Chamber, I indicated that the essence of the improvements I see before me is that we should be proactive, assertive and alert. These three key concepts are important in many areas. Firstly, they are of course important in the field of the exchange of information between public authorities, organisations and services at international level. This is essentially about timely and direct contact, but above all about context information. Only a proactive, alert and assertive attitude fits the current threat we are experiencing. We have to be on top of it at every level. That goes for me, too. We must not only do what can be done in criminal matters, but above all do what we can, beyond those rules and above those rules. This means that we must always be prepared to take one more step. Very specific in this case means that we have to try to make sure that there is a hearing. When people arrive in the Netherlands, we must always see and speak to those people. It also means that we need to check and ask control questions, even if the Belgian police inform us. This applies not only to the police but also to the Royal Marechaussee, the liaisons and the embassies abroad. At my request, these principles will be worked out by all the services concerned and will now be implemented, for example by the police in the form of a work briefing and a briefing for all police liaisons working in the field of counter-terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u19	I'll see if you have anything to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u20	Perhaps I can make two more points, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yeah, I suggest we do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u22	The chairmen of the political groups have rightly said that European cooperation is of great importance. This is true again because this case shows that we are mutually dependent on each other's national security. That is why it is so important that we use Europol and the European Counter Terrorism Centre to optimise the exchange of information. That is why it is also important that we have the Counter Terrorism Group, in which the intelligence services improve their information exchange. And, of course, we have cooperation within Eurojust for the Public Prosecutor's Office. As far as I am concerned, I must ensure that all these activities and improvements are monitored and that I am on top of them myself. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u23	As far as I am concerned, the Minister's response is going in the wrong direction. At least it happens in the wrong order. I think it is wonderful that we are getting things announced again, but that is what we have had in previous debates. As far as I am concerned, we will look back first and the Minister will also answer the questions that were still open, about the matters that have been involved in the expulsion from Turkey. The important thing is this. I heard the minister say, "I'll start the lessons." For my group, it is very important how the Minister himself looks back on the statement he made the day after the attack: nothing shows that the Netherlands could have done more. I'm not asking about the ministry, I'm asking about the minister himself. Why did he make that statement and how does he look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u24	This question was also put to me by Mr Pechtold in the first debate on this subject. That verdict was about what happened on July 14th and July 15th. We noted that the note was not read on 14 July. We also found that on July 15th, the question asked to me in the media, the Belgian liaison informed the Dutch liaison about the return of El Bakraoui to the Netherlands. Next, the Dutch liaison did what he had to do. He had the Dutch systems consulted and he had the international systems consulted. There was no hit in that. In the context of the lessons to be drawn, we now find that, even if that is what you can expect from someone at that time, you can also ask the question whether there are any control questions to ask the Belgian liaison. What information do you have from this man? What do you know about this man? That information was not provided and those control questions could have been asked. I believe that we can see together that in some of these areas these improvements are possible. I also think we should do that, and I have just indicated how we are going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u25	If the Minister is interested in the way in which my group ultimately looks at its functioning, I recommend that he look at the systems and officials a little less and more at himself. If he only focuses on "The Netherlands couldn't have done anything about the story with Turkey" it is extremely painful if you visit there, exchange gifts and make agreements about working groups, but if Minister doesn't know for five months that such a working group never meets, and isn't after that either. Now he says very euphemistically: we hope that, when the European Presidency is finished, it will happen before the summer. This shows no sense of urgency at all. I am not talking about officials, services or organisations, but about the Minister. I believe that the Minister should reflect on his own actions, direction and statements at the start of the debate and at the start of his answers, and then we can answer the outstanding questions. That will be very important for the atmosphere of the debate and for my group to assess whether the Minister is aware of the seriousness of the situation and of the mistakes that have been made in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u26	Let me begin by saying that, of course, I agree with Mr Pechtold that as a minister, you must always be prepared to look at your own functioning. I do that with some regularity. If mistakes have been made, I declare that I take responsibility for them, and if I have to apologize for them, I am accused of having done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u27	I take offense to that, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u28	No, not you, but I was accused of that in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u29	I asked a very clear question. 236 questions have been asked, they have been asked and asked. If it had been up to the Minister, we would have had a debate here two days after the attacks. It was the opposition who said take another week. It was the opposition that had to come up with things over and over again. Until today, there have been loose ends and the Minister is chasing the facts. I ask the Minister to reflect on that. He's politically responsible. I ask him: how do you look back on the past few weeks, especially on the unspeakable image of the months before? Then we will get back to it in a moment, but since the Minister himself said he wanted to talk about the lessons first, my point is that the most important lesson is always with politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u30	I've already answered that. I have already indicated that I think that I too can be expected to be on top of it and that I optimally fill in the monitor function I have. I therefore disagree with a number of points raised by Mr Pechtold on where mistakes would have been made. I think it is precisely on the basis of a careful analysis, which I have also sent to the Chamber, that we must say that from the Dutch services on the basis of the agreements, rules and roles we have made together, it cannot be concluded that what should have happened did not happen. I have indicated, however, that that is the lesson I am drawing for myself too. We must always make sure that we take one more step. That's what I expect from my people. The Chamber can expect me to do the same, and I will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u31	Five minutes ago, the Minister said there was nothing wrong with getting a list of what needs to be done better in five minutes. Maybe it's just a matter of time, let's just say. My question concerns the following. What the Minister said sounds to me and also to a lot of people at home, I think, as usual, normal working behaviour. So the question is why this should now be taken as a lesson. Why did it come to this that this wasn't normal behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u32	In many cases, that is of course also the normal treaty of all people, of all those loyal people working hard day in, day out to do their job optimally. But the force field in this case is about cooperation between the Dutch, the Belgian and also the German police authorities with their respective roles, responsibilities and agreements. There you can see exactly that we are responsible for what the Belgians do and the Belgians are responsible for the way we carry out our tasks. It's good to keep asking control questions in that relationship and so always asking: what exactly do you know, are there more things you can do? If, for example, Belgium decides to issue an alert in the SIS, whereby the Belgians opt for a silent alert in the context of their investigation, we must ensure that we know this and that we can also ask why they did not issue a European arrest warrant. We must also ask whether the Belgians have more information that might lead to another step. These are all examples that we can learn from this particular incident and which I think we should do. That's what I'm telling you. I have already told Mr Roemer that we must keep learning at all times. If we don't learn in the fight against terrorism, we're not doing our job together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u33	This is a little socially desirable behaviour: I would just like to point out which things can be improved and then I said what we should do. But let's be serious. After Charlie Hebdo, we also had this kind of debate. Then we were told the same things: this has to be better, that has to be better, that we are going to work on and that has been agreed. We have just heard about the agreements between the Dutch and Turkish officials. It's still the same. We all get the feeling here that there is still no urgency and that there have been no real fundamental structural improvements in recent times. The Minister still does not recognise or wills or dares to acknowledge that too many things are still fundamentally wrong. In order to force and propose real improvements and to give confidence that the Minister is able to do so, must he be able to say clearly where it comes from that it has hardly made any progress in all these years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u34	I believe that Mr Roemer's conclusion does not reflect the enormous commitment we have made in recent years and the enormous steps we have taken in recent years. When I look at where we were three years ago in this field, a great deal has happened, both in the Netherlands and in the cooperation between the Dutch and the other services as well as in the European field. The list I have described in the letter is long and it should be long, because the risk, the threat, is very serious. We must always commit ourselves to improving and making progress in this area. I really do not recognize that in Mr Roemer's list. If we were to draw that conclusion here, I think we would be failing all those people, commitment, changes, improvements and the policies of the last few years that have been achieved with the full agreement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u35	Excuse me! After Charlie Hebdo, we have already concluded that cooperation between the services needs to be significantly improved. Today we recognise that again. We have also said that the pressure on the police force in the Netherlands is far too great to prevent things. Today we conclude that again. Even Mayor Aboutaleb confirmed that on the board today. We said that much more cooperation was needed, including between Turkey and the Netherlands in the area of exchange. But today it appears that these countries have never been together. I can also list such a long laundry list. We are almost repeating the debate that took place three years ago. The Minister does not express the sense of urgency, so he is looking for the core of the problem. I'm not waiting for very long lists of this could be better and I can do better. Because if it does not work in three years, why will it succeed in the next three years if we do not dare to get to the heart of the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u36	We are using the policies of recent years precisely because we are constantly looking at the points where we can improve. In each case, after every horrible event, we keep looking at whether we need to do or change anything in relation to the strategy we had. Do we have to change the M.O.? Should we improve materials? Should we improve cooperation? We have, of course, also taken real concrete steps towards improving cooperation. I admit immediately to Mr Roemer that this is not easy. I look at my own role as President of the JHA Council. The subject is always on the agenda. We also involve the Dutch services. We will ensure that the European counter-terrorism coordinator writes reports on the cooperation that does not lie about it. Our commitment from the Netherlands is optimal. We are doing what we have to do in all these areas, but in the meantime it is taking a lot of effort. That's what I'm trying to do. I am fully committed to this in order to ensure that these agreements are complied with in Europe. It is very important that this happens. No one's doing anything about that around here. I'm totally committed to that, too. Mr Pechtold asked me whether I was saying that there was no indication that we could have done anything else or better to say that this also applies to the whole process. The question was then asked on 15 July. For the whole process, given the lessons I think we should learn, I would find that statement too firm. That's never been my intention. That is what I said to Mr Pechtold in the first period of the debate. It was a question that was asked me after a specific point: did we do everything we could when the man was put back? I also said: we did not see that note, we should have seen it. As he has been able to read, we have taken measures to this end. By the way, it remains that this is the only note we have not seen and that the Turks have always followed the way to have direct contact, except in this one case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u37	The Minister indicated that it is not enough if it goes by the book, but that he really expects, including from the services, that more active, more proactive, more assertive and alert is being looked at about what more can be done than just follow the rules of the game and consult the systems. I couldn't agree more. I also think that this is a really positive change in relation to the debate last time. But does this also mean, when he looks back on his own functioning and his own role, that he was at first too much on that legality and that he could have focused more on that assertive, alert and proactive in the way he gave political direction to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u38	That goes without saying. Now that we have dived into the roots of this case, you can see exactly where that proactivity could have been and could have been better. That goes for me, of course. If I have noticed that, I would have liked to know earlier, and then I would have liked to have taken action earlier. I knew the division of roles we agreed upon and considered very important. I see now, more clearly than before, that powers can only be exercised in the Netherlands if, on the basis of the legal basis, we believe that they should be exercised, also, of course, because of the impact that police and prosecutors have on people. In the meantime, however, we note that if we are in charge of another country, whether it is with us or with Germany, Belgium or England, we must ensure that these interfaces are close to each other. That has become more clear to me than ever before. I really think that this also means, for me, that I need to be sharper in the discussions I will have with, for example, the Turks, but certainly also with the Belgian colleagues, whom I have already spoken, and with Germany and England, for example, with whom we work a great deal. I will be that myself from now on, because I have now seen where the theory is conclusive but there can be concerns in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u39	I think that is a clear text, but it also means that it should continue to work on capacity in all kinds of areas. Does the Minister also see that, when we talk about police and Marechaussee, which he will probably come back to later, it is not only necessary to consider whether the capacity is sufficient to do it at least by the book, but also whether the capacity is really sufficient for that proactive, alert attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u40	If that active attitude and alertness means that it cannot be done by one and the same person, it will certainly be a subject we should look at. As I said, it is my job to ensure that people are skilled and that they have the equipment to gain the confidence to do the job right. That's my job. That is also true on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u41	The sad thing about this day is that we obviously need all this to show the Minister himself that he has been insufficiently alert, insufficiently proactive and insufficiently assertive in the past year. The Netherlands should be able to assume that the Minister of Security and Justice is one assertive, proactive and alert from day forward. That this isn't the case, it's not in the performance. It's in the top. I have here a message from February 2014, such a rookie press release from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "The Netherlands and Turkey are going to cooperate more closely in the fight against terrorism'. That is from February 2014, under Timmermans, who does so because "Dutch jihadist fighters" are a "threat to internal security." The Netherlands must be able to assume that this is being done. But what does it turn out to be? The next press release isn't until the end of 2015. Then it is Minister Van der Steur, among whom there will be a start of an official working group, which is not yet there. Because what does the Minister say? They are "satisfied with the good cooperation so far. Especially in the field of drug crime." And: "The same goes for the approach of jihad travellers." If a Member of Parliament reads this, I say to the Minister, then he must be able to assume that it is true and it is settled, and not that later in a debate it appears that the first official working group will not take place for another five months, two and a half years after that raging press release on better cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u42	I fully understand the concern expressed in Mr Buma's question. If you put his presentation of the facts so side by side, you'd say: what's going on there; is that going to be okay? But then we have to look at how the cooperation was in 2014. The cooperation in 2014 between the Dutch public services and Turkey was completely different than it is today. The exchange of information has greatly improved since then. We have had little attention to it, but so have our side of the exchange. We will make sure that the Turkish authorities know when travellers from the Netherlands go to Turkey, so that they can be stopped there. That's what's gonna happen. These are all developments that have occurred in recent years. There's actually two tracks coming up. On the one hand, there is the working group that I have agreed with my colleague, the Minister of Justice. That working group focused on broad judicial cooperation. It was mainly about exchanging experts over and over again, but also about improving legal aid. We have a lot of criminal cases with Turkey, including in the area of terrorism. It's kind of hard to get all the information about it. That is one of the concrete tasks I went to Turkey with in November, to the Minister of Justice. The Minister of the Interior is responsible for combating terrorism. As you have seen in the letter I sent to the Chamber, I have discussed it regularly and discussed it with him. The official preparations are just in progress. In December, a month later, in accordance with the agreement with my Turkish colleague, I indicated that we should make arrangements after the summer. The joint working group is scheduled to take place before the summer. The Dutch working group still has a couple of dicks to crack, among other things in the field of the role of the ECHR in that cooperation. Mr Buma also knows that we have had a very frequent exchange of views in the Chamber on the situation in Turkey and how it deals with the principles of the ECHR, freedom of the press and that sort of thing. These are all elements that need to be carefully weighed, and we do. So that working party's here. We're working on it. The Turkish-Dutch working group will take place before the summer, so that we can make agreements after the summer. So there really are two tracks. The trail of terrorism is a daily activity, not only of me, but also of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, as I showed in the letter. The working group on judicial cooperation is in progress and will be completed in accordance with the original planning. I think it is a good thing that I point out that this working group, which runs according to planning, does not mean that there is no urgent need for cooperation with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u43	But this is still not an answer to the question of how it could not have been agreed immediately after February 2014. Surely it is incomprehensible that the way in which jihadists return from Turkey to the Netherlands is not provided with an underlying arrangement? You can't blame any outsider for that, can you, except you didn't pay attention to it yourself? "You as a minister" then, because I would never address him here with "you."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u44	In itself, I understand the question very well. When I look back, I'd say, shouldn't we have done that before? At the same time, we note that the method used has always led to a notification, has always led to context information and has always led to the correct follow-up in the Netherlands. So in that sense it is not true that there is a gap in the relationship between Turkey and the Netherlands, but I do have concerns about it, as I put it in the letter. This concerns in particular the timeliness of the notifications. I'm really not happy about that. Those are the points I have also addressed with my colleague. Looking at what we knew about what didn't go well, we've always brought that to the attention of the Turks. Looking at what we now determine by what should be better, we're just going to do it. I immediately took the necessary action on this matter last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u45	If the Minister states that he is proactive, alert and assertive and that he should be, then that cannot apply only after a year, but it should have been from the beginning. For proactively serious agreements and therefore not only the expectation that things will work out well, to get the member on the nose afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u46	But I would point out to Mr Buma that this is exactly what we are doing and not just at ministerial level. It is not the case that the two talks between ministers suddenly lead to all the solutions. It is precisely the operational, executive level that is at stake. I indicated in the letter what an enormous amount of contacts there is at operational level on an almost daily basis with the Turkish authorities. Cooperation and the way in which it is always discussed. So the suggestion that Mr Buma makes that something should be decided in 2014, then that something should happen in 2015 and then never again until last Monday, is just not what the facts are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u47	We started a debate on terror last week, and that soon became a Van der Steur debate, and that was very uncomfortable for the Minister and for us. That had to do with March 16th. Information was then exchanged from the United States with the Netherlands. When questions were asked, the Minister said: I do not know of the nature, I do not know what happened and I do not know where it came from. There was a very great inconvenience about that, a lack of urgency. If we ask whether that has changed, we are told that the minister is going to monitor, that he is on top of it, and that he needs a little extra on top. Those are commonplaces. What shows that the urgency that was missing last week is now there and that something has really changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u48	That change will take place on the basis of the instructions. The working instructions that the police are going to give to the liaisons also apply to the liaison we have in Washington, just as they apply to the liaison we have with the federal police in Belgium. Those working instructions are there, and the briefing is given so that this case is taught concretely. This also concerns the way in which information from the New York Police Department in this case will be transmitted to the Netherlands. In order to reassure you, however, I can say that the wide-ranging research that we have done shows that on that 16th March the information led to what we could do. We immediately checked that information in our own systems and found that the information was correct and then we had discussions with the Belgian authorities the following day, with further information, in this case for the first time, namely that Ibrahim El Bakraoui, according to the Belgians who were in charge of the investigation of both brothers, was possibly radicalised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u49	This is not about one case and this is not about who, when exactly what has said and where there has been a write error in official documents. This will ensure that, as Mr Buma has just referred to, the lack of urgency, namely that in 2014 you announce something that has still not been achieved in 2016 and that the Minister comes to a debate and does not have a clear view of what took place on 16 March. That is a lack of urgency. Then we can talk about casusism and then we can completely dissect everything by date, but what we are talking about is whether we do realize that it's five past twelve. We are now in Brussels after the attacks. Everything must be done to win this battle. It's about the urgency. We need to feel it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u50	I fully agree with that. I also understand very well that Mr Segers is asking me to do that again. The threat level in the Netherlands is substantial. That means that we and everyone who works under my responsibility must take into account the possibility of an attack day in and day out. Everything we can do to make sure it doesn't happen has been set up. We are doing this through prevention, which I know Mr Segers has regularly brought to my attention, but we are also doing so by regulating everything that is necessary and what we can do in the area of repression. If it happens, how soon will we be on the scene? How effective can we act? Those are the two lines we have with each other at that point. I think it is right for Mr Segers to ask that question, and I hope I have been able to reassure him with my answer. Because of the levels of threat, everyone is aware of the fact that this possibility can also occur in the Netherlands. As much as I would like it to be different, Mr Segers also knows that I cannot guarantee 100% safety. I'll do everything I can to get it as close to 100% as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u51	I understand that very well, and we always have to ventilate that truth. Indeed, we can never give 100% certainty on maximum safety. What we must give is the guarantee that we have learned from Brussels. Suppose there is another El Bakraoui with such plans tomorrow, then what guarantees us that we will have that man sooner and better in mind? How does he guarantee us that we can act sooner, that the Netherlands is safer and that citizens are now safer than Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u52	This interruption really sees the question of whether we are being informed in good time with the right context, in this case by the Turkish authorities, that someone is being evicted. Last Monday, I confirmed agreements and made new agreements on what my colleague in the Interior and I believe should be done. Those agreements will be recorded in writing, but then it will have to be monitored. Mr Segers is right in saying that, and that is why, as I have said, I will really do so. Mr Segers is absolutely right that it is essential that we take action if we find that there is a gap here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u53	I believe that I think that 'the minister's monitoring function' is already the words of the debate. One thing is very important for confidence in the Minister and the question of how the approach will work in the future. Many colleagues have actually made a move. The answers are now better than in the previous debate, but what I would like to hear is not where the mistakes have been made with Turkey and Belgium or how things can be different in the processes. Actually, I just want to hear a few words: I could have done better. It is only when the Minister says 'I could have done better' that confidence can be restored, at least in my group, that he will be better on top of it in the future and that this kind of error will not occur in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u54	Of course. I have already said that the first person to ask whether he did something wrong or could have done something better is the Minister himself. I have therefore already indicated that my contacts with the Turks and my conversations have always been as I have described. However, I have not been sufficiently up to date to ensure that these agreements have actually been implemented. I fully agree with Mr Klaver that you should also say as a minister that, after the talks with the Turks, should I not only have the confidence that they are being carried out, but also have to check it? I agree with Mr Klaver. There are also in other areas... I give the example of the letter with the communication from America. Before I sent the letter to the Chamber, I saw the e-mail that says "this information comes from the FBI." However, I have learned from that that if we took three days to answer 166 questions from the Chamber, with the intention and my conviction that we must ensure that we also meet the deadline set by the Chamber, it would probably have been wiser afterwards to say 'I am taking a little longer to be sure that the debate does not get bogged down, as it did last time'. I have already indicated to Mr Klaver and Mr Pechtold that in these areas a minister must always ensure that you have the same willingness to learn and learn as the others. What I do object to, however, is that Mr Klaver does not suggest that it is suggested that enormous risks have arisen from mistakes made by the Dutch. That reproach cannot be made, but what can certainly be done is to learn lessons and, in particular, to learn about this proactivity. And that goes for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u55	That's the next step and we're about to talk about it. We are now talking about drawing lessons and the question I asked was whether the Minister would like to say literally 'I could have done better'. I think that's what the Minister is all about. He says that it did not go well, that he acknowledges that and that he also has to learn lessons from it. But the minister could have done better, and I just want to hear it from this minister. It is very important for my group that I hear him say that in order to establish a good basis for building on one another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u56	I think that's what I just said. I'm taking lessons. I should have been more on top of it in order to make those agreements with Turkey a reality. I should also have checked whether it was true or what we had agreed on was being implemented and whether we saw improvements. The answer is, moreover, that after November the information system has improved, but it has not become optimal. I should have asked. I should have addressed this and should not have waited until January to have the conversations with my colleague, but should have done so earlier. That is an example, but there are other areas where I could have done better in terms of being on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr. Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u58	This is the third chance I've given the Minister. There's a big difference in saying you have to learn lessons, because you always have to learn lessons, even if something goes well. I always expect a learning attitude from this minister and from everyone. I expect people to want to do better and learn lessons. But that's not the question right now. The question is whether this minister acknowledges that mistakes have been made, including by him, and that he could have done better. I'm a little tired of him diving away every time saying we have to learn lessons. I just want to hear from him that he made mistakes and that he could have done better. It seems obvious that he has to learn lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u59	I think that Mr Klaver is right when he says that as a minister I should be prepared to draw lessons, to indicate that in a debate with the Chamber and to indicate where I have done so. However, I am not going to say to Mr Klaver that mistakes have been made. There's a simple reason for that. I would like to draw Mr Klaver's attention to the letter, to the matters that have happened and to the information we have received. In the letter we worked out for the Chamber what happened at every step, what the information was, what the legal frameworks were and what should have happened. On no subject can you say that mistakes have been made. What we did put in the letter and what I said here in the debate is that that does not mean that you cannot take another step. That is the lesson we must learn, both me and the organisations for which I am responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u60	I won't ask a new question, but I'd like to see if I can get the conclusion straight. The Minister actually says: The Netherlands and I haven't made any mistakes, but I can see that we can do better in the future. That is what I draw from the Minister's answer: no mistakes have been made, but it can be done better. Like Mr Pechtold, who started this round, I would advise the Minister to take one step back and perhaps look at his own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u61	I do that every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u62	Then I'll draw the conclusion: this minister doesn't wear the penance rug. But what if that suicide bomber, El Bakraoui, had committed an attack in the Netherlands? He could travel to Schiphol. He was able to land in the Netherlands. He could stay here indefinitely, wasn't spotted and could just go ahead. Suppose, in a very serious case, that he had chosen the Netherlands as his place for his attack, for example Amsterdam or Rotterdam, had the minister ate the fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u63	As Mr Bontes will understand, I cannot answer this question. This is a speculative question. I can't say yes or no to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u64	It might as well have happened here because this suicide bomber just wasn't under review here. He could just do what he wanted. He could do whatever he wanted. So it might as well have happened here. This minister does not attract the penance rug and seeks the solution in management language, in words such as assertive, alert, proactive, systems and monitors. If something doesn't match the fight against terrorism, it's management language. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u65	Combating terrorism is an incredible amount of people in a number of services in the Netherlands that day in, day out, doing what they have to do to combat the risk of an attack. These people do so with full conviction, in possession of all the information and materials they need. We have invested extra, 128 million in recent years. We have improved the materials and hired more people. We do so because we know that there is a concrete, serious threat against the Netherlands. That is why we are doing everything we can to keep the Netherlands as safe as possible. So I do not recognize the suggestions made by Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u66	It's not about the services, the policemen and the AIVD who have to do their job. It's the one they're running today, the minister. With these answers, he can't convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u67	It is not only my job to direct them, it is mainly my job to ensure that they are able to do their job at the level at which it is to be done. I do that task every day, with full responsibility and being aware of the seriousness of the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u68	I would like to go back with the Minister to one of the lessons he gave himself some time ago. It concerns the exchange of information at European level. My group has indicated that it is concerned about this because of its non-binding nature. The Minister indicated that he would pay more attention to that. I think we need to go one step further and come up with new proposals for Europe to make Europol work better, for example by obliging the 28 Member States to actually deliver their information to the anti-terrorist centre. Is the Minister prepared to consider what specific concrete proposals the Netherlands can make during his presidency?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr Samsom is absolutely right when he finds with me and others that there is a vulnerability in the provision of information. Although we have decided to set up that anti-terrorist centre, which is an important step forward in relation to the past, the same is true for the counter-terrorism group at intelligence level, which is indeed a matter of concern. I would be happy to discuss this point with the Members of the European Parliament, as Mr Samsom pointed out. I am sure that there will be colleagues who, given the experience, will be prepared to take a positive view of this. So I'd like to be willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u70	Then I'm gonna go one step further. It is not just about Europol, but also about the exchange of information and information. We have talked about the somewhat obstructive quid pro quo approach used there in the exchange of information. Is the Minister prepared to propose a solution to this problem, so that all the information available, in any European country, can be shared immediately with other services without waiting for any consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u71	On this point, I can reassure Mr Samsom a little more than on the other point, because the platform of that counter-terrorism group, as we have proposed and implemented, addresses precisely this point. It does mean that in due course it will be necessary to look at how this is going to develop, but the necessary steps have already been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u72	I find it really disgusting, I have no other words for it that when about the entire opposition asks the minister a very small bit of self-reflection, his answer is: I'm actually doing great, everything is going well, there's nothing going on and you name it. It is true that these are texts that are mainly technical in nature: drawing lessons. Let me tell the Minister that the next of kin no longer have the luxury of learning lessons. They can't do that anymore, because the people responsible are failing, causing people to die, putting people at risk. We need a minister who will hunt down terrorists, who will catch them, who will put them in jail and who will do so in advance and not say afterwards: I will start to learn my lessons. We didn't stand here last week for nothing for a whole Thursday, did we? You screwed up after you screwed up. Then why aren't you able to at least say, "I made mistakes, I screwed up?" If necessary, you choose your own words, but not just those non-binding texts for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr Wilders asks whether we are active enough with our services to minimise risks in advance. I refer him to the facts. The prosecution has more than 100 criminal cases against people who are associated with jihadism. Many of them have never left the Netherlands, because we have ensured that they do not leave the Netherlands. Meanwhile, in the Netherlands, a series of judgments have been made by judges against people who have been given prison sentences, because they wanted to leave, because they have collected money for jihadist groups or because they have somehow contributed to it. Our policy is to do everything necessary to keep the Netherlands as safe as possible, both in advance and in the form of preventing radicalisation. I want to continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u74	That's bullshit. That's not true. This minister is responsible for the fact that Syrians, people who have been in Syria, simply return to the Netherlands and are not detained. About everyone here, from coalition to opposition, has made proposals. I have seen the CDA make proposals to secure returned Syrians in psychiatry or something like that. I have heard the chairman of the VVD group say: I propose to make it criminal if people go to Syria. My own party has been calling for administrative detention for ten years as long as we exist. But you wipe everything off the table. You say no to anything from opposition or coalition. And the Syrians are coming back, they are coming into the Netherlands, they are walking around the streets and they can do tomorrow, they can do today what they did last year in Paris or this year in Brussels. So don't fool the Netherlands that you're proactive. You're not, but you should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u75	I share the concern expressed by Mr Wilders, who sounds from his words. We all know that there is a risk when a Syrian is trained and returns to the Netherlands. However, Mr Wilders also knows that the number of returned Syrians has been very limited in recent years. And Mr Wilders also knows that when people return from Syria, there is always a criminal investigation, that these people are arrested, that there is provisional detention if there is suspicion of a serious and serious criminal offence and that they are also convicted. That is what we stand for, and that is the policy we implement. This will also be done in such a way as to minimise the risk of the attacks that Mr Wilders warns of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u76	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u77	It's just not true. There are dozens of people in the Netherlands who have returned without being trapped. We have already seen in 2014 that a returned Syrian has committed murders at the Jewish Museum in Brussels. We've seen at Charlie Hebdo that two returned Syrians have committed murders. We see it every time. One, two, three is enough to blow up and kill dozens of people. Again, those are people who no longer have the luxury to learn lessons, those are people who are dead because rulers like you don't have the guts to secure every returned Syrian in any way. We can talk about anything, but you don't, and that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u78	Precisely for the reason Mr Wilders points out, the danger that we attach to returned Syrians, we have taken all these measures. In response to Mrs Van Toorenburg's argument about administrative detention at the time, in the direction of Mr Buma, I indicated that this does not fit in with our legal system. Mr Wilders knows that too, because he has asked for this on several occasions. I have indicated that I have now included a ban on the area in the law, which I hope will soon be dealt with in plenary. I have attached an anklet to that, precisely to meet that concern. If we're not able to take someone into custody by then, we'll have the opportunity to keep an eye on someone like that. Of course, the legal authority will have to decide on this, because that is the system that we have in the Netherlands. I would now like to continue with the Dutch approach to counter-terrorism. I've said a few times that we make sure that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u79	Before you go any further, Mr Pechtold has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u80	I have asked a series of questions about exactly what happened. In each debate we hear new measures or old measures in new press releases. I just want answers to the questions that are still open and that I have put in my term today. Then we'll find out what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u81	I'm looking at the Minister to see if it's possible to answer the questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u82	I shall then begin with the questions that have been asked about the expulsion of people by Turkey. The method used so far is that we receive direct information from the Turkish police. In a very limited number of cases this was supported by a note via that portal on which we have already discussed extensively. On 14 July 2015, that direct information was omitted by the police. But in all other cases in 2014, 2015 and 2016 it was given. The method at the embassy has now been adapted so that messages can no longer go unnoticed. All messages are now translated by default and submitted to the department heads. I have made the arrangements with my Turkish colleague, who I have already indicated. We will make these agreements in the very short term. Furthermore, we will be asking the Turkish authorities, as Mr Zijlstra suggested, to cooperate with us in order to expel Dutch nationals only to the Netherlands. This is to reduce the chance that it will not be reported in time and that people will be expelled through another Schengen country, which will not give us the opportunity to act properly. That has always been the case so far, if I look at the examples from 2015. However, we have identified this as a risk and I believe that we should minimise that risk. I have also promised that I will do so in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u83	Was the portal on which the message about El Bakraoui came in, a portal for terrorist reports, as the Minister of Justice said, on which, I believe, six messages had come in, five of which had been seen and not only this one, or was it something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u84	In the first debate, I looked into this, also in response to Mr Pechtold's questions in the first period, I made it quite explicit that it is a single portal, on which all information and all communication from the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs is placed for the benefit of the Dutch embassy. So that's all, ripe and green, mixed up. Also in the second letter we indicated that there were 91 messages, indicating whether they were "urgent" or "very urgent." The letter also states that this was only the case for a very limited part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u85	Why didn't the next day, when it was clear that El Bakraoui had been deported, call Turkey about this jihadist?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u86	I have just indicated that I think that could have happened and that it would have been better if we had. By the way, we know that when the Belgian liaison called the Turkish authorities, he did not receive an answer, but we should at least have found that out ourselves. So I think this is an example of proactive action. Even if you get an official message, even though there is no recognition among the people involved, I would remind you that El Bakraoui was in no way detected in any system, either European or national; the man was not known and therefore did not pose a risk on the basis of the systems, I think you should expect to make a phone call with the Turks to find out whether that is the case. We can only guess why that didn't happen. We only know what we know and that is that the Belgian liaison called and even asked a written question, because that was the assignment he was given. He didn't get an answer until January 11th. The following day, the person concerned was also reported by the Belgians in the SIS. Mr Roemer asked about improving the exchange of information with police liaisons. I have indicated how we will do this, that this will lead to a method that will be shared with the liaisons and that this will enable the improvement to be achieved. I have also indicated that I will ask myself for this regularly. Mr Klaver asked the same question: why wasn't there a call with Turkey at the time? I have just indicated that I think it would have been wise to do so. We know from the Belgian information that this has not led to additional information, but you should at least try it. The same applies to the questioning of the Belgian authorities: what exactly do you know, you really don't know, shouldn't we worry about this man? This applies to the whole process of cooperation with the Belgian authorities. Even though it might not have to be according to the rules we agreed with each other, yet you should have the proactivity and the alertness to ask: whoa, wait a minute, what exactly are you doing with these men and is there possibly a threat to the Netherlands as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u87	I would like to zoom in on the contact with the Belgian police liaison, because that was there, on 15 July. So far, we have always looked at what information was available for the terrorist or jihadist motives of El Bakraoui. Was there at any time in those days shared by the Belgian liaison that this was a Belgian criminal, someone convicted of armed robbery with kalashnikovs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u88	No, that was not known and was not shared with the Dutch authorities either. That information was only known in a national alert in Belgium because of the fact that El Bakraoui had violated his conditional release.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u89	So, if I understand correctly, the Belgian liaison did not at any time share with the Netherlands that this was a man convicted in Belgium for the armed robbery and that he had also violated the conditions of his conditional release by travelling to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u90	No, that's not shared. I think that is a point, even if it might not have led to the conclusion that he would have been radicalised or that he would be a different risk. It was not until much later, in January, that the possibility of alerting him was used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u91	We are talking about someone who had been sentenced to ten years in Belgium, was in the picture in Turkey and at some point was in the picture in the US, but was not seen in the Netherlands when he passed here. If that happens again tomorrow, will the alarms go off?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u92	I have said that, in a European context, we have agreed that the investigations are, in principle, carried out by the country in which the person concerned is a national or a resident. This is also stated in our law: these are the first two determining factors on the basis of the first articles of our Code of Criminal Law. This means that you are dependent on the country of which someone is a citizen for the prosecution of someone who has not committed crimes in the Netherlands or who does not have that intention. There's exactly that abrasive element: if it is, we have to make sure that when we get signals about someone, we know that the other country does what that other country has to do. That's where the proactivity is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u93	The Minister says you have to. Is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u94	That's what's gonna happen, because that's how the system works: if the minister says it has to, it's gonna happen. I have indicated that I may be expected to perform that monitor function. I have already told Mr Pechtold and Mr Klaver that I think I could have done better myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u95	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u96	"Monitors" isn't exactly a very reassuring word. We really want action and action. The estimated 2,000 non-registered and off-screen travellers should be shown. If one country has someone in sight, the other must get that information. This is not about monitoring or an extra step, but really about hard agreements and very clear actions. What are the hard agreements and the clear actions that are confidence-building?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u97	With regard to the way the police liaisons will operate with each other, but also with regard to the way in which the Netherlands will operate, for example together with the Belgians, but that is of course true for all countries. We need to be sure that if criminal investigations are carried out in Belgium on both brothers, for example, no relationship with the Netherlands will be skipped. One example is that immediately after the attacks in Paris, five Dutch policemen and people from the Public Prosecutor's Office went to Paris, precisely with the aim of establishing whether there was any link with the Netherlands. If so, we would have to take immediate action. In Brussels we didn't have to, because there we had and have a police liaison with the Belgian federal police, who has precisely the task of saying: wait a minute, is there a relationship with the Netherlands? Nothing we know so far about both brothers, except the arrival of El Bakraoui on July 14th, shows that there was a relationship with the Netherlands, but you must be absolutely sure. That is exactly the point of this proactivity and that change of method. I cannot carry out the procedure myself, but I have to supervise it as a minister. Then I come to the point that Mr Segers raised. He said we have about 2,500 registered foreign terrorist fighters. I can reassure him on this point: there are now 4,714 registered foreign terrorist fighters in the Europol Focal Point Travellers. And that doesn't make the news any better, because this is an incredible number of Syrians from all over Europe. They are all analysed by Europol. Fortunately, it is no longer true that only five countries have implemented registration. Member States are providing this information more and more. The Europol Focal Point Travellers is part of the European Counter Terrorism Centre which we have created specifically for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u98	The Minister only agreed with the Turks three days ago that there is a direct mention of jihadists travelling; jihadists being arrested and deported. That deal was made three days ago. Why so late? The attacks took place a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u99	I indicated that the working methods of the Turks and the Dutch in 2014, 2015 and 2016 led to direct contact between the police authorities in all cases where expulsion took place, via the Focal Point, on which I also wrote in the letter. In one case this has not happened: in the case of El Bakraoui. The facts of El Bakraoui suggest that we should firmly anchor this process in two areas: context information and the fact that we get that information in good time. That is not always the case, but it is essential, especially if we do not succeed in making the agreement with the Turkish authorities that Dutch people should only be expelled through the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u100	That's a lot of words from the Minister. It is clear that these agreements with the Turks should have been made much earlier, immediately after the attacks. But that only happened a few days ago. They are also new agreements, because otherwise they would not have been made either. This shows that there is insufficient focus and a lack of sense of urgency in the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u101	I have already discussed this extensively with a number of spokesmen. I myself believe that we should have established these agreements earlier, but it is not the case that the method has led to very many cases of no reports being made. That is not the case. It is true, as I wrote in the letter, that if you look at those cases, those reports should have taken place once in a while, especially in the case of Dutch people who are expelled from another European country. After all, you need time to agree with the services of the other country on adequate reception and measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u102	You have just been on this point, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u103	I have a brief question because the Minister gave important information. Last week we heard that some 2,800 extravagants were registered, but now the Minister reports that there are about 4,700. Can the Minister send a letter with more information on what has happened and what improvements have been made? It was about the number of registered passengers and the number of unregistered extra-travelers who were worryingly high. The Minister is now coming up with new information. It would be helpful if we could also get that information in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u104	I have no objection to that. I'm gonna take a look at my officials. Can we take that in a separate letter? Yeah, we'll do that in a separate letter. There is also really good news about this. Let us not forget that good news!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u106	I come to the other questions. I have to take a look, because many questions have already been answered in the interruptions. Mr Klaver asked whether it would be desirable to link the national lists at European level. Let me say first of all that, following the attacks in Brussels on 24 March, the agreement was reached with the Ministers of the Interior that we will very soon be getting a proposal from the European Commission to do exactly what Mr Klaver says: linking data files. I expect that this will still have some feet in the earth, because it is quite a job to protect the privacy of people in it. We can also really have a debate on this issue with each other. However, we have noted that linking systems is of great importance, especially when it comes to linking fingerprints to other information that we have from people in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u107	I'm still in that reconstruction of that El Bakraoui. Where was El Bakraoui between 15 July 2015 and 22 March 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u108	There is no information on this. By the way, there is no reason to assume that he was in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u109	What happened between March 22nd and today to see where El Bakraoui was between the time he landed at Schiphol Airport in the summer of last year and when he blew himself up on March 22nd?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u110	This question was also raised in the written round of questions. The answer to that question is that those actions were not carried out for two reasons. Firstly, there was no reason to carry out those actions. Secondly, the Belgian authorities are in charge of the investigation. If they feel that these questions should be put to us, action will be taken immediately, as happened with Khalid El Bakraoui. At that time, via Belgian Europol, it was asked to find out whether he might have used an airport in the Netherlands, which was not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u111	I really don't get this. It's been a few weeks since the attack. One of the terrorists arrived at Schiphol Airport on 15 July. Then we'd like to know where he was, wouldn't we? Then it is not a question of whether the Belgians come with a request? Then we'd like to see some footage of Schiphol, wouldn't we? Was he picked up? Did he get in a taxi or a train? Did he have a cell phone on him that we can track next? Did he go pins? Because after a month in Greek prison and maybe with some liras in your pocket, how do you get through the country? These are essential data to reconstruct whether this man was perhaps here in the Netherlands, what he did, what he prepared and who else he came into contact with? Perhaps with suspected terrorists in the Netherlands. Then we're not gonna wait for a Belgian request, are we? After three weeks, why doesn't the Minister know what happened during that period? And why has he not yet taken the initiative, for example, to reconstruct through the images of Schiphol or with other data what has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u112	Because, as I explained in detail in the letter, we are only able to use powers in the detection and prosecution of people if there is a competence in accordance with the law. This means that you must have the concrete suspicion that someone in the Netherlands has committed a criminal offence, is a Dutchman, which is not the case, or is a Dutch citizen, which is not the case, wanted to commit or have committed a criminal offence in the Netherlands or there is a risk of it. Then our law, which we have agreed upon with each other and which we all find, and in any case found, gives that these legal safeguards are of great importance, that competence. It comes only when those conditions are met. It's in our law. The Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office and the Dutch police are therefore not allowed to engage in these activities if there is no real suspicion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u113	But he blew himself up! You want to know what happened in the last few weeks and what he did here in the Netherlands? Has he travelled directly to Belgium, yes or no? Was he picked up by boyfriends, yes or no? I am talking about a terrorist who blew himself up in Belgium and who is now, I hope, trying to reconstruct what he has done. The Netherlands is an important partner in this, because he landed here. This was his first destination in Europe. He asked to be deported to the Netherlands. Then we want to know, at least three weeks later, what happened during that whole period? So the Minister... I'm just starting to wonder. So the Minister states that our services have not been working since the attack to see what happened at Schiphol Airport on 15 July? That our services aren't checking his credit card records, PIN records, phone records or anything else? He's not a suspect, he's a perpetrator, and he's gone!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u114	I understand very well that Mr Pechtold is asking that question, but I really must point out to him that we do not have the competence, however much we would like to do. That is laid down in our own legislation. We've made agreements on that. We cannot use these far-reaching powers until there is real suspicion. That goes for the police and for the D.A.'s office. I am not only the Minister of Security but also the Minister of Justice. If the Belgian authorities have reason to explain that question to the Netherlands, which they have not done so far,... If the Belgian authorities ask us that question, they will receive an immediate answer and we will take immediate action. The Belgian authorities ask us that kind of question and then we take action, but I cannot, of course, make any announcements about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u115	Mr President, I hope you understand. He's not a suspect, is he? He did it! His name is known. He blew himself up on Zaventem. Six months before that he landed in the Netherlands. Is the Minister saying that we can't reconstruct where someone who blows himself up has been? Now I'm going to keep the Minister's words, because a week before that, on 16 March, El Bakraoui was reported as a suspect with his brother. Suspect? He was on parole because he had just shot a cop with a machine gun. Can't we reconstruct what happened at Schiphol Airport, if he was picked up by friends, and how he got his resources to go from Schiphol Airport wherever he went? I'd like a comprehensive answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u116	That's perfectly described in the letter. I understand very well that it is very unsatisfactory for Mr Pechtold and others, because I understand very well that we would like to know this in person. However, the Dutch police and the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office can only operate under the Dutch law, which we agreed with each other a long time ago. There's only one way we can ask these questions. Those powers are not subject to legal restrictions for nothing. These are legal restrictions which are of great importance not only to D66 but to many other parties. If we want that different, we need to talk about it. One thing is certain, it can only be done if the authority is there or if there is a request from the Belgian authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u117	Then call the Belgians and say: I'll put down now, call me back and ask if I can look at that footage at Schiphol Airport. Are we so stuck in protocols and monitoring that we haven't been trying for weeks to reconstruct what El Bakraoui was doing here at Schiphol Airport and where he then stayed? Are we not interested in the question of who he came into contact with because the Belgians haven't asked us yet? If they were listening, I'd say call now and get to work. Why didn't we do it ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u118	Again, as I explained in the letter, we did not do so because we do not have legal powers to do so. We have made very clear agreements on this with each other. If the Belgian authorities had seen reason to ask us to do so, they would have done so long ago and we would have responded. We're doing the same thing. In practice, it has also been shown that action is taken immediately if a question is asked. Look at what we did in Rotterdam. The French authorities asked a question and immediate action was taken and arrests were made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u119	I think this is an extremely unsatisfactory nonsense story, if I may be very honest. There is a terrorist, not a suspect, but a perpetrator, who blew himself up in Brussels and who was in the Netherlands. Mr Pechtold's question is entirely justified. There is a Dutch interest, because the man has landed here in the Netherlands. Of course we want to know who this man has been in contact with in the Netherlands and whether there are any other friends of his in the Netherlands. If certain conditions have to be met by law, you can call your Belgian colleague and say: even if you have no interest, I have an interest, so tell me to do so. We have an independent interest in the Netherlands in finding out who he was in contact with and whether there are any other terrorists who may be staying in the Netherlands. After all, you knew that he had landed in the Netherlands. So don't come up with the story that you haven't been able to control this because of the rules. You should have picked up the phone, called your Belgian colleague and said: now give me the order to do so, because we have an independent Dutch interest in finding out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u120	I fully understand the concern expressed by Mr Wilders in his question. However, he must also be aware of the exact nature of this. The Belgian authorities are conducting the investigation. If the Belgian authorities have reason to ask us questions, they will. Then it is not only desirable, but also not wise, to ask the Belgians these questions. They really need to be able to do their own research. If they ask us questions, we respond. I really think that I should emphasise that, even though I have a great deal of misunderstanding in the Chamber. We have really agreed with each other for good reasons on when far-reaching powers should and should not be used by Dutch investigation services. They will have to stick to that until we have changed those agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u121	Finally, the Minister has really made a mistake here. This is a real blunder. The Belgians are calling. They ask the Minister if they see an interest in the Belgian situation. I understand that didn't happen. But the minister has his own interest, a Dutch interest. He knew that man had landed in the Netherlands. We want to know in the Netherlands what he did in the Netherlands between that landing and the moment he blew himself up. Who's he been in touch with? Who did he collect weapons or other things with? That's a Dutch interest. I'm not asking the Minister to wait until the Belgians do, but to pick up the phone, call his Belgian colleague and say, "Dear friend, I understand that you have no interest, but I do have it, and now give me the order to do so, because it is a resident of you, it was a resident of you. Then the Minister would have gotten it that way. We'd know what was going on right now. This is a mistake. I'm gonna ask the Minister to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u122	There is concrete, active cooperation with the Belgian authorities in charge of criminal investigations. There's daily meetings. If that question is relevant to the Belgians or if that question is relevant to our security, then we will ask it. But the conclusion that Mr Wilders draws is really not something you can draw based on what we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u123	Once again, we have the core of the whole problem here. Mr Pechtold and Mr Wilders were, of course, quite right. This proves once again that it is passive, that there is no active role, that rules are hidden behind it and that, of course, there has been a failure here and that, of course, we should have gone after it a long time ago. Not only should our own service have done so, but also our own AIVD. They should have picked up the phone themselves. The Minister said it as well: the theory is different from the practice, I have learned it now, I am assertive now. If it had, it would have turned out to be. We would have gotten that information by now. Can the Minister not see for himself that this is the problem that the Chamber is already having three debates on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u124	No, I really do not see that on this point, although I fully understand Mr Roemer's concern and question. The Dutch police and the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office are simply, however we use it or turn it around, for good reasons, in the context of our rule of law bound by legal powers that cannot be used just like that. We have international agreements on that. I have put a lot about that, because there are points where the connection can really be improved. Also remember that, of course, the intelligence services, Mr Roemer mentioned the AIVD, have the task of mapping such networks and doing things within their own powers. However, I can, of course, make some announcement about this on the basis of my responsibility, and not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u125	Several speakers have already asked whether this Minister feels the urgency. We're not talking about a bike thief, no matter how bad it is for someone who lost their bike. We're talking about a terrorist who blew himself up and killed a lot of people. If we are still going to hide behind rules or protocols and not think about how we can get through them to ensure that we get the information we need, then I really have to conclude that the Minister is no further than at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u126	I think it would be a good idea to repeat what I have just said. Within their responsibilities, intelligence services have the task of mapping such networks. The services that I am responsible for, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, have simply to abide by the legal powers. The intelligence services also operate on the basis of legislation, but other well-known legislation. The police and the Public Prosecutor's Office cannot use these powers in any other way either. If they did, they would not do their job well, and Mr Roemer would not like that either. So I really think that, however unsatisfactory that may be, we should be aware that here too we must keep to the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u127	Is this the new assertive and proactive Minister of Justice, who says: we didn't get a request from the Belgians, so did I just sit in my chair? There is no one here who asks for the rule of law to be violated. There's no one who says, "Don't follow the rules." Everyone here asks: could you perhaps have contacted your Belgian colleague to ask him if we could check the corridors of this Belgian resident? We do not like the idea that someone who has committed a terrorist attack should enter the Dutch territory after 22 March and we have no idea what he has done here. Is it so strange that the opposition is now asking the Minister to respect the rule of law and to make a proactive call to his Belgian colleague? The question is very simple: why has this minister not done so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u128	This Minister did not do so because I showed in the letter I sent you that the Dutch authorities are working seamlessly and closely with the Belgian authorities in the follow-up to the terrible attacks in Brussels. If, in the contact that one has with one another, through Europol and directly through our own liaison, which is in the midst of the federal police, there had been cause to provoke or raise that question, that would have happened. There is no reason, as far as I know, that this should happen. I understand that questions are being asked here, but I would point out that we have made clear agreements in our own law on the powers of the Dutch investigation authorities. Mr Klaver says that we should not violate the rule of law, but we should not take over criminal proceedings from other countries. The primate really lies with the country that continues. That is what we want ourselves to do when we prosecute. Other countries may expect us to do so, but there must be cooperation and information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u129	I find this answer almost unacceptable. I ask a very simple question: why not ask your counterpart in Belgium, the Minister of Justice there? This isn't even about criminal prosecution. You want to know where this terrorist went? In the context of the safety of the Netherlands, do you want to know if this person has made contacts and if he has been in other places in the Netherlands? Surely this Minister could have just asked his Belgian colleague to do so? Then you will not come back, as he has been trying to do throughout the debate, with: the procedure was as follows, we have very good partnerships with the Belgians; it was all very successful and that is why I did not make that request? That is too little, not proactive and certainly not assertive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u130	I understand very well and I understand why Mr Klaver is asking that question. I also understand the underlying idea, but I cannot meet him at this point. It is up to the police and the Public Prosecutor to do their job as agreed within the legal powers. The intelligence services can deal with this in a different way. They have the task of mapping such networks and answering the questions that Mr Klaver has. I cannot, from my responsibility, make any communication about this, as far as you can tell me at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u131	Finally. I can tell everyone's repeating themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u132	But I think this is going to go on for a while, because this is a rather crucial point. I'm not asking for fucking information on what the intelligence services are doing right now. Everyone understands that no announcements can be made about this. It is still a question of why this minister did not just ask. That is the practice; it happens more often. If that is not the case, and it is therefore very strange what we are asking for now, I would also like to hear it, because then we must all be educated. I think it is perfectly normal for us to ask a country: we want to obtain information about a resident of yours because it has been in our country. That is a perfectly normal request; it happens more often. That did not happen in this case, after an attack was carried out in Brussels, less than 200 kilometres away with 30 dead and more than 300 injured. And the minister says: we have all kinds of procedures... You act like I'm asking what the intelligence services are doing, but that's not true. I would like to ask what your services have done and, above all, your role. Why didn't you just make a phone call to the Belgians? I find the answer very unsatisfactory so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u133	All I can say is this. There's a criminal investigation going on in Belgium. The Netherlands participates actively in this process through the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office. We are doing all the actions that the Belgians are asking of us in the ongoing criminal investigation. I can't tell you about these actions. If the Belgian authorities ask us to do something, we will do so immediately. That is our job and that is what we should be expected to do. We ensure that the Netherlands is safe. That is the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u134	There is a link between the horrible attacks in Paris and Brussels. Abdeslam, a fugitive boy, had ties to El Bakraoui, one of the perpetrators in Brussels. Now that we've got eyes on those networks, it turns out those guys in intelligence were in sight. But they weren't in the system and the alarm bells didn't go off when one of those guys came into the Netherlands. Then something has to change. The minister says the law's holding him back. So what is going to change so that we have the networks around Paris and Brussels in our sights and we can catch them when they get to customs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u135	That is the point I have already discussed with Mr Segers. The question is whether we are sufficiently proactive in our contacts with Belgian colleagues in this particular case to make sure that they are concerned about people... That was, moreover, only very limited on 14 July; we must be careful not to take too quickly the steps of this horrific attack, for which this man was responsible, to his arrival in the Netherlands months earlier, under other circumstances and with another science, including from the Dutch, but certainly from the Belgian authorities. That's what this proactivity is all about. We need to make sure that everything on the Belgian authorities' side has been done about the alerts we need to get someone out of the system early. I fully agree with Mr Segers on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u136	The question is whether we can trace these corridors ourselves. Can we indeed make a phone call and say: map it further? There are indeed networks. There are similarities. There is a European network. Surely, then, we must have a proactive attitude, where laws and regulations prevent that now? What is the Minister going to do to solve the barriers between what we want and what can be done? What's the Minister gonna do to get rid of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u137	What Mr Segers is saying, I understand very well, because he is doing so with the concern that there is. I can tell you that there's a lot of anxiety, and I can understand it. I give an indication of what the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Dutch police can do under the law as we have agreed with each other. This simply requires a suspicion of a criminal offence in the Netherlands or a suspicion of a criminal offence that has to be proven. You must have serious evidence of this and that is covered by the New York Convention. I indicated that in the letter. That suspicion should be there on 14 July, if we look now at 14 July. That was not the case, and it has been tested every step of the way. In the context of the agreements we have made, do we have sufficient reason to suspect this man for a crime in the Netherlands? If so, we can do anything we want. If not, we will not be able to do anything, because we have agreed to do so. This concerns the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office and the Dutch police. Up there are the intelligence services. I can say that the intelligence services are working actively in Europe to map out the entire network of Brussels, Paris and any criminal offences. But I cannot comment on the substance of the matter. Of course, it is not the case that our security depends solely on the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is true that everyone in the Netherlands, even if you are investigating and prosecuting, must comply with the legal agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u138	My final question on this point. It is not about 14 July, because it is about what we are doing and what we can do now. Can we ask in Belgium, Paris and other capitals to monitor that network? What steps can we take now and will the Minister take to get even better insight into these networks afterwards? We can't talk about what the intelligence services are doing here. We can talk about what the minister can do and what the police can do. Then what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u139	That's the point we talked about. It's about the exchange of information. This is about cooperation with the Belgians. We are working actively with them, but I cannot say anything about the specific aspects of this cooperation, at least not in public. I offered in the letter that I would inform the Chamber in confidence about the criminal law approach in the broad sense. How do we work together on these things? I can say something about this in general terms, because I cannot go into individual matters. I am happy to inform the Chamber on this, because I feel and taste that it is a concern, perhaps precisely because you cannot talk about it in public. It's a concern I might be able to take away by showing how it works in a general sense. I made that offer in the letter, precisely because I felt that these questions would eventually end up here. If the Chamber wishes to go into that, the Chamber is most welcome. I believe it is important to inform the Chamber in a general sense about the approach taken at that level, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. What are we going to do in the future? We're gonna do the same thing we're gonna do right now, only with proactivity. I have seen in this case that the agreements we have made, which are in principle final, leave the risk that you do not ask enough questions on the basis of the two. The Belgians are doing what they have to do within their powers and we are doing what we have to do within our powers. I think that there is the strength of the changes we have agreed on, the working instructions that have been given and the fact that I will see to it that it is done. That point is a matter of concern from this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u140	It is, of course, crazy to say that a suicide bomber is not checked a thousand times and that not every step he takes, even at the moment, is clear. Let us not forget that this suicide bomber, El Bakraoui, also killed three other countrymen. Three countrymen were murdered by this terrorist and we are sitting here having a ridiculous discussion about procedures! Surely there is no human being in the Netherlands who believes that as a state attorney or as a police officer or as a minister of security and justice you are not allowed to check all this? This can't be explained. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. We're talking about three countrymen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u141	I understand very well why Mr Bontes has put it this way. That affects me, I must say, because I do not think that the suggestion underneath is fair. The Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office, the Dutch police and the Dutch intelligence services are working day and night to prevent the Dutch from becoming victims of terrorist attacks. The suggestion made by Mr Bontes, and the question he raises, do not seem to me to be adequate in terms of the commitment of the people who are on the path here and also of the policy we are pursuing here and on which we are, fortunately, having regular exchanges of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u142	The Minister doesn't call me fair. It's not fair to the next of kin. I'm standing here with substitute shame for the next of kin. Mr President, I am done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u143	In order to know whether the terrorist who landed at Schiphol Airport could have committed criminal offences, we must at least know what period he stayed in the Netherlands after his landing at Schiphol Airport. Is it known to the Ministry, by checking with colleagues in Belgium, whether they checked from when he entered Belgium? I assume that his phone records and other data have been checked by the Belgians. At that time it must be known to the Netherlands that he has been here for a period. That could have been an hour, from Schiphol to the Belgian border, but it could have been longer. I think we in the Netherlands need to know how long he probably stayed in the Netherlands after his landing at Schiphol. Surely the Minister could have asked his Belgian colleague that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr Krol is asking a question that I cannot, of course, answer, because it is an ongoing investigation by the Belgian authorities, with which we work very seamlessly and closely. In general, I can say that there has been no reason from Belgium to assume that this gentleman, Ibrahim, and his brother Khalid, unlike on 14 July, were in the Netherlands. As far as Khalid is concerned, we checked that, also at the request of the Belgian authorities, when they made the request. I've informed the Chamber about that. I cannot, of course, go into the matter further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u145	The Minister just said that it is not legally possible for the Dutch side to proactively introduce information into that Belgian process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u146	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u147	We just talked about liaisons and cooperation. Then, at least, it is friendly to say, "Oh, this person came to us on 14 July, let's see if the accomplices might have been present at Schiphol"? Or is he supposed to be looking for Searched or Reported Crime Anonymous?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u148	No, Mr. Chairman. As I have already said, the exchange of information between the Belgian and Dutch police is, of course, continuous. We're working together in this investigation. In a number of areas, you can provide the information you have. This is not allowed in a number of areas. This requires a request for legal aid. If that is necessary, this request for legal aid will, of course, be made, and that information will also be provided. That's the usual way we work together. This cooperation is active and takes place every day. Such requests have been made and are being followed up, as has been done by the French authorities. I can talk about that, because that is a visible succession. The French authorities ask us whether we want to arrest someone in the Netherlands. We will do so immediately, in a sensible way, I say. We also encounter two other people, who we also take in a careful way. That is the way the cooperation is going: active, daily, daily and very close to both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u149	On the understanding that it didn't happen here, but it could be, and there is a reverse Dutch interest in it. Suppose that man was picked up at Schiphol Airport by someone else, then we also have a Dutch interest to know. We can't ask that. I keep saying: an anonymous tip to the Belgian police can, and a Dutch police officer who says, "Oh, call me, then I can search here" shouldn't be allowed? Then I agree with Mr Segers, who also says that we need to change the rules. Because this is the first thing you should be able to do. If anyone in the course of an investigation like this shows up as having been in the Netherlands and we do not know anything at all, then we must be able to detect it. The rules for this must be good. I ask the Minister to set this in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u150	I would be happy to examine with the Chamber, in the light of the analysis we have now made, whether adapting the Dutch jurisdiction rules would have consequences and, if so, which ones. I can do that, and I'd be happy to. I need to find out how we're gonna do that, because it's got to be quick. We will have to look at how we put that in the fork, but I am certainly prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u151	I think that the latter is an important commitment. It also seems to me very good to know exactly where the limits are. Are the privacy rules not also interpreted too formally? Is there really room for exchange of information without violating the existing rules? Can it not also be that these rules are sometimes interpreted too carefully in practice? For example, we sometimes hear on work visits that people think there can be very little about privacy protection, while, if you look precisely, there are more opportunities for a good exchange of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u152	I understand very well that Mr Van der Staaij is saying that, because there is, of course, that caution. But why is there one? Because other countries have the same rules; if information is obtained illegally, you cannot use it in criminal proceedings. If we are going to do things more actively and perhaps discover things and bring out information, or if, for example, the Belgians would do that for us, then the disaster is beyond us that, if that information is not legally obtained, we will not be convicted of the person concerned. Those rules are there for a reason. They're really there to make sure that you bring out information in a legitimate way, so that it actually leads to a conviction. That is what we all want, because as far as I'm concerned, these kind of guys have to be in jail, if that's possible. Then I come to the question raised by the SP Group and Mr Van der Staaij about the district agents. The local approach we have is wider than just the neighborhood agents. The question was whether we have enough of that. This question has already been raised in the previous debate and I have indicated that I am responsible for the system. That means there's got to be one district cop out of 5,000 residents. However, to Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Roemer, I have already said that I am also making a move in connection with Mr Van der Staaij's motion. I see together with the mayors responsible whether 1 in 5,000 is actually being carried out within the responsibility of the mayors themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u153	The Minister is moving on now, but I'm still working on the questions. I put it simply, so if the Minister had kept it in first place, or his officials, then he could have just seen it. With regard to reconstruction, I am still concerned with the question of what has happened to the Turks. After all, the Minister said about the relationship with the Turks, and I quote him: 'I am not familiar with any agreements'. We have had a UN resolution, we have had a foreign fighters group, we have had the official working group, we have had the conference in January, in short, a whole series of expectations have been raised, so that we can assume that at the present time we are discussing with the Turks at the highest level on a daily basis those 740 people who come in and out of Europe mainly through that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr Pechtold referred to the questions that had already been raised in the first term about the agreements between Turkey and the Netherlands. I have indicated that there are no appointments, but that we do have a method of working. It was always followed in 2014, 2015, 2016, except in the case of El Bakraoui. In response to a number of parliamentary questions, I have also indicated that Turkey always applies directly to those people, but I would like us to record this in writing with Turkey. I've already made agreements on that. This must also be done in good time and provide the right context information. We have an interest in it being done this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u155	So there are no written agreements at the moment, the Minister says, but there is a kind of working method and it has not been followed in one case, just like the case of El Bakraoui. Okay, but now for the task force. It was announced very early by Minister Timmermans in a more general sense, and again by this Minister himself in November. Why didn't the working party ever get together? Why did the Minister say, when it became clear, that after our presidency, so after 1 July, we are going to pick it up? I think that should be picked up today! Yesterday, because then the questions were answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u156	I have also discussed this in detail with Mr Buma, who has asked the same question. I reported there were two tracks at the time. On the one hand, there is a trail with the Minister of the Interior, who deals with terrorism. In doing so, we discuss how the Turks react and how the Turkish and Dutch authorities work together to ensure that the chances of errors such as those made at El Bakraoui are minimized and prevent them from occurring, including by timely reporting with context information. In addition, I made arrangements with the Minister of Justice. In November, I agreed with him that we would make final written agreements after the summer; this has now been confirmed by his successor. These written agreements are being prepared and cover a much wider field. They are not just about combating terrorism, but also about drug crime, about exchanging experts and how we deal with requests for legal aid. There is also a challenge, including with regard to the ECHR, as I indicated in the letter. So it's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u157	The European Convention on Human Rights is very abstract, but we are talking about simple protocols: how do you send an e-mail, then call, put your "urgent" in your e-mail or in the subject, etc. Those are the simplest daily appointments. The minister says he wants to take an extra step, that he wants to learn lessons, that he sees urgency and such, but apart from the ECHR, is this something concrete? Do you expect Dutch officials, together with Turkish officials, to be fully involved in arranging and putting this on paper for tomorrow, so to speak? As far as I am concerned, this should have been done since November. Why does the Minister wait until after the summer? Why do we allow such a huge gap to arise in the rather simple things that can now be arranged?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u158	I understand the confusion in a way, but now try to explain why it is not there. We have two trajectories. One route, with the Minister of Justice, is not about the fight against terrorism or the police. It's about classic judicial cooperation. Improvements are possible there, but they are complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u159	They got that right there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u160	We are going to discuss that question with each other. Anyway, that route is a different route from the one I mentioned in the letter to the Chamber, which I have already spoken to my colleague in the Interior twice this year. By the way, on 4 and 5 April there was a large police delegation in Turkey who also took up this point, but that agreement was already in place. I am not going to show off a feather that is not mine; that appointment was already in place. But Mr Pechtold will understand that the first item on the agenda was police cooperation. When Mr Pechtold asks me if I have done everything I can to get those appointments as well as possible, I always say no. I think I should have done more about that, as I said at the beginning, but not nothing happened. That working group has a very different effect. He really sees legal aid, cooperation, drug crime and, above all, trafficking in human beings. There are some hooks and eyes that need to be looked at very carefully. I know the D66 Group, which will be the first to call on me to be cautious on this point, certainly in international law. There are also signs that not everything in Turkey always goes the way we are used to here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u161	The distinction is now clearer to me. We will indeed be very critical of the agreements we make with the Turks in the area of human trafficking in broad and similar areas. Today, however, we are talking about the urgent issue of the exchange of back-traveling jihadists. Turkey has a kind of hub function for them to come to Europe from Syria, as it turns out time and time again. On both matters, I would like a follow-up letter from the Minister. If at one point it can be much faster, especially if people have been there on April 4 and 5, that's good. It's not just about the Chamber. This also reassures people. They will know that this has been learned and that it has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u162	Of course. That's what the letter says. I can confirm this with complete enthusiasm. I'll make sure those appointments are in writing as soon as possible. Of course, I will inform the House of that too. Mr Pechtold also asked a question about the exchange of PNR data. I have now taken action by proposing to my fellow ministers this week not to give a physical agreement on 21 April, but this week in writing to the whole data protection package. These include the Data Protection Directive, the Data Protection Regulation and the PNR Directive. All this in order to enable the European Parliament to decide on this as soon as possible. Part of this is the exchange of PNR data between Member States. My experience was that there were quite a few objections to this in this Parliament too. I understand that, among others, Mr Pechtold says that this should be done. I'm happy about that. When a general statement addressing this subject was drawn up, the French and Germans proposed to say that we were going to do so. I said then that I could not make that commitment because I had not discussed it with the Chamber. I can see broad support for this idea from this debate and the previous debate. I will therefore not have to make that parliamentary reservation. I welcome that, because that means that the Netherlands can also agree to the advance of the PNR directive. Mr Buma, Mr Roemer and Mr Pechtold asked questions about the DSI. I wrote an extensive letter about it, because it was suggested that there would be great unrest. One thing needs to be said here, and I would like to repeat it. I've been to the people of the DSI myself. I have rarely seen such incredibly well trained and motivated people that day in, day out to keep the Netherlands safe where necessary. They've been visible in public a few times. I cannot say where, but you could think of the Thalys in Rotterdam, for example. The professionalism of these people has been noticed by everyone; there were cameras. As stated in the letter, the DSI must, of course, have the right resources and the right people. There's a bottleneck there, because we've scaled up preparedness while we didn't have all the people before. As I indicated in the letter, the Working Time Act is currently being violated in a number of areas. This means we're asking a lot of these people. From the discussions I had with the people about this, I also get that message from the Chief Constable on his visit....................................................................................................................................................... The training places for 2015 and 2016 are fully booked, so hopefully we can offer lighting. I would add that the workload will remain high, as I wrote in the letter. We will continue to ask a great deal of these specialized people, from whom you don't have much to do with the nature of their work, as long as the threat is at the present level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u163	They are fine words, but the practice is still more uncomfortable. The Minister can say that the training places are fully booked, but that does not solve the problem. This simply fills the existing capacity. There were agreements that capacity would be increased. Those resources never arrived. There are no extra teachers attracted. No extra places have been created. The Minister is now saying that these people are working terribly hard, and I fully agree that we should be proud of them. That is what I am also saying that they are on the front line and that they are loyal. That's all true, but there's a reason they're taking on a lawyer. The problems are mega-sized and are not today's or yesterday's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u164	The solution is not today or tomorrow either. Because these people are active in the highest spectrum of violence, are trained with resources that ordinary police officers do not have at their disposal and are trained to be deployed under conditions in which other police officers cannot operate, you depend on that training for the extra people. The extra people are in training. We did exactly what we agreed. There's gonna be extra people, and they're gonna join us. We've purchased extra material because we see that's necessary. We have discussed with the SP Group many times in which areas we are making all these improvements. Mrs Kooiman in particular has been very active in this and rightly so. I'm also happy with that support. I'm getting to the point of the lawyer. We must be careful that this does not create the wrong picture. There was a conflict of labour law in the old regional corps. It's about the period before 2010. That conflict was about the way in which certain working hours or holidays were handled. A lawyer took action on that. You have read in the letter that the objection phase is now over. The Chief Constable will complete it as soon as possible. I agree with Mr Roemer that this conflict should simply be abandoned, but this is not reflected in the workload that is currently being experienced. In addition, I have promised that we will do a work experience study to see exactly whether there is still unsatisfaction and, if so, where it is and how we can solve it. I agree with Mr Roemer that we should not be displeased with these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u165	One of the problems is that money is always magical. There are commitments here: there is a problem, so we need to invest extra there. The Chamber and all the services involved think that it will be okay, so that millions more will be spent, for example to increase the number of training places. If you then continue to question critically, examine the situation and talk to people, you come to the conclusion that those resources have never arrived and that only the maximum current capacity is used. That's just the existing capacity. That's zero, nothing, nada extra. So the Room is being sent here with a rug in the reeds. We're getting promises that millions more are going to go, and they're not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u166	That question was asked before. I explained it clearly in the letter. The extra funds made available for the DSI are only devoted to one thing and that is to the DSI. That money is there, that money is being spent, that money has been partly spent and will be spent. Those people are in training to ensure that we have as many well-trained DSIs as possible as soon as possible. That is the situation, and I am pleased about that. Could it have been faster as far as I'm concerned? Oh, yeah. Can we go faster? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u167	If you want to train people, you do it with your own education. If you're going to look there and check it out, you can expect it to be expanded there. I strongly advise the Minister to ask again, because he may soon come to the conclusion that he has again failed to inform the Chamber properly, because he is not well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u168	That's a risk a minister runs a lot of times. One thing is certain: the DSI really is the elite corps of the Dutch national police. As stated in the letter, we ensure that he has the people and the material needed. I would add, because we have to be so realistic, that means that even if the training has been 2015-2016 and the threat continues as it is now, the workload of these people will still be high. I will do everything I can to make it as small as possible in the future, but we must realise that this is a very special battle for police officers. I'm saying cops, by the way, but that's not exactly right. These are people from the Royal Marechaussee, the Corps of Command, the Marine Corps and the National Police. It is a very good example of multidisciplinary cooperation between a number of highly specialised services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u169	However, this is also an example where the word "watch forward" did not apply. Because we've known for a long time that the threat is great. Today's capacity problems cannot come as a surprise. We know that the demand for capacity continues. We can write that on a note. The minister now pretends that the DSI isn't bigger because there are no people left in the Netherlands, as if they were just not there. The number is not large, but there are enough to get an enlargement. Then I ask the Minister to actually expand the DSI. But don't forget the Marechaussee. The Minister hasn't talked about that yet, but it's gonna go wrong next summer at Schiphol. The police are 300 million euros short. When it comes to capacity in times of crisis, this cabinet and this minister must deliver much more. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u170	That is also the policy. That's what the letter says. DSI needs to be expanded, because we believe that this is necessary. That will also be necessary in the future, and we will simply work on it. We realize that. I fully agree with Mr Buma that, if we look ahead, we should increase the DSI. A few years ago my predecessor also looked ahead. At that time, there were also agreements on increasing the DSI. The same goes for me now. I see that there will continue to be major challenges in the future. We will, of course, deal with this adequately. This doesn't allow us to afford any risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u171	That's what the minister says about the DSI. I was also talking about the Marechaussee, part of which fills the DSI. The problem of capacity at the Marechaussee is simply enormous. He can't keep interning the rest of the defense. It's gonna have to come from outside. The same goes for the police. That's where it's gonna have to come from. The whole debate is about urgency and how important it is to look forward. It is no different; these services need to be larger. My question to the Minister is: 'I can also ask him to the Prime Minister because the question is also about Defence, but I now ask him to the Minister how he will ensure that these clubs are in order in the shortest possible time to protect us from terrorism. In other words, they must be considerably larger than they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u172	The Prime Minister will discuss the Royal Marechaussee on this point, as he did in the first term. The cooperation between the Royal Marechaussee and the national police is, of course, going very well. There is a continuous review of how these two organisations support each other as much as possible. That will also be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u173	This is not the answer to my question about the scope of these services. I say again that the police are short of 300 million. The new chief of police has said that if he doesn't get that money, there will be fewer cops. The Minister can't take care of that, can he? So he's gonna make sure this money comes in, so the police at least stay at their current strength?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u174	I have already said on this subject at first reading that this subject is being discussed with the Minister of Finance. The investigation that shows that money would be needed for the national police, the Minister of Finance and I have announced together. That investigation was the result of the re-evaluation of the national police. We will discuss this with the Minister of Finance in the coming weeks. I have one more question to answer from Mr Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u175	The latter is a new point. The Minister very quickly gets over the fact that in the Chamber there is a broad desire not only to close gaps in the field of justice in this case, the Minister therefore has the opposition with him, but also to clarify exactly what the deficits are. We hear and read all about it. What is the deficit for 2017 if nothing happened to the budget for his ministry? Does the Minister have an insight into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u176	As far as the national police are concerned, I refer to the documents I have sent to the Chamber on this matter. We had PwC do an investigation. I think Mr Roemer knows that. A validation was carried out by Mr De Jong. I sent those pieces to the Chamber. That is also what Mr Buma calls the figures. That's the information we sent to the Chamber. These documents shall be taken into account in carrying out the motions adopted by the Chamber. That's what we announced. Motions have been adopted in both the Lower House and the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u177	Certainly, but I asked the minister not only about the shortage of the police, but about the shortage throughout the chain and at the ministry as a whole. In previous debates, for example last year at the General Reviews, we talked not only about the police, but also about the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Dutch Forensic Institute and so on. Does the Minister have any idea of the shortage that might arise over his entire department if we didn't act now? How big are these deficits going to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u178	As I have already said, this is the subject of discussion with the Minister of Finance. That goes for the whole width of my department, of course. I cannot make any substantive statements about this now, because I am engaged in those talks. The result will be able to test the Chamber against the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u179	This is not the beginning of an answer. That the Minister is in talks with the Minister of Finance, I assume. I assume that's what all the ministers are. I am not asking who the minister is talking to, I am asking what amount we are talking about. In the Telegraaf there was recently an amount of nearly a billion. Is that taken from the sky?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u180	I'm not gonna go into that. I think we should do things on a temporary basis. We have the usual agreement in the Chamber to talk about this in connection with the spring note and the budget. That's what we're gonna do now. I know the motions and I take full account of them, as I promised the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u181	This can't be happening. There's a lot going around. Also in parts of this minister's service, complete powerpoint presentations are given to announce measures and possible measures, with top of the sheet: expected deficits in 2017 900 million and in 2018 950 million. So at a high level of administration, all these things are shared, but at a normal question from the Chamber we are talking about, especially at these times, security and justice are incredibly important to the whole Chamber, because we do not get the information that the Telegraaf does have, that all services do have and that all employees do have. The Chamber doesn't have it, and it can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u182	The Chamber will, of course, receive all the information it needs. That's what we agreed on, and we're implementing it. The Court receives this information in the spring note and in the millions note and budget respectively. I'll take care of that, too. I know the motions and I know the concerns of the Chamber. In the discussions I have with the Minister of Finance, I will also bring that concern to his attention, as Mr Roemer can expect from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u183	I'd like to know how far you're going with answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u184	I have two more questions from Mr Samsom and then I'm done. Mr Samsom asked: what if the information had been given in good time on 14 July, what could you have done? Then, of course, there would have been contact between the Dutch and the Belgian liaison, then the systems would have been consulted a day earlier and Ibrahim El Bakraouir might even have been heard at Schiphol. But then the situation wouldn't have changed, because he still wouldn't have been detected in the systems. However, you would have had the opportunity, as part of our policy when people return, to enter into the conversation with him to find out if you should be worried. You can then share that concern with the Belgians. If the Belgians say: hold him, because we are still writing a European arrest warrant, then you can continue to act on it. That would have been the situation. Finally, Mr Samsom asked about deradicalisation and whether it was non-binding. Part of it is. The deradicalisation programmes have been set up to ensure that we can deradicalise people who are radicalising as quickly as possible. This means that these deradicalisation programmes are in principle voluntary. At the same time, this applies in the context of conditional release, i.e. if there has already been a conviction, which can be imposed as a condition. It may also be part of a treatment in the BOPZ. The question is also whether a deradicalisation process would be successful if you imposed it on someone who does not want it at all. However, I have indicated that, if this is decided, participation will not be voluntary, but that concrete agreements will be made which the person concerned will have to keep in order to ensure that the process is as successful as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u185	I suggest that the Minister should first answer all the questions and then there will be an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u186	Before further questions are asked, I would like to look back at this debate and the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u187	I'd rather we discuss the smaller things that are still open. Then I think it is very good that I also very much appreciate the Minister's reflection. However, I would like to dot the i first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u188	I'll see if all the questions have been answered first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u189	On 14 and 15 July, the Netherlands and Belgium will find out at some point that a terrorist, a suspect, but a serious criminal, has arrived in the Netherlands. So until today we do not know how long he has stayed in the Netherlands and what he has done in the meantime. Can the Minister explain to me again why in the same summer, so after this incident, the liaison officer was cut off which we have with the Belgians and which is about the contacts between police and justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u190	As far as I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u191	Then you may intervene, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u192	There's no mention of a liaison officer. I have also explained this in the answer to the many questions that have been asked. We have a police liaison responsible for the operational cooperation between the Dutch and Belgian police. That police liaison was there, is there and stays there. He works with the Belgian federal police. That is also why when the attacks took place in Brussels, we, unlike in Paris, did not have to send additional people immediately. 'Cause they were already there. That was not the case in Paris. We have sent five people to Paris to support the Paris police and at the same time to find out what this meant for the Netherlands. I think it is important to repeat that in all these cases the question is always asked: does this mean something for the Netherlands, is there a link with the Netherlands, should we do something in the Netherlands? What has ended is the Embassy Council in Brussels. That is someone who, on behalf of the Ministry of Security and Justice, guides on the very broad spectrum of subjects. That was no longer necessary because we have very close cooperation with the Belgians in all these areas. That has nothing to do with terrorism policy or operational matters, that is someone who works policyally from the embassy with the Belgian government. There was no need for that, because this cooperation is excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u193	That's what I've heard before, that the collaboration is smooth. So we have an embassy council, which is another word for a liaison officer, but I do not care about the contacts that are at stake in the JHA Council. It's about the police and the justice system. For the Ministry of Security and Justice, that is the one we have with the Belgian government. It was cut off in the summer of 2015 because everything is "smoothed," the minister says. I feel like things haven't gone well. Why was it taken away? Why is that function filled out like the weed again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u194	Mr Pechtold now connects two greats. We have excellent police cooperation, because we have our own people in the Belgian federal police. That is operational cooperation. We have cooperation in the area of the Public Prosecutor's Office with the Belgians. In the letter I also explained that we are working together with the Belgian and German authorities in the framework of the EPIC. In the operational field, there are incredibly many forms of cooperation between the Dutch authorities and the Belgian authorities and, in part, with the German authorities. The embassy council is not a liaison officer. We really need to separate that from each other. This is someone who collects information from the Belgian authorities on behalf of the Ministry of Security and Justice and provides information to the Belgian authorities where necessary. That was no longer necessary and is not necessary, because cooperation with the Belgians is seamless. Then it's about policy cooperation from the department. This cooperation is going well. There's no need for an embassy council. For the moment, I have no reason to fill in that position. I would also like to point out that the permanent representation of the Netherlands has been extended within the framework of the European Presidency, because we needed and need such people because of the Presidency in the field of JHA cooperation. So there's extra there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u195	I asked a question about the other Syrians next to El Bakraoui in his case, no action has been taken on those who have been sent back from Turkey. The Minister said that action has been taken in all other cases. What makes the difference explainable? Why has no action been taken in this one case and in all others?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u196	In a way, action was taken on 15 July on El Bakraoui. The systems have been consulted. That was the day after the Belgians had reported us: the man has returned through you; take a look at that. By the way, we do not know if it is anyone who has ever been to Syria. All we know is that he was apprehended near the Turkish-Syrian border. For all other cases, they have been properly reported directly, so that direct action has also been taken. Those reports have not always been timely. That is one of the specific points on which I have spoken in depth with my colleague in the past and certainly last Monday. I said that this really needs to happen because we just need time to take adequate measures. One of the most important measures is that we try to speak to all those people at Schiphol Airport and to hold them if necessary. As the Chamber has been able to read in the letter, so has it. There are 15 criminal investigations against the people who arrived in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u197	Do we have all these 38 back-travelers in our sights? What action has been taken exactly? Do our services still have those people in their sights?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u198	Of course, it's a bit difficult to discuss an individual case in the Chamber, but it's as I've shown it in the letter. I think that should be reassuring. In 15 of the cases there is a criminal investigation. In a number of cases administrative action has been taken and such a person is in the case consultation. In a single case, the information has been passed on to the intelligence services. In 10 out of 38 cases, there was no reason to suspect that the person was somehow connected to a terrorist activity. But all this has been established in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u199	The Minister said that action was sometimes only taken afterwards. Is immediate action always taken immediately in all cases where a person is sent back by Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u200	Oh, yeah. That is the starting point. That is what I need the Turkish authorities to do, because they must ensure that this notification is made in advance. That was the approach of the conversation I had last week, but it was also, of course, the approach of the discussions I had with colleagues from Turkey earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u201	I have also asked questions about the fact that European citizens can choose the city they travel to when they are expelled from another country. I said that I regard the free movement of persons as an important asset, but I find it rather strange that people, if they are deported, for example, for the purpose of terrorism, can choose their own city, all the more so because we find that the systems in Europe are not yet very compatible. So it does matter where such a European citizen lands. Can the Minister say again how he is going to make an effort to ensure that these people are simply returned to the country in which they were resident? If it turns out that nothing was going on, they can just travel all over Europe. We have free movement of persons for everyone. Can the Minister go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u202	I'd be happy to. Mr Klaver is absolutely right about that. The current rule is that an EU national can be deported to any EU country. For the very reason Mr Klaver has put forward, I find that undesirable. I am therefore trying to agree with the Turks that a Dutch resident is only expelled through the Netherlands. That is my preference, as well as my preference for a resident of another country not to be expelled through the Netherlands, because then again we are dependent on whether we are getting enough information from other countries. My starting point is to at least make that appointment for ourselves with Turkey. However, in the discussion with Mr Ala, I indicated that I do not exclude that I want to do so on behalf of Europe, because I believe that other countries have the same need as we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u203	I welcome this attitude. It is a little more generous than in the previous debate, but I am particularly concerned about the second point: that residents from another European country cannot be expelled to the Netherlands. In this way, we cannot in any way control what is happening there. When does the Minister intend to inform us about this? As far as I'm concerned, this has to be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u204	There's a little bit of a tempo behind that. I hope to be able to report the results as soon as possible. The police, who have been there over the past few days, should have taken a few big steps in that regard. I really want to be able to reassure the Chamber within three weeks by saying that we have those agreements. I would like to add that we will, of course, change the existing European regulation. I do depend on the willingness of the Turkish authorities to cooperate in this, but I think it is important for everyone that we get those rules done, as Mr Klaver has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u205	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u206	To get it right: the conversations that are going on are about the fact that Dutch residents are always sent back to the Netherlands. My point is that I do not want other European nationals to be expelled to the Netherlands and therefore cannot travel through Amsterdam. That was, of course, the case of El Bakraoui. That too is being discussed at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u207	This was also explicitly discussed in last Monday's telephone conversation; not only the timeliness and context information, but also this point. For God's sake, send people from other countries to those countries. We will have to make bilateral agreements on this, but that is also a point I would like to discuss with my European colleagues on 21 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u208	I thank the Minister for this generous commitment. Now that we've come to this point, I'm going to see if we can get a little further. I call on the Minister in Europe to call for the adaptation of the Schengen agreements so that all European countries, if we agree with each other, also have the right to have someone from another Schengen Member State who is sent to the Netherlands, for example, from a country with which you do not have an appointment, whether it is Turkey or another country, refuse entry. This is about traffic to Schengen; not about traffic within Schengen. Can we not try to take that step within Europe as well? I fully understand that you are dependent on other Member States. If one of them says no, it stops, but at least we have to try this. I'd like to get a commitment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u209	I cannot, of course, determine the scope and, as Mr Pechtold said, I cannot undertake results, but I am very willing, as I have just said, to put this issue on the agenda at the next JHA meeting on 21 April, the morning part of which will be devoted to European security. I am looking at this debate, at the previous debate and at my information to the Chamber, but also at the criticism expressed in this debate. I would remind you of the question put by Mr Pechtold and Mr Klaver: are there any points I would have liked to have done better? I have already indicated this on a number of subjects. In general, I think that I too could have done better at the point of proactivity, but also at the point of being on top of it and better monitoring of the agreements, which we claim to have made. In that respect, I myself am willing to learn from this case. On that point, I will change my approach visibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u210	Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked about the Intelligence and Security Services Act. I also said something about this in the previous debate. That law will be discussed in the Under-Council on 12 April, which is a bit of an internal cabinet process, but I think it is a good thing to report this here and on 15 April in the Council of Ministers. I also explained last time what caused the delay. This also has to do with the political assessment of how we arrive at majorities, both in this Chamber and in what is called 'the other side', because these majorities are not guaranteed in advance. That really took some time. I have had an interrupting debate with Mr Buma on this subject. In my view, we agreed that this bill is so important that we should be sure, at least, that we should have a certainty-bound probability when dealing with it that the bill can count on fruitful support in both Chambers. We think we're ready. As a result, the legislative proposal has been delayed with a view to political acceptance, but it will be sent to the Chamber on 15 April. With regard to the capacity of the Royal Marechaussee, in particular at Schiphol Airport, Mr Pechtold outlined the worrying picture that shortages could lead to hours of delay next summer. Of course, I and the Cabinet recognise the importance of rapid flow. We too want to avoid these long queues. For this reason, Secretary of State Dijkhoff, together with a commander of the Royal Marechaussee, is talking to Schiphol to ensure that solutions are available both for the short and longer term. The Chamber will, of course, be briefed on this. There is, of course, no concession to the quality of border surveillance, passport control or airport security. So we are working very hard to solve this potential problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u211	I'm afraid we're gonna hit the capacity of the Royal Marechaussee as a whole, because if you take people away somewhere else, there's gonna be a shortage elsewhere. So the question I asked the Minister of Security and Justice earlier, I also ask the Prime Minister: is he prepared to make additional funds available outside of Defence budgets to enable the Marechaussee to carry out this task in the context of terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u212	Last year, with broad support in the Chamber, we added about 130 million to the resources for combating terrorism. This construction is now taking place with many services, including the Royal Marechaussee; so there are also groups. That partly explains the pressure on the occupation. In addition, there has also been additional pressure on the KMar's capacity due to the terrible developments in recent months. So we have to keep looking at the total capacity, but even if you add extra money right now, that would not be a solution for the coming summer. More generally, I can say that we have two compasses with regard to the expenditure on the security domain. The first compass is the Van der Staaij motion, which, with broad support in the Chamber, has been asked for additional expenditure for Defence, but within available financial frameworks; all MPs know that motion. The second compass on which we sail is the agreement made by the Minister of Security and Justice in this Chamber and also on the other side when dealing with the budget for Security and Justice, but the question of whether additional resources will be available does not touch the capacity problem of next summer. They wouldn't be a solution. We really need to look for practical solutions to this. That's what the conversations are about now. I believe that the questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u213	It is true that Mr Buma, Mr Pechtold and Mr Segers have questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u214	Then I still have the question to the Prime Minister, as President of the Council of Ministers. How does he assess the approach of the Minister of Security and Justice's terrorism policy in recent years, also in view of his own statements on the lack of focus and the like?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u215	I believe that the Minister for Security and Justice is simply doing his job in general. It's one of the toughest posts in the cabinet. We have been faced with a terrible situation, even after the attacks in Brussels. Then you dive into the files and then you defend our services. Within the existing frameworks, our services have done what they have to do. However, you will discover that this is exactly what the previous debate was about, where improvements can be made, such as in cooperation with Turkey or in internal cooperation. In the previous debate with me, we also discussed the cooperation of the security services in Europe. I believe that the Minister for Security and Justice has reflected this in a good way. The Chamber insisted on that, too. He's taking that seriously, and that appeals to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u216	Does the Prime Minister also take these words to heart: the priority to be given to them, which has been lacking in recent years, as the Minister for Security and Justice has so rightly said?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u217	I don't mean that he put it that way, but I really agree with what the Minister of Security and Justice said here. As the boss of the stuff, I sometimes say rudely, or as chairman of the club, it always hits me. Everything that goes well is not because of me. This is always due to ministers, State Secretary and the excellent officials who do their job well. But if there are improvements to be made, it is always my responsibility in the first place. That's how it's supposed to be when you're president of a club.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u218	That's the prime minister's credit. We're talking jihadism here. This appears to be something for Western Europe, on which we should, above all, have good agreements with Turkey. But the atmosphere between the Netherlands and Turkey should also be good. Last week, Mr Erdogan surprised us by saying to CNN that in order to understand someone who has jihadist intentions, you must first understand what this means. The Netherlands and Belgium do not understand what jihadism stands for. I wonder what's in Erdogan's mind to make such a statement after such an attack. What has actually happened from the Prime Minister's responsibility to ask for clarification from Turkey? Has there been any contact between the Prime Minister and Erdogan? This does not contribute to the feeling that friendly states are trying to tackle this terrible problem together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u219	There has, of course, been official consultation. I also believe that there has been contact from Foreign Affairs and from Security and Justice on Wednesday after the statement that this gentleman had travelled through Schiphol Airport had been made, but I would have to take a look at the exact facts. So there has been contact at all levels, also later in the preparation for the pieces that are before us today. I myself intended to reflect further on this with the Turkish President of the State on our joint visit to the Washington Atomic Summit last Friday, but he left with a stomachache which prevented that conversation from taking place. He was gone all of a sudden, but he had a medical reason, I understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u220	It is a special combination of Mr Erdogan and Mr Wilders, who actually say to the Prime Minister and to all of us that we do not know what jihadism is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u221	Whose is that worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u222	It's only where two of us can agree. But, in all seriousness, my question to the Prime Minister is: he also called himself the chief or the chairman of the committee, whether he does not feel that the Netherlands is not naïve at the moment, but realistic, and that we are doing everything in our power to suppress and prevent. I would like to hear from him once again that we are not going to get any fuss about the fact that it is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u223	As far as the latter is concerned, I hear what Mr Pechtold is saying, but I am not going to have a cabinet claim debate here. Mr Pechtold himself was in the cabinet; that is the best guarantee that it will not succeed. I can answer him on the other points. I am working every day on our security, the fight against terror and the fight against jihadism. The Minister of Security and Justice is working on this 24 hours a day and I am at least working every day. Actually, we're in touch about this every day. We have very intensive consultations, meetings and so on. Each time you look at what is concrete, where the threat is, what the services tell us, what is confidential and what is non-confidential and whether our people are able to respond well to it. In the previous debate, I said that, in my opinion, our services are well-mannered and well-armed, with the added funds, the more than 128 million after the discussions in January and February last year, and that they have the good equipment, not only now but also in the coming period, must be continued as the same level. But we remain extremely focused on that. If necessary, the fight against terrorism will, of course, always go before everything and we will do everything we can to take additional measures. So I do not believe that I can guarantee that there can be no attack here, but that Chamber and Cabinet, but also those thousands of people in our services such as the police and the armed forces, are working incredibly well on this. I know that there is broad support for this in Parliament. I would like to say the following about the case before us. That's what we've been digging into since the week. One of the things that you can learn from this debate is: had we only had a little more time to exactly... Mr Pechtold said it of the week I also believe in an interview and I also saw journalists commenting. But I see the documents that are now before me and I have to say that all 39 cases have been followed up and actions taken. Indeed, as the Minister for Security and Justice also said, in some areas, for example, contacts can be further improved and we can be even more on top of them. In all these cases, however, our people are on top of it and doing the things they have to do. The succession that had to be given has always been given. That also gives confidence. I cannot therefore tell the Netherlands through Mr Pechtold that there will be no attack here. I can say that, even in this case, as paradoxical as that may sound, our people are really doing everything they can to prevent that from happening. If we see somewhere, diving in a concrete case, that something can or must be done better, we will do so immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u224	The Prime Minister has answered a number of individual questions in the first place, and he is doing so again, but that is of course not the crux of the debate. The crux of the debate is: can and should the fight against jihadism and terrorism be improved? The answer is yes twice. The Minister of V and J has reflected on his own role. He says: I too will have to do better. How does the Prime Minister reflect on his own role, for example, where European cooperation fails and services do not cooperate, while the Netherlands is President and should take the lead in merging those intelligence services and sharing information, so that the fight against jihadism really gets better? How does he reflect on his own role?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u225	That's a fair question. The easy answer would be for me, when it comes to the European agenda, to interfere with a number of dossiers and not to be directly involved in these dossiers at European level. They are at the level of the trade councils. That's the easy answer; that's what I said. I go back to the first answer I gave to Mr Pechtold about what I see as my task and whatever the definition of leadership is for me. You indicate where the team is going, you put the team together, with good people, like we did, and you also decide the culture in the team. Part of that culture is that it always hits the foreman in the first place when things don't go well. So if things can be even better and we can be even better on them, then so can I. Then I can assure Mr Segers that I will ensure that I am even closer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u226	Some doors really need to be pushed up, and maybe kicked open, because that information really needs to be shared and because the fight needs to be better. Major mistakes have been made and major attacks have been carried out, which could have been avoided. Those are very compelling questions. It is a matter of trust, not only from the Chamber but also from people in the country, including the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister also see it as his own responsibility to take the lead in this matter, when it is perhaps five past twelve and everything really has to be done to win this battle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u227	Always. I would like to add one thing, including from the reflection. There have been some terrible attacks in Ankara and Istanbul and, closer to home, twice in Paris and in Brussels, but also in Copenhagen. In general, we must be careful that, if there is an attack, the conclusion is: then people have made mistakes. I disagree with that conclusion. You can all do the right thing and be on top of everything, and then there can be an attack, just like murders happen and it's not the police's fault that that happens. But when it happens you always have to look at: are there mistakes behind this and could we have done things better? This applies to a murder which the police are investigating and to an attack, which we will always talk about here because of its terrible size, and if it is in the Netherlands, God forbid, of course, extra intensive. So we have to beware of the automatism of: something is happening, so a mistake has been made. 'Cause I don't agree with that. You can do everything right and then there can be an attack. But if it happens, we'll have to learn all the lessons and see what else would have happened. If mistakes have been made, we need to address those mistakes. That's exactly what we're doing here. That is why this debate is good and it is good that we took a time-out last week and dug a spa deeper to get all the facts straight. I was, of course, always connected to being in the process of being the whole story of the facts and the documents before the Chamber. When it was all done on Tuesday, we said to each other: at all 39 there was succession, the services did what they had to do. We also see exactly what lessons we can draw, together with Turkey, you name it. Then you see how important it is that you do that, that you evaluate it. I would like to add that I also think the spirit of this debate is that it is not for the sole purpose of pointing the finger and assigning political 'blam'. That is what I think is the strength of this debate here today. My feeling is that we are actually trying to gain insight here. Where can we do better? How can we do that? And how can we find broad support for that? I think that is what a mature democracy should do. It is not for me to compliment the Chamber or the Cabinet, but I think that is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u228	This brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the government. Is there a need for a short suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u229	There's been a little discussion. There's a need for suspension. Would 45 minutes be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u230	I note that there is no objection to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u231	We agreed to continue the debate around 4.05 p.m., but I understand that there is a request for an extension of the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u232	Yes, the groups of SP, GroenLinks, D66, ChristenUnion, SGP and CDA would like to extend the suspension until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u233	I look around: there is no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u234	We will continue with the debate on the attacks in Brussels. We have arrived at the third term of office. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u235	I thought you just said half an hour. Mr. Chairman. It is appalling, otherwise I cannot mention the terrorism policy of this cabinet and the Minister of Security and Justice in particular. Again, the Minister for Security and Justice, who has been blundering all along, says that he is going to learn lessons and that he is going to improve his political life. But the office of political boss of terror fighters, that is, the Minister of Justice, as a journalist tweeted it, is "no internship." The Minister is not fit for office. Surveys show that the Dutch people no longer trust him. He's lost his authority. A minister who has lost his authority in such an important post, that is impossible. Its policy is also flawed. Returned Syrians may walk freely on the streets as ticking time bombs instead of imprisoning them. In this way, an attack in the Netherlands will only become more likely. That too is irresponsible. From a terrorist who blows himself up and who was in the Netherlands, he refuses to check the corridors. Nor did he himself take any initiative, for example by calling his colleague in Belgium. He didn't do anything, and that's unbelievable. There can only be one conclusion, and that is that this minister is leaving today. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the Minister of Security and Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754, -375]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u236	Madam President. The Chamber held two long debates on the aftermath of the attacks in Brussels. The government's approach has been unsatisfactory in recent years. At the same time, it cannot be established that the actions or omissions of Dutch public authorities are the cause of the attacks. There is no doubt that this cabinet must show more determination and ambition, not only the Minister of Security and Justice, but also the Prime Minister. That's gotta be fast, 'cause it's five to twelve. The Minister's occasional clumsy response would quickly become the main focus of this debate. For the CDA, however, the question is how we can improve the fight against terrorism in this country. It is the duty of the Minister and the Prime Minister to show it now. The Netherlands sighs under the pressure of terror. Police, justice and defense are at risk of collapse. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas to date the Minister for Security and Justice has not been sufficiently proactive, alert and assertive;]] [[Whereas the seriousness of the threat of terrorism requires a more vigorous approach;]] [[whereas the police lack EUR 300 million to remain at least strong;]] [[Considering that the entire chain of counter-terrorism, such as the DSI, Defense, in particular the Royal Marechaussee and the Public Prosecutor's Office, suffers irresponsible capacity shortages;]] [[calls on the Government, by 1 May at the latest, to indicate how the Spring Note will provide for the closing of capacity gaps and how international cooperation in the exchange and analysis of data will be strengthened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Haersma Buma, Pechtold, Segers and Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-376]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u237	It is therefore essential in this motion for a resolution that the cabinet brings to the Spring Paper a real strengthening of the chain and no longer leaves it to words. I would also like to have a motion put to the vote tabled by the CDA earlier. That is Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion of 27 January 2016 (29754, no. 355) on ensuring that every returned jihadganger is taken into detention. In the event that some parties do not wish to support this motion, this motion was co-signed by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u238	The Van Toorenburg motion c.s. (29754, No. 335) is added to the voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u239	Mr. Chairman. We look back, in my eyes, two bizarre debates. This Minister of Justice has managed to allow a debate on the terrible events in Brussels to be entirely self-evident. That weighs heavily on my group. The question arises as to how it went in this debate and in previous debates. This debate was better than in the first debate. If I had to give it a grade, you'd be lucky enough to give it a grace-six. This minister wasn't up until 15 minutes before there was an answer. And it was only at the very last minute that a note was given by the Prime Minister saying that he had to say: I could have done things better. The question that my group has just had to answer is whether we are confident that this minister is the right minister in the Department of Security of Justice. Is security with this minister in the right hands? It would have been an option, as some colleagues do, to say that we are focusing on investment in the department or looking at how we can still put this minister under curatel. I'd like to be honest. I have no faith in this minister. That is why we will support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u240	Mr. Chairman. Today we have asked ourselves the question: is the Minister part of the solution or part of the problem? We see a minister who, according to him, has done everything right, but who waits in practice. We see a minister who has had to apologize time and time again, stacked error on error, but does not give the impression that he is learning from mistakes and solving the problem. Today's response seems to focus on cleaning up streets, not on ensuring safety in our country. This passive attitude of the Minister does not reassure us. On the contrary. He calls his commitment sufficient, because according to the letter he has done enough. But you can and must expect more from this minister at this time. You can expect him not to move until after a fuss over his position, but to do so by himself, because he himself wants it to be better than it is now. We can't do this anymore. Earlier, this minister was put under curately by the opposition. It is painful to conclude, but this minister has not given us the confidence to be part of the solution. That is why the SP Group will also vote in favour of the motion of censure that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u241	Mr. Chairman. This debate has dealt in a few parts with a horrible issue, namely an attack that took place again in Western Europe. What we are looking at here is the work of intelligence. The work of intelligence services is, of course, politically controlled. And that is work where you cannot always celebrate your successes, if something has gone well, but which is rightly looked at when mistakes have been made or questions arise. That is what happened in this debate. Hundreds of questions have been asked and fortunately many, although sometimes it took a while, have finally been answered. It was difficult for my group to look at the political responsibility of this minister. In the end, my group wants to give the Minister, who fortunately once in a while used the I form in the reflection, the opportunity to put his affairs in order, as far as he was not already doing so, and to settle further the matters mentioned in Mr Buma's motion. That is, I think, the most important thing for people who are currently wondering whether we are safe in the Netherlands. Yes, something may always go wrong, but we want the services, the ministry and the minister to be alert and on top of it. That is why my group supports Mr Buma's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u242	Mr. Chairman. After the terrible attack in Brussels, the image of the fight against terrorism has not always been trustworthy. The unrest of the last few weeks has been partly caused by the action of the Minister himself. That is why it was good to have today's debate and last week's debate. The first priority is the fight against terror and against jihadism. The Minister must take the lead in that. He has a leading role. We have heard many commitments today regarding registrations, European cooperation and service action. Will the Minister send the Chamber a letter as soon as possible in which these commitments are made concretely? The spring note will require real money for the police, the DSI, the State's Attorney's Office and the military. That is why we have wholeheartedly signed Mr Buma's motion. I have three motions of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of an expulsion from Turkey under foreign law, there is a good chance that there is a traveller or a person intending to travel to the IS area;]] [[calls on the Government to register, interrogate and investigate all those who are formally expelled from Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-377]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u243	We have also talked about deradicalisation and its importance. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has for some time had an exit facility for radicalised persons;]] [[Whereas, according to the study "After release," professionals are concerned about the non-committality of reintegration pathways for radicalised persons;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for travellers to participate in a deradicalisation programme;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what measures can be taken to ensure that, as far as possible, a deradicalisation programme can be imposed in the event of prosecution of terrorism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Zijlstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-378]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u244	Finally, I shall table a motion to prosecute returners by all means we have. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable to use all criminal means to hold returned jihad fighters responsible for their contribution to the armed jihad;]] [[noting that the legal possibilities for pre-trial detention in terrorist offences have already been extended;]] [[Considering that, on the basis of recent case law, there may be reasonable suspicions of returners giving rise to pre-trial detention rather quickly;]] [[Considering that the possibility in Article 67 (4) Sv to speed up the decision on provisional detention in the case of terrorist offences is limited to the first 14 days of remand;]] [[points out that administrative detention without the intervention of the judge is undesirable;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify the existing possibilities for pre-trial detention of returners and, if necessary, to present proposals for further extension of the possibilities for such detention, on the basis that pre-trial detention always takes place in the context of criminal proceedings and is regularly reviewed by a court;]] [[further requests the Government to consider, at least in order to achieve what has been envisaged, whether the scope of Article 67 (4) Sv should be extended to other stages of pre-trial detention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Samsom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-379]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u245	My very last sentences are coming now. The Minister must get to work to repair the public damage. That will be an important task for him. We'll keep the Minister's word. We insist that the fight against terrorism is better, more assertive and with greater commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u246	Mr. Chairman. This debate was about the aftermath of the terrible attacks in Brussels, about what the Netherlands can and must do to prevent attacks. It is good that the debate was suspended last week. The cabinet has used the intervening time well to do further research and to inform the Chamber about this. And the Minister has used time well to reflect on his own role. In this debate, he said that he too could have done better. I appreciate that. All these answers show that it went well 39 times with the expulsion of potential jihadists from Turkey, and not once, but the prevention of attacks is about the one, and so we need to do better. The cabinet has learned lessons and comes with improvements. On one of these improvements, I will specifically table a motion, together with Mr Pechtold, on a point on which my group has been calling for some time, namely European cooperation against terrorism. This must be done without obligation, and this Minister must take care of it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is broad support within the EU for plans aimed at improving the exchange of information and cooperation on combating terrorism and preventing radicalisation;]] [[considers that this support should be translated into unconditional and compelling forms of information exchange by police and intelligence services;]] [[considers that EU Member States' police services should be required to share data on potential terrorist threats, for example through Europol's terrorist desk;]] [[calls on the Government to present within the current Presidency a proposal for unconditional and compelling exchange of information in the field of police and intelligence services within the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Samsom and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-380]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u247	Mr. Chairman. After the terrible attacks in Brussels, we had several debates here in the House of Representatives and it is good that the debate was suspended last week. In order to reach a final verdict in this debate, we have used two criteria as guidelines to assess the behaviour of the cabinet. First of all, the question was: is the Minister, is the cabinet to be blamed for their attitude to the fight against terrorism? Unfortunately, I have to answer that question with a yes, because we see that the Minister needed a lot of words in order to achieve some self-reflective capacity. Secondly, we looked at the improvements for the future. Will this Minister be a good Minister of Justice? I regret to conclude that we do not have the confidence to entrust security to him, and that is why we will vote for the motion of censure for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u248	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. Security and Justice is an important department in the fight against terrorism and the bar is high. The Minister of Security and Justice has noticed that. He is critically questioned, written and oral. If we take stock after a long debate and after many written questions and answers, our conclusion is that no serious mistakes have been made that can justify a vote of no confidence in the SGP Group's view. That's the first thing. The second is the question of whether or not we can and should work more vigorously. To quote the Minister himself: there can and must be more proactive, more alert, more assertive action. Profits can and must be made there. The motion of Haersma Buma's colleague co-signed the SGP and that is a firm incentive motion. Finally, I would like to make a motion myself, because the co-signatory of a number of other motions shows our position in the areas mentioned, but I would like to table a motion myself in the area of the district agent. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Police Act 2012 defines that the district agent as part of a base team for the benefit of a municipality is available for the performance of the police task;]] [[Considering that law and legal history make it clear that the number of district agents is a legal minimum per municipality and municipal capacity, and that this should not depend on twitching within the region;]] [[Considering that the regional mayors indicate that the fight against terrorism requires additional capacity, without prejudice to the maintenance of the legal standard;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that each municipality has access to the legally guaranteed number of district agents for the purposes of local priorities and that the additional capacity required in relation to terrorist threats should not be at the expense of the district agents elsewhere, to consult the regional mayors and inform the Chamber by 1 June at the latest how the legal standard is guaranteed and to consider the possibilities for providing additional capacity in neighbourhoods with complex problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Roemer, Mr Segers and Mr Pechtold.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-381]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u249	Mr. Chairman. The debate on the Minister's actions has shown time and time again that he has insufficient control over his ministry. Confidence in the prevention of terrorism in the Netherlands has fallen to a low point. Several times the fate of the minister hung by a thread, he got a very last chance and the benefit of a lot of doubt. If the Minister now gets the chance to stumble, it will not benefit security and justice, just as it will not benefit the politicians who are already struggling. We shall therefore vote in favour of the motion of censure tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u250	Mr. Chairman. The fight against terrorism and national security are not in good hands with this minister. This has been demonstrated on all sides in the debate. It was unheard of. I will wholeheartedly support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u251	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for its comprehensive reply. I would also like to thank you for the commitment that people who are expelled from Schengen will be deported to the country of nationality. It's a good thing that that can't be extended anymore. The debate has shown that security is a fundamental prerequisite for democracy and a functioning society. That has come out very clearly and shared. That's where the worries come from. It has been widely stated in the Chamber today that security needs to be supported in a wide range of areas. There are motions on finance. It's hard to anticipate when there's no coverage, but the signal is clear. It is also clear that a number of steps in the field of data exchange and data exchange have been taken in the Chamber today. In the past there have been discussions about privacy, but today we have taken a step in this direction. That's good news. There is also good news on the PNR Directive. A lot is being done. There can be things better. However, we must realise that things can go wrong. We have to face that reality. If at some point no call is made, or if someone doesn't look into a system for a few hours, it may happen that someone slips through it, even in the future. That reality has also emerged today, however uncomfortable it may be. It is important that there is a legal basis to allow people who have been to terrorist territory, for example to Syria, and who are a potential danger to our society, to be locked up on return. There's no basis for that right now. The VVD will certainly support the motion tabled by the Christian Union and the PvdA to create more opportunities to extend the provisional detention. The basic point, however, is that these people must be taken into custody. That is why we are again tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Dutch travel to Syria to participate in the armed struggle as a member of a terrorist organisation and on return pose a threat to Dutch security;]] [[Whereas this is undesirable;]] [[Whereas it is in the interests of the safety of the Netherlands to arrest, interrogate and prosecute any returned jihad traveller;]] [[Whereas the rule of law should provide a sound legal basis for this;]] [[calls on the Government to criminalise the voluntary residence in territory controlled by a terrorist organisation, except for exceptions to, for example, journalists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Zijlstra, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-382]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u252	In this debate, Members of Parliament are presenting a lot of issues and they expect all possible from the Minister to tackle Syrians and terrorists. As I said in the first term, I hope that the same consideration among those Members of Parliament will affect their voting behaviour in this motion. This possibility is not now in the law, but we do need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u253	Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group is not convinced by the Minister. This is worrying, because, unfortunately, we cannot blindly rely on security at this difficult time. All the more reason to demand this from the person responsible for this. The broom really has to go through the Ministry. The 50PLUS Group also pointed out in the first place that the legislation and regulations at European level were inadequate. In addition, 50PLUS has been surprised by the fact that a resident of a Schengen country can choose which country it can be deported to and thus disappears under the radar. Of course you can't. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of expulsion from a non-Treaty country, a resident of a Schengen country may choose the Schengen country to which he wishes to be expelled;]] [[whereas a person is not deported for nothing;]] [[Whereas an expanding country does not have sufficient powers to share information about the person deployed with a country other than that of the resident;]] [[Whereas this may lead to the deliberate expulsion of the expelled person to another country;]] [[calls on the Government, within the framework of Schengen, to take the initiative to put an end to this very undesirable situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-383]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u254	Finally. It remains appalling that it is only after something so terrible has happened that gaps in the agreements and systems are discovered. People are very concerned about this, and rightly so. All things considered, 50PLUS will therefore support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u255	This brings us to the end of the third term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u256	Mr. Chairman. I myself would like to speak on the first two motions. The Minister for Security and Justice will speak on the other motions. The motion in part No. 375, I'm not sure. In the motion in part No. 376 states at the end that no later than 1 May, it is necessary to close the gaps in international cooperation in the exchange of information and its analysis and strengthening. I agree with that part. In addition, however, the motion refers to a claim under the Spring Note. It must, of course, be weighed in full in the Cabinet. That claim is, of course, strictly non-formally covered. I understand very well, of course, the signal from this motion. This signal also reflects the conclusions of the debate with the Minister for Security and Justice on the 2016 budget and the Van der Staaij motion. So we sail on those compasses. In that sense, I consider this motion to be a further incentive. However, it goes against the internal working methods of the cabinet in such a way that I must discourage the claim section. But once again, we are going to try to make the data exchange part work. I have one more point. It's about the Wiv's planning. I said that right last time and I didn't. Mr Wilders says I made a mistake, I hear. I'm gonna fix the mistake, too. On April 12th, the law enters the Under-Council, on April 15th, in the Cabinet, and then goes to the Council of State. I just said something else. I said it very well during the previous debate. I'll repeat it here. On 15 April, he goes to the Council of State, as we know. That highest advisory body looks at the legislative proposals before they come here. The Minister of Security and Justice may address the other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u257	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It calls on the government to ensure that everyone who is expelled from Turkey is registered, interviewed and investigated and, in doing so, checked with Turkey. Given the debate, this is support for policy. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 378 of Mr Segers and Mr Zijlstra are invited to ensure that the deradicalisation programme is as much as possible part of the prosecution process. That means, of course, that the judge is involved. In that respect, the motion supports policy. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I shall now come to the motion for a resolution on item 379 by Mr Segers and Mr Samsom. We discussed in detail in the first debate the possibility of extending the provisional detention. I am very positive about that. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 380 by Mr Samsom and Mr Pechtold, the Government is invited to come forward with a proposal for unconditional and binding information exchange. We shared in the debate that we consider the starting point to be very important. On 21 April, I will have the first opportunity to address this issue. I'll make that proposal, too. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Van der Staaij motion in part No. 381, co-signed by Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Roemer, Mr Segers and Mr Pechtold, is a little more complicated. Mr Van der Staaij has already tabled a motion. At that time, I promised to take action and start talking to the mayors. We share the premise that we have to fill out the agreements we have on district agents. I also exchanged views with Mr Van der Staaij on the fact that we depend on the implementation and completion of the reorganisation of staff. This means that before the summer we will definitely know if there are any vacancies left. The Chamber knows that at least at the level of government aggregation 96% of the vacancies for required district agents have now been filled. The motion also calls for it to be translated at local level. That is the responsibility of the local government. I have already promised that I would gladly do so, that I would like to have that conversation with the mayors of the region. I already have, and I will continue to do so. The motion then states that before 1 June I must inform the Chamber how the legal standard is guaranteed and that I must offer additional capacity in neighbourhoods with complex problems. There I really have a practical problem, because this is part of the assignment to the Committee Evaluation Police Act 2012. She won't be coming with her final judgment until next year. May I explain the motion to Mr Van der Staaij as follows? First of all, I am committed to making the most of my efforts to ensure that, as part of this staff reorganisation, the number of district agents is up as quickly as possible. Secondly, I undertake not only to consult on what needs to be available, but also to take that next step and go into depth, so as to ensure that these district agents can actually carry out those activities and be adequately present on the basis of the authority of local authority. I shall then consider whether it is possible to remove this part of the committee's mandate from that committee. I really need to be able to weigh up the pros and cons of that. I will look into that in order to arrive at a conclusion and a proposal for a solution earlier than in 2017. I am prepared to do so, but I will tell Mr Van der Staaij that if it turns out that it is really unwise not to let that committee do its job, I will return to this in a letter to the Chamber. Knowing Mr Van der Staaij, he will understand that. If I may explain the motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u258	With this interpretation of the Minister, I can live well. I note that the same applies to the spokesmen who co-signed the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u259	Thank you. The judgment on the motion in part No. So I'll leave 381 to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. 382 we've talked to before. It calls for the voluntary residence on territory controlled by a terrorist organisation to be punishable. I have already said in the previous discussion of this motion that I am sympathetic to this in itself. We've been looking into it for that reason, too. The opinion of the Scientific Research Office states that it would not be feasible. I therefore have no other advice than I had earlier on this motion. I'm curious to hear the Court's opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u260	Something's happened since then. Judgments have been made, including in Arnhem and Rotterdam. They seem to indicate that the underlying legal basis we seek here is taken into account by judges in their judgments about Syrians. Is it not up to us, the legislator, to ensure this in the law? I would therefore ask the Minister to take note of these statements. They seem to contradict the advice he received earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u261	I shall return to that before the vote, for the sake of purity. Or are all the motions that have just been tabled now being put to the vote, Mr President? I don't know about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u262	No, we're not going to vote on that until next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u263	Before the vote, then, I will reflect on those statements to which Mr Zijlstra refers. I will therefore look into whether there has been any added value in this light for this motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 383, tabled by Mr Krol. This motion deals with an issue which was brought to my attention by both Mr Klaver and Mr Zijlstra. I made specific commitments on this. I therefore agree with the motion, but I would like to say that I have already made an explicit commitment in the motion, both to Mr Klaver and to Mr Zijlstra. I leave the vote to the Chamber, but there is a concrete commitment. I could take advantage of the innovation we have obtained from Mr Van der Staaij and take over the motion. I think it's a good idea to do that. I'd like to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u264	I note that there is no objection to this. The Krol motion (29754, No. 383) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u265	Finally, a comment on the motion put to the vote tabled by Mrs Van Toorenburg, with the support of Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Tellegen. That motion has been given an opinion by me before. The motion asks for people to be detained, even if there is no suspicion. I have said that this is not possible in the Dutch system, but that I am acting in the spirit of the motion. Indeed, in the letter of amendment to the law which is now ready for plenary consideration, I have already said that I can strengthen the ban on territory, which I, as a minister, can impose in the event of concerns about someone, by means of an ankle bracelet. This is done in the spirit of the motion. However, I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u266	I have one more question. I was still on my way here and then the Prime Minister had the motion tabled by me in part No. 376 already dissuaded. I understand the Prime Minister's saying he's dissuading the motion because there's no cover in it. That's a prime minister's job. However, the concern expressed in the motion is very great. We can see what happens with the vote on the motion, but I would ask the Prime Minister to indicate what can be done before the Spring paper is discussed, so that we can then debate whether it is sufficient or not. The motion refers to the date of 1 May. We call on the Prime Minister to stop by and provide us with an answer so that we can have a proper debate in the spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u267	I have to look at that. The Spring paper concerns the 2016 budget and not the 2017 budget. A commitment was made by the Minister for Security and Justice during the examination of the V and J budget. I will go back to that commitment and see how it has been formulated. I think it affects the 2017 budget. I will look again at the commitment and see what can be done. However, I do not dare to make firm commitments about this. It also depends on how far we are with the decision-making process, both on the 2016 budget and on the 2017. The Spring Note comes to the Chamber at some point, but the Spring Decision on the 2017 budget does not go to the Chamber. He won't be back till Prince's Day. Here's what I'm gonna do. I hear what Mr Buma says in his motion. I will not respond to it now, but I have heard his words correctly. I will look into exactly what the Minister of Security and Justice has promised and then see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u268	I understand perfectly the Prime Minister's answer. Our position is that the Marechaussee and DSI are under much greater pressure or are being suggested. That needs to be looked at. We would like to see an answer to that before 1 May. Otherwise, we will come back to it when we discuss the Spring Paper, because we believe that the problem is already occurring in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u269	We will see what can be done with the Spring Note. We'll see what's possible. Let's do it this way. The Minister for Security and Justice is now whispering to me that what he said earlier about the Royal Marechaussee relates only to waiting times at Schiphol Airport, which are likely to be longer. Mr Buma's question goes on. I'll see what I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u270	The prime minister said the spring note is about this year. However, it is mainly about what can be done next year. Does he recognise the political point that we discussed in detail when discussing the budget for Justice and Security 2016 as to whether there is enough money for police, OM and so on and that it was also said that the Spring Paper will look at what extra can be done in 2016? In this sense, there is a very special spring note on the security domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u271	That is why I said that I will look into the precise commitment made by the Minister of Security and Justice. There was a very precise conclusion to the debate on the budget for security and justice. That debate was later held on the other side, but certainly also here. I have already said that this is one of the two anchors that we are looking at, in addition to the motion tabled by Mr Van der Staaij himself on defence, with all the ifs and buts associated with that motion. Along those lines we will try to solve it; see if we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-07-tweedekamer-7.u273	This brings us to the end of this debate. The motion of censure will be put to the vote this evening after the three VOCs. The other motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
