ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. There are six speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u2	Mr. Chairman. On technical issues too, it is good to look at what is at the heart of what we are actually aiming for, because we are people's representatives here. Rejected from all technical frills in this case concerns the following questions. How do people get the best possible choice of flight destinations and a high-quality product, at the lowest possible rate, at Schiphol Airport? Will the Netherlands remain an attractive location? Does it get jobs? Can holidaymakers fly pleasantly to and from our country? These are the criteria for the VVD Group in the legislative proposal we are discussing today. Two principles stand out: strengthening the competitive position of Schiphol and preventing abuse of the dominant position of the airport. At the same time, no substantial policy change is envisaged. The VVD Group considers the bill to be based on three criteria, which are paradoxical in some respects: is the policy on Schiphol airport changed? Do we prevent abuse of the economic power position of Schiphol? Are we making Schiphol's position stronger in the fierce international competition? There are a number of aspects to the legislative proposal which my group considers to be good and useful, such as: the introduction of a multi-annual tariff setting, providing more security for both the airport and the airlines; the introduction of efficiency incentives that force Schiphol to complete projects on time and within the budget; improving the consultation procedure for new investments; require a financial contribution from non-aeronautical activities to the aviation activities. This makes Schiphol cheaper and therefore more attractive. However, I do have a number of questions about the practical effects, for which there is, or still has to be, chosen. This bill is extremely technical and detailed, as everyone who has read it will agree. However, the precise impact has yet to be defined in a General Management Measure (AMvB).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u3	In my opinion, it was not so long ago that there were voices calling for the privatisation of Schiphol. I know the VVD as a party that is very much in favour of companies holding up their own pants as much as possible and being run as companies. Am I supposed to see this as a rapprochement from the VVD to the left wing of this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u4	I wouldn't jump to that conclusion if I were you. We're just looking at the reality of everyday life. We see how in the shared vision or the joint consultation we have come to a solution that everyone can agree to. At the end of the day, we can agree with that. That is what I am trying to explain and defend here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u5	We're getting a company that's being sent by the state in three or four ways. It looks a lot like what we've got on the trail. You'll be given guidance through the state participation. You're gonna get a bigger lead from the Secretary of State. You have management control at a fairly detailed level. And you get guidance at the surrounding facilities. Isn't that contrary to the VVD's normal vision of a business approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u6	I understand that Mrs Van Tongeren has already started to read out her own contribution and to comment on the bill. That's her right. Schiphol is a special company, which also has a certain social purpose. We all see them. Schiphol is incredibly important for employment, but also for maintaining the network. That is why we can support the legislative proposal now before us, although we have some questions about it here and there. If that's in line with what Mrs Van Tongeren wants, I wouldn't be too sorry about that if I were her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u7	Your turn will come soon, Mrs Van Tongeren, so you will soon be able to give your opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would've stayed with the General Measure of Governance that's still coming. Certain effects of the bill are difficult to assess without knowing the contents of the AMvB. Can the Secretary of State promise that the AMvB will be placed before the Chamber in good time, as it is called, so that we can also watch and, if necessary, adjust to the outcome? That seems important to us. When writing the AMvB, will there be enough room for Schiphol to make policy changes or to respond to rapidly changing global aviation? That is a very important point for my group. In addition to wanting to prescribe business operations in too detailed detail, perhaps that is indirectly an answer to one of Mrs Van Tongeren's questions, another possible danger is in more and more detailed legal arrangements that the Secretary of State can be addressed earlier if the business at Schiphol would not go according to the wishes of certain groups in this house or certain organisations outside this house. The VVD absolutely doesn't want this. How is this prevented? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that the detailed rules are in place to prevent abuse of power and to clarify arrangements around Schiphol, while the role of the Secretary of State in this matter remains and should remain the same? That is an important point for us. Then there is the compulsory payment, which has been made partly through the intervention of the Ministry of I and M, after a lot of scrambles between the parties involved in recent years. Every once in a while, those were invigorating scenes. It has been agreed that part of the revenues of, for example, the shops and parking spaces at Schiphol Airport are used for non-aeronautical activities such as landing rights, technical provisions and use of the terminal, i.e. aviation activities. As a result, charges for airlines can be reduced and Schiphol remains attractive as one of the largest airports in Europe and as an employer, both directly and indirectly, of hundreds of thousands of Dutch. I was just talking to Mrs Van Tongeren about that. This bill will make the payment, which has already taken place voluntarily in recent years, compulsory, provided that the creditworthiness of Schiphol Airport and the standard return to shareholders are not compromised. Nor does the payment have to be made under "I quote the explanatory statement on page 16 "other circumstances and considerations relevant to the airport operator'. What is the reason for this phrase, which I understand has also led to raised eyebrows for a number of airlines? In administrative law, such a sweeping clause is often used, as we all know, to rule out any argument or situation in advance. However, the purpose of this part of the bill is precisely to provide more certainty, not less. So why is it not limited to some specific exceptions? Doesn't that phrase make the compulsory payment a paper tiger? Should the Secretary of State be able to argue in substance why this is necessary, how will it be monitored? I would like to hear it, because also for the handling of what could become a future elastic clause, the VVD-fraction seems to be of great importance. The bill also introduces so-called efficiency incentives, which give Schiphol an even greater financial interest in completing investments above EUR 20 million on time and within the budget than would already be the case on the basis of normal, sound management. If the additional costs exceed 5%, they are borne by Schiphol Airport and should not be passed on to airlines or passengers. My group considers this to be a good measure, and it also understands the exception in the case of causes of force majeure. I do question the chosen maximum duration of four and a half years. I read in the note following the report that the ACM (Authority Consumer & Market) also raises these questions. Indeed, in aviation, investment projects and write-off periods sometimes take decades. In such projects, often involving hundreds of millions of euros, an incentive is important. Is a period of four and a half years not therefore far too short? Would projects such as the new A-pier, the construction of the new civil airport at Lelystad and the construction of the Polderbaan be faster and cheaper with this scheme or would it rather provide an incentive to shift the cost overruns to a later period? I look forward to responding to this important point with interest. My group would also like to hear why it is argued that shareholdership is less appropriate to safeguard public interests, while shareholdership normally comes into view only if public interests cannot or cannot be sufficiently secured by law and regulation. My group wonders whether this is not a new approach to State participation policy. Finally, I come to the ACM, which is given tasks by this bill. How much budget does the Secretary of State expect for this? Is that from the current budget of the ACM or from new resources? I would like an explanation of that. It is therefore a large number of questions, on which my group, in favour as always, awaits the answer by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u9	As Mr Elias has just said, we generally have state participations to serve the general interest. The VVD Group also enthusiastically supported the Paris Energy Agreement and the Climate Treaty. I would therefore like to know how the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that this legislative proposal will better safeguard general interests. Or is this bill perhaps just a little less secure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u10	I do not know whether we have so enthusiastically agreed to this agreement, but at least we have agreed to it. That's a fact. It is about finding a balance and this balance will have to be kept up in practice every time. If you did not settle this, there would be no man overboard in terms of the climate agreement, and that is not the other way round. So I do not see the relationship very well, but perhaps Mrs Van Tongeren can explain that. I think we are dealing here in a decent way that Schiphol can continue in good consultation with the users of Schiphol. In any case, I believe that this is the end of the political stranglehold of recent years and that clear frameworks will be created within which surgery will take place. For me, that is one of the most important points. All in all, I am quite positive about the way in which this bill has taken shape, but I had already argued that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u11	I would like to invite Mr Elias to spend an afternoon at the GroenLinks Group to look at what aviation has to do with climate change, but we will not discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u12	Maybe you could cut down on that moralistic tone a little bit? We differ on things; that can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u13	Mr Elias, perhaps you could just let Mrs Van Tongeren speak out so that she can ask her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u14	I'd be happy to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u15	I call Mrs Van Tongeren. She wanted to ask a question and you can answer it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u16	I have made an invitation to further explain what climate change has to do with aviation. Mr Elias asked me to do so, and I do so with love and pleasure. However, I had a specific question. We are now going to send out a state participation at a very detailed level with all kinds of efficiency incentives. If we do that, why not implement government policy, namely energy policy, and a treaty that we have just concluded? If you say that we have to distribute real estate income well over the costs that airlines have to pay for a slot, should we not, therefore, take a look at Mr Elias's proposal for "schiphol' to see if we can regulate the general interest of climate and energy in a more detailed way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u17	I used the moralizing tone that I get tired of every once in a while. I find that tone very annoying. We think about things politically differently, but Mrs van Tongeren regularly interrupts, saying from the top: you haven't quite understood it yet; come visit us again, and we will explain it to you again. At least that doesn't help me. That is my first point. My second point is that we have chosen to do so here. I didn't ask the Secretary of State a question about that for nothing. In any case, I do not intend to propose in my group that the climate issue should be dealt with in the same way through State participation policy and in the direction Mrs Van Tongeren wishes. That's the answer to her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u18	That's a clear answer. Contrary to the order of the list of speakers, Mr Van Helvert has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u19	Mr. Chairman. Schiphol is a hundred years old this year. In April 1916, the Secretary of State for War approved the purchase of land near Fort Schiphol to set up a military airport: Schiphol Airport. That must appeal to the chairman. In August of that year the site was made suitable to serve as an airport. There were four wooden sheds placed. Now, 100 years later, Schiphol is a vital link in the Dutch economy. It serves a great public interest. Surely it deserves great respect that Schiphol with such a small hinterland now there are 17 million inhabitants, but 100 years ago there were a lot less..................................................................................................................................................................... Schiphol Airport is operated by Schiphol Airport. To this end, Schiphol has a dominant position with regard to the landing and take-off of aircraft, the parking of aircraft and the handling of passengers and cargo. Schiphol is therefore in fact monopolist. The great respect we have for Schiphol should not make us lazy as representatives of the people. We need to see if everything's going well and how we can make Schiphol stronger in the position we have. That monopoly position makes us extra alert, despite the great respect. The State is also a shareholder. There is a tendency to be guided by incorrect incentives. We're gonna have to keep track of that. With the current Aviation Act, we want to prevent or reduce the risk of abuse of Schiphol's dominant position. That's why we're here. How can we have as many destinations as possible, how can we have cheap flights, how can we be competitive and how can we prevent abuse of power? To this end, I heard Mr Elias speak fine words on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u20	Is it true that the 2011 evaluation showed that this law worked well and that there was no abuse of dominant position? Does my colleague agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u21	I turn the page for the rest of my speech and I see that I continue with that. Let me put it this way: I am not accusing Schiphol of abuse of power, but we are being asked to make sure that there has not been and that it will not be. I will return to this question in a moment. The law was reviewed in 2011 and the evaluation shows that the law has generally worked well. However, improvements are possible. The CDA is positive about different parts of the law. I'll mention the most important ones. Firstly, the strengthening of the obligation to consult airlines in the establishment of tariffs and conditions. Eventually they will have to do it together: Schiphol can't do without the companies and the companies can't do without Schiphol. Secondly, we think that the guidelines for achieving new policy objectives and developments are very good. Thirdly, I would like to mention the legal anchoring of the importance of network quality. We really want to keep them for the Netherlands, because that is why Schiphol is able to fulfil that role. Fourthly, I would like to highlight the need for a competitive level of cost and price quality. We must also pay close attention to the latter. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the role of the Consumer and Market Authority. In the documents I read that in the run-up to the bill the relationship between Schiphol and the KLM has been the subject of discussion. We all know that that didn't always work out very well. We urge the Secretary of State to help prevent such conflicts as much as possible. Of course, it is mostly up to both parties, but the Secretary of State must keep an eye on how things are going. I have said before that the director of Schiphol and the director of the KLM may need to drink a good glass of beer regularly. If that's what I'm buying, I'd be happy to. Fighting is wrong energy and ultimately at the expense of our common interest and a functioning KLM and a functioning Schiphol. There's a shared vision now. What's the status? Is the cold out of the sky? How does the Secretary of State or how can she help prevent us from staying in it? I sincerely hope that the Secretary of State does not say that it is just something from those two parties and that she is not doing anything about it. I understand that both parties play a leading role in this. In preparing this law, the CDA asked questions about the capacity and resources of the Authority Consumer & Market. An increase of €50,000 in the budget is requested. Is this necessary in the eyes of the Secretary of State? If so, do we have that money? If not, what should we do about it? Can the ACM do its job well now? The Barin, the industry organisation of airlines in the Netherlands, advocates a tightening up of this law. We welcome the fact that the airlines are calling for a mandatory contribution from Schiphol to the direct aviation activities, but isn't that a paper tiger? I heard the VVD say, too. In fact, there is a condition: the compulsory contribution is only there if it does not jeopardise the continuity of the company and the financial viability of the airport operator's investments. Who decides whether the continuity of the company is in danger? If the continuity of the company is at risk, there are likely to be far greater problems than that contribution to the airlines. When it comes to the financing of investments, there is another piece. I saw a very interesting amendment by the Labour Party passing by. After six years, others too, i.e. all companies have to contribute to the financing of investments. The fear that the financing of investments will be compromised is therefore already covered by the other side. Actually, we're doing it double. We put that compulsory contribution at risk and we ensure that after six years everyone has to pay for it if Schiphol cannot finance it itself. You can't do that together. We are therefore not so enthusiastic about this criterion. I have tabled an amendment on this and I am very curious to hear the Secretary of State's opinion on it. We are actually saying: just say that there is a compulsory contribution, because in the end these companies are all making people in those shops, restaurants and parking garages earn money for Schiphol. The ultimate goal, as the VVD rightly said, is that we have cheap flights. That must be reflected in the ticket price. If we adopt this amendment in the Chamber and say that this contribution is compulsory, then I also think that the airlines have an obligation to show that this money has reduced the ticket price. The Board of Airline Representatives In the Netherlands (BARIN) also argues that airlines do not pay for cost overruns of Schiphol Airport. Those are the six years I've been talking about. The proposal is that the risk of large investments is only at the airport during the first six years, after which the airlines will all have to pay the remaining 20 or 30 years. We therefore share the vision of BARIN and also the concern that the Labour Party will soon express about it that this is an unrealistic and rather insecure distribution of risks. Can the Secretary of State give her views on this, also in conjunction with the two amendments that are before us? All in all, the CDA is positive about the law, let's put it first. There's still a question for us. There are more situations similar to the situation of Schiphol, where there are monopoly positions, but where the State is a shareholder. I mention ProRail, for example, which we will soon be discussing in this Chamber. We think it would be good to use the positive experiences around Schiphol as best practices in other files. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u22	I have one final question, namely the difference between the privatisation of Schiphol Airport or even further state intervention. We often sit together in debates on the railways and share the criticism of those four directions. I just quickly googled, it was a motion from the CDA, from Yvonne van Rooy, who once gave the start for the privatisation of Schiphol and it was PvdA'er Lodewijk Asscher who actually blocked it from Amsterdam. Now I hear the CDA agrees to this law. So has the CDA actually been converted and is it now fully in favour of running Schiphol as a state-owned company?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u23	I myself could not mention the year of that motion from the CDA. Given what we have learned in time, we have absolutely no need to oppose the shared vision of Schiphol and KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u24	Mr. Chairman. I would almost reflect on this moving insight among many about what to privatise and what not. Perhaps the Secretary of State will speak about this in an ambush. Indeed, all of a sudden the images of Mr Zalm, who in his former capacity called on the young current Deputy Prime Minister to hand over the shares from Amsterdam. Fortunately, we are now living in other times and we are now talking about a law that brings the entire operation into a more quiet sailing water, so that we no longer have to carry out all kinds of antics to invest in airports around the world. Today we are talking about the operation of the airport Schiphol, one of the largest runway engines in our country. The estimates vary, but our country's airport has an indirect added value of 27 billion to our economy and provides some 300,000 jobs directly and indirectly. We're going to talk about the future of that soon. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State's agenda for action is there. We will meet again at the end of June. Schiphol is a state participation, a nv, a state-nv. Almost 70% is owned by the State and Schiphol made nearly 375 million profits in 2015. That's 10.4% of own funds. In 2014, the revenues from the Schipholdivend for the State were almost 100 million. Schiphol is also doing well in an international perspective. It is one of the cheapest airports for users in Europe. But Schiphol is also a monopolist, and this requires a special responsibility of the airport, of the NV, towards the users. It's a monopolist where some of us consume and others work. A monopolist for aviation activities, but also for non-aeronautical activities. A monopolist with a huge impact on the environment, the residents. I will go through these different users in my contribution, to see what happens to those different groups when they face a state-nv or a monopolist. Let me just start with the subject we should be discussing as representatives of the people: we, the citizens, in this case the passengers and passengers. I want to tell one story about this: the story of the two brown sandwiches. I hope that the Secretary of State will be in this position for a very long time as Secretary of State or Minister, but sooner or later there will be a moment when she herself walks on Schiphol with her trolley alone, or with her family or others, not through the VIP spaces, but just across Schiphol. Then at some point, she's like, "You know what? I'm in the mood for a brown sandwich. I'm past customs and I can't go back, so I'm going to buy a brown sandwich." You take two brown sandwiches. You put it on top of each other. Before you put them on top of each other, put a little lettuce on it. Maybe you'll put a little butter on it. You put a slice of cheese in there, you cut them in half, and you have two brown sandwiches. Then you put them in a package. If the Secretary of State wants to buy it, she will find that she doesn't get it for €1. She doesn't get it for €2. I can go on for a while, but I'll speed it up for the sake of time. At the moment you have lost €5.25 at Schiphol behind customs for two brown sandwiches. I am also from the age of the guilder; in other words, we are currently paying about 12 guilders for two brown sandwiches behind customs at Schiphol. That can't be right! I'll just bring it as simple as it is. This means that a monopolist requires far too high rents from those who rent those spaces and that those who sell sandwiches also charge far too high prices. Family opinion that has yet to begin his holiday trip is €40, €50 further because everyone has ordered a drink with a sandwich. That's what we need to look at. What do we do with that? In my opinion, this is far too high a cost. Maybe I'm too sober in this and I have to think it's fantastic that money is being made there. I would like to thank those people, but the question is whether there is not a monopolist here who is just pulling a leg on travellers. Shouldn't the ACM (Authority Consumer & Market) even look at this? I am convinced that it is not necessary to pay €5.25 for two brown sandwiches with a leaf of lettuce and a piece of cheese on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u25	Mrs Belhaj has now grown hungry, so I am happy to give her the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u26	I thought after dinner it should be possible!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u27	Cheese sandwiches always go in. I have been triggered by this fine example to make a point of this. In the past, a whole bread of course cost only 1 guilder, but suppose a cheese sandwich would cost another 2 guilders 50. That's supposed to come from somewhere. It could be that the charges passed on to airlines would go up in the current fine balance. Then it'll end up with that one citizen. Whether he has to pay through his ticket or through his cheese sandwich, does it matter? I am genuinely interested in how Mr Monasch sees the balance if you had to pay less for your cheese sandwich.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u28	That is a very fair question. That's why I started with the fact that the N.V. Airport Schiphol made 350 million profits in 2015. I would like to give it to everyone, especially if it is in the hands of the public, but the question is whether this profit is not artificially so high because it is possible to ask for prices that are reasonable for me as ordinary citizens at usury prices, to people who cannot go any other way at the time. The question is right and I think the Secretary of State will go into that too, but I also see what a huge profit is being made at Schiphol Airport. I know of acquaintances who are active in that kind of hospitality not at Schiphol Airport, but elsewhere that the operators also put pressure on. It also works that way at NS Vastgoed. They say, "Aren't those prices supposed to go up a bit? You're too cheap. We need to raise prices. If you perform them, we can all ask for higher prices." There is often no fair competition at all in this area. The operator is encouraged to maintain higher prices. So the question is correct, but I think this question should be asked in the light of so much profit. So a lot of profit has been made, a substantial amount. A state participation that makes such a big profit must also take good care of its staff. Just now good employership is under pressure, at a time of flexibilisation and zzp'ers. In the opinion of my group, Schiphol as a state-owned company should serve as an example at its own site. At present, 80% of jobs at Schiphol Airport are deployed through sub-contractors through tendering procedures. 80% of employees are recruited through subcontractors. Is such a high percentage really necessary? We're all here trying to let Schiphol be the place where the state participation can run its business for a long time. Do you have to deactivate 80% through subcontractors? Isn't that crooked? So, what do these tenders look like? We also see that most of the people employed by these tenders work for the lowest wages at Schiphol. My group supports the air traffic control remuneration policy, but we cannot protect them and then leave the others to a free market of tenders going to the lowest pit, which means that the others have to work for low incomes with bad contracts there. Schiphol has a responsibility for that, too. We'd like to hear the Secretary of State's response. I come to the aviation activities, the third role: from the passenger and the employee to the airlines. Air carriers have to pay rent to Schiphol Airport to use the airport's services. The appeal of Dutch aviation, the job system, logistics, customer friendliness; these are all factors that are essential for a good service. During a number of working visits to Schiphol, we have often heard that there was criticism of the functioning of the Dutch Food and Waring Authority (NVWA). It wasn't meant to be unkind, but one of the examples we heard there about the operation of Schiphol was that the NVWA would only work during office hours and that freighters who arrive with cargoes after closing office time could only be helped the next day. Can the Secretary of State explain this? Is this true? Should the operation remain this way or has there been too much cuts in staff at the NVWA so that one can't handle it? In short, how can we respond better to users of the airport who transport their cargo via that line? Airlines, of course, have to deal with the behaviour of a monopolist who finds it very pleasant to pass on costs to its users. My colleague Mr Van Helvert has already referred to an amendment that we have tabled; thank you for that. Speaking time does not now play during legal proceedings, but at least I do not care in the explanatory statement. In the current proposal, the cabinet chooses that after six years Schiphol may recover any excess costs from users. We believe that this deadline is too short. You can talk about how long you want to go through that, but you have to do everything you can to prevent a monopolist from passing the costs on to its users too easily. That is why we have tabled an amendment to extend that period from six years to nine years. We are curious to hear the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u29	I can go a long way with Mr Monasch's speech, until it is said that the costs should not be passed on to the users, but obviously to the taxpayer. At the beginning of the speech it was made clear that 70% is state-owned. So a large part of that profit goes to the taxpayer. They may pay extra, but I can already tell you what the airlines are going to advise what they want with the tariffs: low, lower, lowest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u30	I need to be more specific. This concerns cases where, for example, a construction project at Schiphol Airport has been agreed to rely on a certain cost estimate. If this cost estimate is disappointing after six years, Schiphol can recover those costs from users. We find this very easy for a monopolist, especially for projects that run longer. For an error in the estimate you can then very quickly place the account with another. We believe that a monopolist, Schiphol, should be given maximum incentive to deal with this very carefully. We want to extend this deadline so that the costs of long-term projects cannot be recovered from others within six years. This is also very difficult for the management of the others, because it may mean that they will suddenly be billed again after six years. Listening to the different groups, BARIN, KLM and other airlines, we think that you should extend that deadline in order to suppress that behaviour as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u31	Again, it's a state company. We run it because it is important for the public interest. We just had a few parties who at first thought differently about it and who now see it that way. The PvdA has always talked about a state-owned company. If there is an overrun in a project, it comes from the length or width. Or the users, the airlines, have to pay for it. Or those sandwiches are gonna be more expensive. Or those employees are being squeezed out. Or the taxpayer pays. If I understand correctly, I now hear the PvdA saying that it should be the taxpayer. Or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u32	I've had the wallet for this. Corporations are monopolists, to a large extent. What no one knew, because it was always going well, or what little discussion was about, is that the overhead of corporations were just their own figures one billion too high a year. That's what the tenants paid for. If you ensure that the tenants no longer have control in such a system, corporations can transfer costs to the users. After all, they can't go anywhere. The same principle works here. You will have to stimulate the provider, in this case a monopolist, to keep costs low. We add that if there is underutilisation, we also divide it. You need to extend that period to maximize that pressure on that one provider. Finally, I would like to say to Mrs Van Tongeren that we are going to do the project a little bit, that we are going to do the project and then we are going to dump the bill with the other. Even if you're a state-nv, you're gonna have to handle the users of, in this case, Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u33	Mrs. Van Tongeren, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u34	Very thoughtful, Mr. Chairman. Is Mr Monasch actually saying that Mr Dijsselbloem, who has the state stakes in his portfolio, is not doing his job well? After all, it ensures that this company acts properly, does not exploit its position and the like. Is the minister responsible for the state's participation not doing his job well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u35	I know from personal experience that the Minister of Finance has a small own farm somewhere in the valuations, but he doesn't run his own building business at Schiphol. That's in the hands of a board that runs the business there. One of its components is the procurement of construction projects. The exceedances of the costs of these construction projects should be controlled as far as possible. It is very easy for a monopolist to go into a calculation if he can pass the costs on to third parties. We must avoid this as much as possible. Schiphol also has a central position in non-aeronautical activities. It's up to you. Costs are kept low by spreading them over as many users as possible. We welcome the fact that non-users are also involved in this. The question, however, is: what does this mean for users? Cappuccino for customs costs €3.70, I can tell you from my own experience. What's that gonna mean for the cappuccino later, if we're gonna make that even higher? I think the prices are already quite high on the other hand. Fortunately we still have the Hema there, so there is still some competition and you can get a cheaper cup of coffee. But I am serious: I would like to know what that kind of thing would mean to the consumer. There is another activity, perhaps an aviation activity, which I would like to mention here. That is the role that Schiphol can play in further developing the hub function. We are dealing with an increasing number of point-to-point traffic, which consumers use to travel with another airline. For example, you come from London to Amsterdam with easyJet and there you take KLM, Lufthansa or whatever to travel through. There are airports operating that transfer. Think of Gatwick and Milan. They shall ensure that the hub function of the hub that is not only dependent on KLM, but also of other providers is strengthened by offering it as an airport itself, with transfer desks and so on. Does the Secretary of State see anything like that? Is this considered within the operation of Schiphol? I ask this not only because it can be an interesting earning model, but also because we are all in favour of keeping that hub function intact and perhaps extending it further. Finally, the neighbors. The residents also have to do with the offer of Schiphol. We cannot and must not think too lightly about this. The costs for air carriers can be expressed in money, often much less those of the local residents. Sleepless nights can't be expressed in money. Therefore, the PvdA agrees that Schiphol is more aware of its surroundings, invests in routes that hinder fewer people and are looking for a cleaner airport. However, there is a lot of criticism of this and that criticism is increasing. We are certainly going to talk about this in connection with the mainport agenda. We see that at the moment about 20 million goes to a living fund around Schiphol. Doesn't a figure like this, 20 million for a livelihood fund to reduce the burden of Schiphol for residents, a little stark against the huge profits that are being made and the dividend that is being paid annually? Can the Secretary of State say what other means of government are being used to counter this nuisance? 20 million are now being allocated to a livelihood fund, while 350 million per year is being made. That, too, calls for further consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u36	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the amendment of the Aviation Act. However, I started to doubt for a moment, because it seemed like this debate was also about how you go on holiday. Sometimes I just bring my own thermos can of coffee. However, I will not dwell on that. Some comments have been made which will be reflected in my speech. If that is the case, I will refer to it. There are a number of questions about the relationship between the proceeds of commercial activities and Schiphol's investment in aviation activities. That's what my colleagues were talking about. The bill provides for Schiphol to invest part of its revenues from commercial activities annually in aviation activities. However, there are criteria or conditions for this mandatory own contribution of Schiphol to the aviation activities. Can the Secretary of State clarify these conditions one more time? How much freedom does Schiphol now have to deviate from these agreements? Under what circumstances exactly is that possible? A more fundamental question in this context is to what extent this is so-called cross-pollination. How does this fit into the government's policy on participations? This has just been the subject of a small debate. What does this mean for the financial attractiveness of investors? Mr President, I now realise that I have skipped the first page of my speech, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u37	If that has any consequences for the logic of your story, I suggest you make that logic and just start at page one, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u38	Yeah, I'll use retrograde logic. The bill we are discussing today is the result of intensive consultation between Schiphol, airlines and the government. Indeed, a new balance seems to have been found. I think that's a win. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that I would like to put a number of critical questions to the Secretary of State. I would like to hear a further answer to these questions before I give my group definitive advice on this law. I come now to a question about the risk of cost overruns. Can the Secretary of State explain in what circumstances Schiphol could pose the risk to companies in the event of a cost overrun after six years? After all, it is about large investments. Does the Secretary of State expect this to be the case? If this were to happen on a regular basis, there might be a great deal of risk for companies. Does the Secretary of State agree with D66? What is her expectation at this point? The proposal for three-yearly rates instead of annual rates provides a significant relief for Schiphol Airport. Can the Secretary of State clarify exactly where the advantage lies for these airlines? Does this put an end to the fluctuations? In other words, does this give you some kind of peace? I also have a question about the AMvB which still has to be drawn up. That is what Mr Elias was talking about. The fact that the AMvB has yet to be drawn up is very important. After all, there might soon be things in it that completely disrupt the balance that appears to have been found in the legislative proposal. In other words, this bill has a lot of loose ends to fill in. That makes it difficult for the Chamber to make an assessment of this change of law. How does the Secretary of State feel about this? How is she going to ensure that balance? Wouldn't it have been wise to have the contours of the AMvB ready already? Then everyone would have known which way it would go. In conclusion, I would like to ask when this decision on the operation of Schiphol airport will come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u39	Mr. Chairman. I have already lost a few questions and points from my speech in my interruptions. I always like it a lot better when there is a real debate than when six people read a text in a row. That's why I thought, "I'm gonna throw 'em..." Look, this is what I'm gonna provoke Mr. Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u40	Does Mrs Van Tongeren agree with me that it is even more fun to have the debate if a contribution has been made in advance in the written preparation by all the political groups? GroenLinks shone in absentia when we were preparing this bill. I therefore find it a little easy for Mrs Van Tongeren to come here and do these things when she has not participated in the legislative preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u41	I have this discussion with the VVD group from time to time. There are 40 of them; there are four of us, so it is not possible to make a written contribution to all legislative proposals. We exchange it regularly. I am very sorry that the VVD Group regularly blames a small fraction of its size while the microphone is open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u42	"While the microphone is open," I'll tell you right in the middle of your face. I just think that's very weak! If you think it is so important and are going to tell me that we have not prepared things properly, I would say that the least you can do is just take part in the written preparation and not just use the House of Representatives as an electoral platform and at the last minute make a few points, but just take part in proper legislative preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u43	May I remind Mr Elias that he knows that he must speak through the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u44	I take this as a personal heart cry from Mr Elias, in which he expresses how he thinks it should go. I'd like to show you my agenda to show you how many things we do one day. That's a nice amount. The points I raised this evening are all substantive points, on which you can quietly debate from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u45	May I conclude that GroenLinks really likes to debate, that she sees interruptions to perhaps learn from others and that the intention is to see if you can possibly include insights from Mr Elias in your own speech? Can I see it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u46	That is exactly why I like to have a debate. I would like to see whether there are opportunities for tabling an amendment or a motion together on some issues or for building a bridge in the future. I find that more interesting than reading five separate texts. Hence, I would also like to say that I do not need my entire ten minutes of speaking time. After all, I have already made quite a few of my points. I saw the Secretary of State listening carefully to the whole debate, so I think those points have come across. In other words, we have had the same kind of policy on the railways. First, the government was put at a distance. Then the government went "bang" on top of it. Then there were problems and the government was put at a distance again. I would like to get a brief response from the Secretary of State, because this law seems very much to me to go into the depth and the details. Then you get the same problem of state control, almost on four lines, which you actually have on the track. From time to time, we're all very unhappy about that. Let's take a different approach. It seems that in the Netherlands there are three separate zones in which the economic and business interests are paramount and it is much more difficult for residents, employees and consumers, and weak values such as landscape, climate and environment. Mr Monasch also mentioned this. These three zones are: the gas extraction in Groningen, the port of Rotterdam and the airport Schiphol. If it gets a bit tight on one of these three areas and runs against physical or legal boundaries, there will be laws to widen that again. We see this bill as such, also because of what we read and what our colleague from the CDA had in his contribution. The 2011 evaluation says that the existing system and the current Aviation Act have worked well and that there is no abuse of a dominant position. Nor have I seen in the Court of Auditors' investigations that the shareholder is, of course, a low among them, but that is the Minister of Finance who has noted major problems in the State participation Schiphol. That is why we do not fully understand the intention of this law. I'm hoping to get a little more explanation on that. Then there is the question: what would be the outcome if airlines were to talk about tariffs they themselves would have to pay? This is not very difficult to guess: these airlines want lower fares. They are offered at other airports as well. You get a general race to the bottom. Eventually, the thermos and the coffees have to pay for it or the taxpayers. If my reasoning is correct, I'll ask the Secretary of State. How are we going to make sure that doesn't happen? The Council of State's opinion on this law is rather devastating. There has been a response from the cabinet in the documents, but like the Council of State, I still do not understand why network quality should be legally anchored as a public interest. Also in the European directive, the anchoring of a public interest means much more about climate, environment, spatial planning and living environment rather than protecting the network quality of its own national airport. We have a free movement of goods within Europe and the opportunities for companies to compete. How does this bill relate to the incredibly detailed regulation of Schiphol Airport? Is there another state participation with such detailed legislation at the level of running a business? Shouldn't you just move on to nationalization?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u47	Mrs Van Tongeren's definition of public interest included terms such as "environment," "sustainability" and "nature." Those are beautiful terms, but that list didn't show up for work and economics. Is that because Mrs Van Tongeren is from GroenLinks or because she doesn't think it's important? The word 'network quality' is precisely what work and economics mean. Through network quality you keep the power of Schiphol intact. Airports with excellent network quality survive because of their hub function. Airports without that quality cannot survive, which is at the expense of work and economy. So I notice that two crucial terms, work and economy, are not mentioned as public interest. Mrs Van Tongeren only mentions nature and the environment. That's beautiful, but there's more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u48	That's almost right. I have mentioned consumers and workers. If you see economic importance as something short-term, then you have to have aviation. However, in the longer term, to keep the economy in balance with the living environment, that economy needs to change. Aviation cannot grow permanently and at the same time remain within the limits of the climate. In order to ensure the economic importance of the Netherlands and employment in the Netherlands and other countries, consideration will therefore have to be given to how we can ensure that aviation will fit within the existing environmental and climate limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u49	I am therefore right to say that you did not forget it. You didn't mention conscious work and economics because you think it's less important. As far as you're concerned, the network quality can come out and the network quality of Schiphol can be reduced, because you don't like that kind of activity and want Schiphol to become a provincial airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u50	There are a number of assumptions that I disagree with. I did mention employees. However, we may not be able to describe 'economic interest' as the PvdA. We say that economic importance must be guaranteed not only for the present generation but also for future generations. This means that I do not associate network quality in the sense of a lot of transfer passengers exclusively with a good economy. I think a good economy anticipates the future. We know that the number of essential flights will have to decrease in order to achieve them. That is what we must prepare for. If we only want to lower tariffs and that Schiphol is growing permanently, all the other airports have the same short-term strategy, it will not succeed at some point, because then aviation will take up the entire CO-use space worldwide and other human activities will not take place. So perhaps we have a slightly different idea of what the general interest in the economy should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u51	I'll be brief. If, in your definition of the general interest, the terms 'work' and 'economics' do not exist, then we have a different view on the organisation of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u52	That is the third time that Mr Monasch has misunderstood me. We have a different view of the economy. My comment was about whether network quality is a general interest. We see that at a very different level than the Labour Party clearly does. We say that you must set up an economy in such a way that it is robust for the future. Any research that's from Stern's is one thing that shows that if you don't anticipate climate change, you're gonna harm the economy as much as possible. That is what we consider to be the general interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u53	I have a question for you to understand a little bit. GroenLinks is also still against domestic flights. Is Mrs Van Tongeren's party against flights to Brussels or Paris? Where's it gonna end? That might be useful to know, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u54	That is a very good and rightful question from Mr Elias. I have the answer to this later in my text, but I will give it now: yes, for example, I do not think a flight Rotterdam-Kos-Eelde-Rotterdam-Kos-Eelde is in the public interest. I would much prefer it to be Eelde-Kos-Eelde on Mondays and Rotterdam-Kos-Rotterdam on Tuesdays. The Dutch can still be extended on vacation. Countries and risings cause a lot of extra emissions, a lot of extra noise and particulate matter, causing people to die prematurely in those areas. This can be avoided by ensuring that these unnecessary domestic flights are not available. I am going to ask the Secretary of State if she would like to see how we can achieve a level playing field between aviation, covering all kinds of treaties and other benefits, and other forms of transport that are much cleaner, such as the clean bus and the train. We would like the ACM to look at whether there is no market distortion, including the measures contained in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u55	This means, in concrete terms, that Mrs Van Tongeren really wants to get on the bus to Rotterdam, but that must be up to me. That is why she wants to impose penalties. That kind of Soviet thinking is so far away from me. But I asked you a few more times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u56	I have not mentioned Soviet thinking and punishment at all, so I shall leave those words on Mr Elias' behalf. It is perhaps surprising every week that there are also great differences of opinion in the Netherlands and that we stand up for different interests. This is especially seen between the VVD and GroenLinks. At least, when the transfers were complete, the accounts of GroenLinks show that we score very well economically, in terms of the fight against congestion, in terms of employment and in terms of prosperity, albeit in a different way. GroenLinks attaches great importance to ensuring that it is not only good for the people now. We don't want to pass on climate debt. The VVD and GroenLinks rarely find each other there. Fortunately, we find each other on other subjects. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the Council of State, which, like GroenLinks, wonders why network quality is such an important public interest that it needs to be legally anchored. Why should the operation of the airport Schiphol be regulated in such detail? I also asked others: is there another state-owned company that is regulated in such detail through those four guidance lines? How does this bill relate to binding European law, the free movement of goods? The question is whether this is allowed. Does this proposal not actually limit the powers of the Consumer & Market Authority by giving it this specific role while, I think, it should, in particular, check whether there is no market distortion? However, it may well be that I do not have one of the many powers of the ACM on the retina. It will no longer surprise anyone that GroenLinks wants a balance in what is of general interest, looking on the one hand at sustainable economic growth and, on the other hand, looking mainly at residents and what was agreed in the energy agreement, and there the Secretary of State was very instrumental in Paris. I know that aviation has so far been successfully excluded, but this does not mean that aviation does not emit CO. It seems a little bit like Schiphol is going to be run as a cooperative of airline friends with us. One of the reasons why we held that share in Schiphol Airport is that we can allocate slots and we can provide slots at other airports for the KLM. We look at a number of airlines with less pleasure. They would not participate in the cooperative Schiphol, which also sets the rates, but other airlines we would like to see here. Am I completely wrong about that? How am I supposed to look at that? Surely some of them are intended to keep certain airlines out of the door as much as possible? I read that tariffs must be cost-oriented. Then I immediately wonder what costs we are taking into account. Are the health costs, climate costs and the costs of premature death also processed by fine dust in that cost-oriented? How much do we have to look at? Thanks to the interruption of Mr Elias, I have already been able to talk about a level playing field at shorter distances for other, much cleaner modes of transport which do not have the benefits that aviation does have and which are therefore more expensive, which often means that they lose the battle for consumers. What does the Secretary of State think if the ACM examines how differentiation of airport charges can contribute to the competitiveness of public transport? Does that help to make public transport more competitive compared to aviation? If you raise the rates, you get a more level playing field. I assume that's not the intention, but wouldn't that be very fair? Would the Secretary of State have the ACM take a look at that? I have already dealt with the four guidance lines and the comparability with rail. I now turn to the efficiency incentive. On a situation where there is a state-owned company, which ultimately has to decide for itself on investment, both the Council of State and the ACM both say that we need to think very carefully and thoroughly about this, because it may be a very serious matter to us, especially in terms of effectiveness and enforcement. I therefore wonder whether the Secretary of State has plans to evaluate this and how we should do it. After all, we have just heard from colleagues that there is a very long payback period. So you can't just change it when you find out that effectiveness and enforcement are an incredibly high administrative burden and therefore cost again. Ultimately, transparency and calculation of higher costs seem to be frustrated by this mechanism. It is clear that GroenLinks is not confident about this. The starting point of the Aviation Act that regulation should be contained in order to prevent abuse of power monopolies seems to be abandoned. It's very similar to "Schiphol forward." The cabinet brings Parliament as co-legislator into the position of co-entrepreneur. For example, I have to take the AMvB's on how to run Schiphol. The government is not and should not want to be a company. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it undermines the public interest to go into this very detail on the one hand and to refer to ICAO and Paris on the other: we do want to, but Europe is not yet able to get airlines to participate in the ETS. I believe that I have dealt with all the other issues in the debate on the interruptions. The position of GroenLinks is quite clear: we are not very happy with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u57	Mr. Chairman. For us, in all the years in which we take part in debates, the competitiveness of the mainport Schiphol is paramount. We have also ensured the necessary actions from the Chamber. Partly and sometimes, these actions have also been taken over by the government. I'm grateful to the government for that. However, I have to have a different debate on a very large part of what I want. In fact, I would prefer to see greater consideration given to the national and social importance of Schiphol and the capacity problems, and that these interests are taken into account in decision-making. We would like Schiphol to have 600,000 flight movements with its current runways. Instead of using one plus one runway, this can be done by switching to "two plus two," i.e. to simultaneous use of runways. We all think that this is much more important, because we have to realise that we are suffering a great deal from the enormous increase in competition from Turkey and the Gulf States. I shall now consider the amendment to the Aviation Act on operation. We don't have a lot of questions about that. I've got some. The Secretary of State may be able to clarify this. So now there's less action. The Secretary of State may not be used to that from me in a debate on aviation. However, we have taken a great deal of action to preserve the important hub function of Schiphol. In all the other debates, we have tabled a motion after a motion for a resolution. We want Schiphol to remain a global airport. And when I talk about Schiphol, I'm always talking about KLM. They are Siamese twins, both financially and socially. In any case, the legislative proposal we are talking about will contribute to a better balance between the airlines and Schiphol Airport. The new tariff system has become more efficient and transparent. The PVV tabled a motion on this issue years ago. We also asked at that time to make things more transparent. At the time, some of us managed to do so and some of us failed. It's gonna happen now. At the time, we also asked for non-aviation revenues to contribute to the "aviation" part. In order not to let Mr Elias leave his seat, I would also like to call it "non-aeronautical activities' or "aeronautical activities'. I have one more question. The law states that tariffs and conditions must be non-discriminatory, transparent and cost-oriented in accordance with competition law. How does Schiphol, I ask the Secretary of State, intend to lure certain companies with large discounts on tariffs to Lelystad, for example? Is that not contrary to this law or competition law? In my opinion, the PVV tabled a motion in 2016 asking the government to ensure that discounts related to active recruitment policies benefit companies already stationed at Schiphol Airport. I held that motion at the time, because the government asked for it. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? That's the question we still have. I come to the mandatory annual contribution. The extent of the contribution depends on "other circumstances and considerations relevant to the airport operator'. What are the circumstances here? We couldn't figure that out right away. The same applies to the recitals. And what, for example, would have been the contribution for this year? Of course, I am asking for an estimate, because it is not possible to say that in concrete terms. At least we want to know what its impact on tariffs is. I think I've already asked all my questions. I tend to advise my group to vote in favour of this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u58	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u59	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. If it's all right with you, I'll take you with me for a moment in the line I intend to answer. I have some, by the way, very clear, cubes. My first block is a brief introduction to the reason for the bill. I fully agree with Mrs Van Tongeren. In the second block, I will say something about the compulsory contribution and the reason why we formulated it in this way. In the third block, the theme is "efficiency stimulus." In the fourth block I talk about the ACM and the regulation. The fifth block is about equity policy. Then I will answer some remaining questions about the AMvB. Then follows the larger block "other," the sweeping block. Finally, on behalf of the cabinet, I would like to express an appreciation of the two amendments tabled. I am pleased that today we can continue to discuss the regulation of the operation of Schiphol Airport on the basis of the current legislative proposal. This bill concerns in particular the section of the Aviation Act which regulates the rates and conditions of use of the airport Schiphol Airport. The aim is to prevent abuse of the dominant position by Schiphol. I say to Mr Elias that it is nothing more than that. That's it. Mrs Van Tongeren asked why we should deal with this bill if it all goes so well. The mandatory evaluation showed that the current system has indeed worked well in itself, but it also showed that parts could be improved. We have proposed these improvements in this legislative proposal. On the basis of the evaluation, we have had careful consultations with the sector in order to arrive at a coherent package. With this package of measures a compromise has been found between the different interests and views on the tariff regulation of Schiphol. This means, therefore, that Mrs Belhaj is right to cast a shadow forward. It is indeed a fragile and balanced structure. If you change everything in the course of the legislative process, the balance sought between the various interests will be affected. It's possible. In the end, that is always a political consideration, but I am not just in favour of it. Members will understand that. The package of measures does not aim at any substantial policy change, as the establishment of tariffs and conditions remains simply a matter for the sector, with sector-specific supervision by the ACM. I come to the question of the role of the ACM and the costs. The regulation remains focused solely on aviation activities, and so I say to Mrs Van Tongeren that we do not regulate more than necessary. The package of measures improves existing regulation and better aligns it with new policy objectives and developments. What are the improvements going to do? Let me outline this. One: an increase in transparency. Two: a reduction in tariff fluctuations. They're getting more predictable. Three: strengthening the competitive position of Schiphol. I know that Mr Graus has a particular interest in this. Four: a reduction in the burden on the sector. I shall deal with the questions put by Members on each of the measures proposed. First of all, I come to something called into question by many parties, namely the mandatory contribution and the sentence contained in the proposal, namely that there may be other circumstances and considerations relevant to the airport operator which could lead to a derogation from the proposed mandatory contribution. Some spokesmen have said that this compulsory payment would become a paper tiger. I would very much like to fight that forcefully. We now have a voluntary contribution, which has generated an average of EUR 25 million in recent years, without legislation. It's good to have that in mind. Perhaps it is also appropriate to explain how this compulsory contribution will be determined. The amount of that compulsory contribution shall be determined prior to the three-yearly tariff period and shall be included in the tariff proposal. This proposal is then consulted with the airlines. Schiphol determines the expected average return on equity per year and the expected average return for the tariff period. In determining the expected average return on equity, the operator should also be able to take into account other circumstances relevant to the airport operator. This is always compared with the standard return established by the shareholder. That's 6.7%; I checked. Subsequently, it is up to the shareholders, including the State as a majority shareholder, to determine which part of the difference between the average expected return and the standard return will be used for the contribution. Schiphol then determines how the contribution is distributed over the years within the tariff period, in order to organise as stable a rate development as possible. This is reflected in the new decision still before the Chamber. I will say a few words about the AMvB, but I would like to inform you that it is of course being put forward. In the current situation, the contribution is voluntary and Schiphol itself decides whether money is being transferred to aviation activities and how much. We'll change that with this bill. This is an important improvement in the new law. Schiphol must now for the first time make it clear how much this contribution will be for the three-year tariff period. Nor can this contribution be adjusted in the interim, as it is part of the multiannual tariff fixing. This also makes it clear to everyone what standard return Schiphol should take into account, before the size of the contribution is determined by the shareholder. What you're actually doing is creating a predictable system, when it's voluntary now. As I have just explained, that does not give rise to wind eggs, but quite a bit. There is still consultation, so there can be discussion about it and it is for a period of three years. In other words, it really is not a paper tiger but a significant improvement, also for the position of the airlines, who obviously have a great interest in that contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u60	Thank you for the clear explanation. There are a lot of parties involved in this compulsory contribution; everyone can talk along. I hear the Secretary of State say that the shareholder ultimately determines its level, whether or not to say anything about it. Then why does that clause have to be in the bill, like some kind of escape for Schiphol? That escape is in that wide consultation and in the shareholder's ruling, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u61	On the contrary, I would not like to assume that there is a build-up of mistrust, as is apparent from the phrase to call it an escape in advance. I believe that the escape is still fully possible, because that contribution is voluntary. The bill makes this mandatory. It's actually a situation of comply or explain, in my terms. You'll do it unless there's reason not to. Then you'll have to explain and then you'll have to consult. Objections may still be lodged. Then we get a whole trial we don't know yet. I understand that there is always more to be desired from all sides. However, I have also pointed out the balance in the proposal. The beauty of unexpected circumstances is that you can't just point them out. There are situations in which you wouldn't do it. For example, you cannot change the rules during the ride. If anything has been established for those three years, it is. Before that, there's a whole process going on. That which can be taken into account is also included in the proposal. I personally find the weight that Mr Van Helvert now attaches to that sentence, namely that it is an escape, to be honest. It would then probably well be a mouse hole rather than an escape, because it is now being forced to do something that is already being done voluntarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u62	The Secretary of State is talking about constipated distrust. I think that does not do justice to the remark I made. It's about the equation between what it's like now and what it's like. We consider the new bill to be a new bill. I am glad to hear the Secretary of State say that we should not put too much weight on that one sentence, because if it is not such an important phrase, you could in principle remove it a little easier. I agree with the Secretary of State that we should do so, and that is what the CDA is doing, and you might as well say that we know that all parties are allowed to talk about the contribution and that we know that the shareholder can give another blow at the end. You might as well get rid of that phrase based on trust. What's the secretary's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u63	I disagree. That brings me almost to my assessment of Mr Van Helvert's amendment. He actually argues that the compulsory contribution is always at issue, regardless of the financial position of Schiphol. That's not what I want to go to. I believe that circumstances are conceivable, also given the position of all of us as taxpayers who are also behind the mainport, in which we may not have to do so. This legislative proposal is actually making an opposite move, namely, from now on, no formal regulation to firmer regulation of what we are going to do in this area in the years to come. I believe that the balance with the proposal now contained in the law has been fully achieved. That is why I do not agree with Mr Van Helvert's amendment, but I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u64	You're not bound by any particular order, Secretary of State. You have now made a detailed comment on the amendment, so you are free to judge it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u65	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u66	I already had that feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u67	Tell it like it is! Oh, no, say it like it is, I'll tell Mr. Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u68	Mr Elias likes that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u69	Here we know the firm Secretary of State again! Anyway, the mic still worked. Years ago, the microphone didn't work when Mr. Zalm was standing here. I'll go with the Secretary of State for 99%, but we're working on legislation. So it really needs to be very precise. I understand the Secretary of State's reasoning and I understand her wish. I understand what she's doing. She is laying down the law instead of allowing it to float freely or not, while the Secretary of State or the Department must always be among them. I agree with all of that. Despite this, the explanatory memorandum states that, in order to make it even more complicated, "other circumstances and considerations relevant to the airport operator' does not require that payment be made. My only point, knowing, by the way, that the answer of the Secretary of State is part of any future case law on this matter, is: do not give any excuse. There's my only concern. And if that's how you're gonna describe it, how are you gonna make sure you supervise it? I'm not saying this from the idea that we don't trust them or anything. However, I do not think that a sweeping clause should be as broad as I think I can interpret it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u70	Once again, it is not so broad that it is a kind of escape without argument, but that is perhaps suggested in this debate. I object to this, because the process as such already actually regulates that escape clause. The compulsory contribution is the starting point of the legislative proposal. So that's what it starts with. There will then be a system whereby it must be established. This system also regulates some of the rules of the game and reflects the position of the shareholder. If circumstances arise which cause problems for the continuity of the airport etc., a derogation may be made. That's what that sentence is meant to mean. To be honest, it seems to me also very good and important for the management and the general interest of society that this possibility exists. That's why I called it constipated distrust. Mr Elias rightly pointed out the way things were a few years ago. For example, Mr Van Helvert has asked me for beer. It is not going to be the latter, but it must be possible to maintain relations with each other in a different way. However, we do come from there and I feel that at the moment in the debate when people are wondering whether Schiphol will do what was promised earlier. We have now even included the voluntary contribution as an obligation in the legislative proposal. We cannot respond much more to the airlines than to what we are doing and recording now, including the consultation, the explanation of how it should be calculated and so on. I think that is really balanced. The question has been asked as to precisely the maximum duration of the efficiency incentive. This question also contains an amendment by Mr Monasch. In my opinion, Schiphol is sufficiently encouraged with a maximum of two tariff periods to keep the actual costs of large investments within the budget. The efficiency incentive for investment projects is intended to stimulate Schiphol to remain within the agreed budget. So it's not meant to be some kind of punishment towards Schiphol. This efficiency incentive is in addition to Schiphol's obligation to provide insight into the expected efficiency gains on operational costs in a tariff proposal. This obligation is maintained in the new decision, which is still before the Chamber. Here too, we have come a long way, because there is no efficiency incentive now. So the bill actually helps the airlines to escape, as it were, the payment when there is no efficiency. We are now discussing how long that period should be, but I would like to point out that we also have something in our hands with this legislative proposal that we do not have at the moment. I think that's a win in itself. The original idea was to apply that incentive for only one tariff period. I've made two periods of that. With the choice for a maximum duration of two tariff periods, we have found a middle ground in the conflicting positions, which, of course, were simply there without prejudice to the agreed package. If an efficiency incentive lasts too long, it may lead to additional administrative burdens and compliance costs for Schiphol. Mr Elias asked whether projects such as the new A-pier, the construction of the new civil airport at Lelystad and the construction of the polder runway would be faster and cheaper due to this scheme. It might be good if I started by explaining that this bill only applies to the airport of Schiphol Airport. This means that it does not apply to investments in other airports, such as Lelystad Airport. This incentive will help Schiphol to stay within the agreed budget in the case of large investments. If the cost of investments above 20 million is more than 5% higher, they are the responsibility of Schiphol. If the costs are lower, half the advantage is also for Schiphol. Mr Elias also asked whether this incentive would provide the opportunity for a "bookkeeping trick" he called it, I thought to shift the cost overruns to a later period as it were. It is not intended that any excesses will be paid by airlines in the future. This is also avoided by incorporating investments into the rates through the usual accounting rules. The ACM also supervises this. Schiphol is not supposed to play all kinds of tricks to get out of the stimulus. Besides, Schiphol also has itself with that. It now seems that if the airlines go wrong later, they will only have to pay for the costs, but that is not the case, of course. Schiphol itself suffers as well. One would actually bite oneself in the tail. Mr Monasch has asked what is being done to prevent Schiphol from overbudgeting. I announced in the explanatory statement that a draft decision would include a proposal for an investment project also to include a cost-technical review by an independent expert. We'll have that looked at to get it clear and sharp. Mrs Van Tongeren asked if we would evaluate the efficiency incentive. We will. We always look at the effect. We usually do that after about five years. In this case, we have said: we are just going to do that. I think I have answered all the questions of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u71	I ask this question in response to Mr Monasch's questions about those six years or nine years. The Secretary of State states that it is a kind of negotiation result and that opinions were different. I am looking for a slightly more substantive argument. The question is why the Secretary of State considers these six years reasonable, apart from the fact that people had different views and that this was the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u72	I'm afraid I can't add much more. Eventually it remains arbitrary, but it also has something to do with maintaining the position of the mainport itself and the risks that you otherwise take for a part there. From the state's point of view, of course, we always have to make an assessment in favour of taxpayers in the broad sense, as Mrs Van Tongeren rightly pointed out when she was equally on fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u73	On the one hand, it is a very pleasant answer, because it is very fair. On the other hand, however, I would find it very fair to hear a little more about it. It could be about risk calculations made by Schiphol. I am therefore looking for a more substantive answer, but as far as I am concerned this may also be written later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u74	I'd like to avoid that. I also like to look at my own efficiency. If the efficiency incentive lasts too long, it will create additional administrative burdens and compliance costs for Schiphol. Then the center of gravity is put back there. All things considered, we are an important supporter of keeping it as it is. Mrs Belhaj quite rightly pointed out in her speech that there was a real search for balance. We really polded about this. We must maintain the present proposal in that balance. That would do the most justice to the support we have achieved at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u75	I shall return to the six years of Mr Monasch of the Labour Party in conjunction with the defence of the Secretary of State that this one sentence should stand. It concerns the combination of two amendments, which are secretly a little bit about the same thing. First of all, the escape that we should not call an escape. The law says that the continuity of the company must be at risk and the financing of investments by the airport operator. If the continuity of the company were to be compromised, this would be reflected in the joint consultation. Everyone can talk about the level of the contributions. The shareholder is also allowed to slap it. If the continuity of the company is in danger, the contribution has therefore long been tripped. If the financing of the operator's investments is at risk, then there is already the escape that after six years everyone has to pay for it. So that's secured, too. Both cases that should justify the escape that should not be an escape have already been secured in a different way. So it's double-up. If Mr Monasch's amendment is accepted, you will remove one of the two. If my amendment is adopted, it will. But if both amendments are adopted, Schiphol has some sort of double Dutch insurance. Then it's secured from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u76	No, that's not right. If the standard yield is achieved, there is always a compulsory contribution. Period. Mr Van Helvert is therefore wrong. I am perfectly capable of defending why both amendments should not make it. And I hope I can convince Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u77	We are talking here about legislation and not about motions or insights. When it comes to legislation, it is good to see exactly why certain sentences are in the law. In fact, the Secretary of State's defence is: leave the sentence aside, because it is a compromise and it is already a lot better than last time and we need to trust each other a little bit. That's all true, but a sentence that could be an escape, but it's not, we shouldn't answer. There's another hole in the Secretary of State's defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u78	Mr Van Helvert is now being victimized by the fact that he is messing with these two amendments, because the point he is referring to is his amendment, which is about the compulsory contribution, which I say came not from a compromise between the sector and the airlines, but from a social point of view. We consider this to be important from the point of view of shareholdership. If you remove that phrase, Mr Van Helvert, you will actually say: no matter what happens, there must always be a compulsory contribution. I do not think that is right, given the interests that may exist. If the standard yield is achieved, then there is that contribution. He's not in question. That's why I said it's a mouse hole and not an escape. That's gotta be clear. That is why it is not a double insurance policy for Schiphol Airport, but it is much more about what we are doing when the standard efficiency is not achieved and there may be a problem and others still think that there is a need to pay. Then you still have a mouse hole in the law somewhere, namely that you can say: can we take a look at the continuity of the company? It may seem crazy to me, but I actually think Mr Van Helvert should agree with me in the end that this is important and that it is also justified to include it in the law. That was Mr Van Helvert's amendment. Let me now turn to Mr Monasch's amendment. It is true that I said: yes, that also has to do with a balance of interests. We initially had the bill saying that we only introduce that efficiency incentive for one tariff period. We have nothing now; we have now set zero efficiency incentives in the law. So we went to one. We have actually already gone to two, because we have changed the bill and Mr Monasch, as it were, puts a shovel on top of it and says: let's go to three. I have just stated in detail that I would not propose that. That is because it is indeed bringing the centre of gravity more towards Schiphol, which also has effects on administrative burdens and compliance costs, and because it is indeed a compromise that has been reached at that table. Well, then I think it's part of my position that I'm defending that. That is what I am doing here, and I am afraid that my judgment has been dissuaded from Mr Monasch on his amendment as he puts it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u79	There are two things at stake here. We must always stand at the centre, whether we are in front of taxpayers or an entrepreneur, on the side of the weakest party. In this case, those are the parties opposed to a monopolist. Especially when passing on costs, you have to make sure that that monopolist can easily transfer the bill. That it gets better, fine, but if you ask me for my honest opinion, I would have preferred to have been here for 12 years, so I would have liked to propose four periods, because this is large projects that are long-term. You have to cover yourself, because I've seen it on other files too: if you don't, you'll really get the bill presented and in this case the monopolist the sooner. That's why I'm saying two things. Firstly, on principle, we are on the side of the weakest, and secondly, we are on the side of long-term projects, we are on the side of expensive projects, and that means keeping pressure on them. I have already come across the Secretary of State in that sense, even though we have not negotiated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u80	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u81	I actually think 12 years is much more sensible, but it's new. In large construction projects you talk about a duration of about a third of the economic life of a building. Then you're about a third by nine years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u82	And your question to the Secretary of State is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u83	That is why I ask the Secretary of State whether these two matters, the role of the monopolist and the fact that they are long-term projects, are not decisive in prolonging that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u84	No, but they are decisive for introducing that efficiency incentive. In principle, I fully agree with Mr Monasch. That is why I fully support this efficiency incentive in the legislative proposal. What I do not agree with Mr Monasch on is the measure. That's a difference of opinion, and I think we've just established that that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u85	Fortunately, it is all allowed in the house of democracy. Let us continue to honour and respect this, especially in these days. However, this is not about buying a supply of oranges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u86	No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u87	These are large construction projects that have long-term effects; hence my plea. We may not get together, but that is the underlying idea behind my plea. It is good that it is introduced, but look very carefully at what is being built. That justifies a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u88	Yes, but once again, it is also a burden for Schiphol itself if one does not act efficiently as it were. In fact, the idea that the bill would over time fall exclusively to the airlines is not correct. It is normal for a healthy company to have its own business in order, but that is even more important here. We are creating an additional incentive, which means that it will be settled for the first few years anyway that the airlines will not be entrusted with it. We have already moved on in that. Mr Monasch says that this may have to last much longer, but I would not think that would be wise. Once again, Schiphol must be efficient for itself, for taxpayers and for all of us. In addition, we are introducing a new incentive, with which we offer the airlines a piece of protection. I have already moved from one tariff period, my original intention, to two tariff periods. In doing so, we have struck a balance in all these interests. That is why I have reached this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u89	In doing so, the Secretary of State has provided an opinion on both amendments: it advises them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u90	The Secretary of State's speech was clear: this will spare the airlines for six years. I also implicitly understood that she did not go along with my reasoning that the taxpayer would not be spared, because the Secretary of State thinks it is in balance. If the Secretary of State is not going to work that out in one of the other blocks, she may now be able to answer my question. The airlines have a negotiating position and may decide to go to this airport or another. Schiphol has an interest in ensuring that good airlines arrive at its airport. The government intervenes now, reducing returns from Schiphol. That means less revenue in the state treasury. Why does the Secretary of State find it justified that these costs are for taxpayers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u91	In the end, this also has to do with the overall picture: the mainport policy that we are now pursuing. I will go into that in a moment when I say something about network quality. It is important for our economy and the number of jobs that we organise it so that the airport has a perspective and remains attractive to airlines. That is also a political consideration. I come now to the ACM and the regulation. Several Members have asked how much budget is needed for supervision and who is going to pay for it. The ACM has indicated that the supervisory tasks resulting from the legislative proposal amount to €50,000 additional annually. The sector pays for this. The responsibility shall take place in the annual report of the ACM. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether the bill restricts or extends the role of the ACM. What's the deal with that, exactly? The ACM supervises in three ways: firstly through the approval of the allocation system, in addition through the supervision of decisions on applications from users and finally through the so-called "ambitious supervision'. These three ways of monitoring remain unchanged with this legislative proposal. The last two forms are slightly expanded. Indeed, the ACM receives a process test for the reporting obligation on network quality and receives the system of efficiency incentives for investment projects. This system of efficiency incentives will therefore also be followed. That is also an important argument. Moreover, the role of the ACM is not limited by the legislative proposal. Then I come to Mr Monasch's two sandwiches, which are a little less flat: what do we do with the high costs behind customs? I think he means the shops behind customs. Those are commercial activities. They are not regulated. This is the subject of regular competition law. The ACM monitors compliance with the competition rules. I haven't understood that there are any complaints. Yes, with you, but you'll have to formalize that outside of parliament, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u92	This is a little too easy. Eventually, that property is being operated, rented out by the NV Schiphol, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u93	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u94	Apparently such exorbitant prices are being charged to the entrepreneurs there that they have to pass on those costs. Or those entrepreneurs are taking advantage of their position, but I'm going to start with the first thing, which is that they have to try to recover those costs. You can't go anywhere as a customer. I wonder if it's neat that a nv Schiphol, again that monopolist, causes this kind of price drive, especially on fairly basic things. I'm talking about catering, not expensive suits. Travelers want a drink or something to eat. Then you stand there with your family on your way to Spain and you already have the first €50 on your pants. For what? For four Fanta, or two Fanta and two Coke, and a few muffins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u95	Yeah, but that's not what the bill's about. The point is that you can also use the part that is non-aeronautical activity to meet the same passenger again. When I said Mrs. Van Tongeren was on fire, she did have a bit of a point. Either that taxpayer makes those rates fall, or the traveller himself. It's choosing or sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u96	The aim of a government-NV is not to allow the consumer to be a milk cow, to make 350 million profits. Now go on fire. That's not what that nv was built for. I simply wonder how it is possible to demand such usury prices for simple products. If the Secretary of State says that the ACM should monitor this, I ask her how the ACM does so. I also seriously ask her how the policy of a government-NV can lead to this kind of price drive for simple citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u97	Those are preconceptions that I cannot fully share in advance. Mr. Monasch says it's by renting, but that's what he thinks. The question is whether it is. Those are all open issues. At least there is a market and there are several sandwich shops behind customs. There could be a complaint; we have dealt with this very well in our country. I agree with him that at the end of the day we should always be in front of that consumer. That is what we are doing with this bill, by the way. It is up to the same consumer, for example, to call the ACM on such a point. It is not for the government to decide how expensive the cheese sandwich should be behind customs. I do not want to wrong Mr Monasch's point, but that would be the alternative if I were to answer his question now, namely that we should determine it. I don't think that's wise. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u98	Mr Monasch, I understand that you have something to say about these sandwiches, but you still have a second term. In this legislative debate, I give you the space, but we are not going to do it in four deadlines. I ask the Secretary of State to pursue her argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u99	Mrs Van Tongeren says that the proposal contains many details and asks if there is a comparison with other State participations. I do not agree with her that this bill would regulate too much in detail. Ex ante sector-specific regulation involves rules of play to ensure that airlines are protected from abuse of Schiphol's dominant position, without any specific agreements. Then we come back to how costs and revenues should be determined and what the reporting should be. We don't decide how high the costs may be, but how they come about. That doesn't go into the details. State participations differ widely. The way you regulate is always looked at for each state participation. With regard to Schiphol, of course, the ACM has said that it considers that regulation is necessary. Mrs Van Tongeren has challenged me to mention other sectors that are as detailed or as detailed as Schiphol. One example of this is the network companies in the gas and electricity sectors. Heathrow Airport also seems to be regulated much more far-reaching. I hope I get this fraternity from her present. Mrs van Tongeren has also pointed out a level playing field between transport sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u100	Mrs Van Tongeren, I would ask you to allow the Secretary of State to finish her sentence. I think she's gonna tell you a lot of things that are interesting to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u101	I hope so. It can also lead to a bed of disappointments. Equal conditions of competition are, of course, important within the sector and, where possible, between transport sectors. However, it remains difficult, because each sector of course has its own characteristics. In aviation, for example, one pays one's own infrastructure entirely, but one does not pay excise duty because of international and global conventions. It is therefore necessary to make real efforts to achieve a complete one-to-one comparison of these sectors. In that sense, I do not see any role for the ACM. Of course, there are always debates on the subject of modal shift, but they are then political. That is not a question for the ACM. The issue is whether you want to come up with proposals or not. I want to make it clear that this is not the way it is. I'll come back later on to the norming around sound and what you do in the differentiation of rates. That's in the infamous block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u102	Of course, I'm always fond of a challenge. We're not dealing with Heathrow, so I'm gonna put that out of order. Electricity companies are not state participations. I was particularly concerned, therefore, that there are four ways, by the Minister of Finance, by the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, by the licence holders and now by the additional powers in this bill. However, outside this debate, we may also be able to see if we can bid against each other, but I couldn't help but get back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u103	I would like to mention TenneT and the Gasunie. But apart from that: yes, there are several ways to steer. That's right. Everyone, however, does so at their own point. I am standing here tonight partly on behalf of Minister Dijsselbloem talking about cheese sandwiches, to be honest. Of course, I do that as a service to the Chamber, because I can also give the answer. In fact, however, we each have our own role. The role of the shareholder is really different from that of the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, who looks at the matter from the aviation side. Sometimes these things intersect, that is also true, but on the basis of a coherent policy in terms of content. Mr Van Helvert has also suggested that the best practices in the regulation of Schiphol should be taken to other monopolies, such as those on the track. So we have to compare the best practices of the NV Schiphol with those of the e.g. ProRail. That sounds like a good idea in itself. However, it must also be difficult. I have just said to Mrs Van Tongeren that these sectors are really different. So you're dealing with really different circumstances. So it might also be very difficult to figure that out completely. Mr Elias asked a question about participation policy. He asked why it is argued that shareholdership is less appropriate to safeguard public interests, whereas normally shareholdership only comes into view if public interests are not adequately protected by legislation. He asked whether we are now working on a new approach to State participation policy. No, we're not. This is an existing approach to State participation policy. There is no change to that now. I admit immediately that government policy is aimed at securing public interests through laws and regulations. This also applies to Schiphol. I would like to mention the public interest in the environment, where he is, I say to Mrs Van Tongeren, the public interest in safety, health and land-use planning. These interests are secured through aviation regulations. The public interest of the airport's continuity as a mainport and the public interest of efficient market functioning and its effective supervision were also safeguarded under the Aviation Act. We lay down legal and regulatory framework conditions within which the aviation sector can carry out its business activities. The State's shareholding in Schiphol is used in practice as an additional guarantee instrument. As an independent instrument, shareholdership is less suitable for this, because the instruments of the shareholder also have their limitations. I'm coming to the AMvB. I have already promised the Chamber that it will be held. I aim to do that after the summer recess. Then the Chamber can look into whether it thinks that we are doing this carefully. The AMvB is an elaboration of the frameworks contained in this bill. I say to Mrs Belhaj that with regard to tariff regulation, the multi-annual system ensures greater predictability in business operations. That is in fact in the interests of the airlines as well as of Schiphol. Mr Elias asked a specific question about the set-offs. The possibility to set new tariffs and conditions in exceptional and unforeseen circumstances and the possibility to modify interim operational conditions provide flexibility for the operation of Schiphol at the time that that would really be the issue. I'll be on the "other" block. Mr Elias says that we run the risk that the Secretary of State will now be called upon earlier if something at Schiphol does not go well. I would just like to add that I have experience that the Chamber is perfectly capable of doing so without this law. Nevertheless, I say that the cabinet is indeed responsible for safeguarding public interests. For this reason, we have regulated in the law the frameworks for tariff regulation and the operating licence. I would also like to stress that the legislative proposal as such does not change my current role in relation to Schiphol. I understand that this is also important for Mr Elias. Schiphol itself is responsible for good business management. I am not going to play any part in establishing the rates either. So we are not taking part in the negotiations on this. I think it's important to say that. So I am not going to sit on Mr Nijhuis' chair. Mr Elias believes that the detailed rules are only to prevent abuse of power, and he asks if I agree with him. I agree with him. The elements of the history of this bill, and the reasons why we are filing it, have actually been mentioned in my introduction. Mr Van Helvert asked whether after the adoption of the shared vision we can now also see that the cold is out of the air between KLM and Schiphol. Indeed, the shared vision committee was set up following disagreements about, among other things, investments and effects on airport charges, but also on selectivity policy. On this subject, the Chamber can discuss with me in the context of the Agenda for Action, to which Mr Graus referred. The committee's report has made these points and responsibilities more clear. That has been intensively worked on. I think we have reached a stage where we are all simply working again in good harmony, but the interests will not always run in parallel in all cases. That's what you need to establish. That's the fact that there are problems, but then you have to deal with them maturely. Because of my sober nature, I think that can always lead to good results. Mr Monasch asked whether there is a stark contrast between what is being done for residents, and that was one of the important categories for which he wants to work with the 20 million in the living fund on the one hand and, as he said, the huge dividend for Schiphol's profits on the other. Fortunately, much more is being done for residents. Since 2008, two times 30 million have been spent on the Life Fund. The 20 million is the Schiphol contribution. In addition, there is an isolation programme, which has been spent hundreds of millions in three phases since the 1980s. There is also the damage for disadvantage compensation. Investment is being made in a wide range of anti-inhibiting measures. Legislation for the noise system, for example, should be envisaged, as well as route diversion. Mr Monasch also spoke about this. Every time they do that, they do it again and again. That remains difficult, because I see the proposals now. Then you see that in the end there are much less obstacles, but sometimes there are obstacles in places that weren't there before. They have the idea: "Hey, wait a minute. What's going on here? I wasn't an obstacle at first. Now it's me." This always leads to a lot of social debate. That will undoubtedly come again, but the balance is ultimately to reduce the number of obstacles. That's what we're here for. Mr Monasch also spoke about the good employership of Schiphol. As I said, I sometimes find myself in a debate that would be a little more for the shareholder. Schiphol is indeed an important employer in the economy. That is what Mr Monasch himself stressed. Many people work with great pleasure and pride at Schiphol Airport. Cao's money and, yes, there's always discussion about that. We have seen this recently in the discussion on security. It is really up to Schiphol, the entrepreneur, on the one hand and the unions, the employees, on the other hand to make good agreements on this within the legal framework. Mr Monasch also spoke about the NVWA and how we can respond more to the wishes of shippers, for example. The cabinet's commitment is to ensure greater flexibility, efficiency, coordination and cooperation between inspections. Indeed, we must also consider how the NVWA inspection can even better match the market's wishes. That's under investigation right now. It looks both at the efficiency and the wishes there are, and at the rates. I know this organization well from my previous position. That's why I can say that's not easy. After all, there is a great deal of pressure on the organisation from all kinds of sectors. There's a lot to be done. So we see that wish. We want to meet this as much as possible, but at the same time the business community says: we do not want the fees for NVWA to go up. The NVWA will then be asked to settle this within its own very limited budget, in which there will always be a gap at the end of the year. That is a complicated practice, but we are working on it. The investigation is sent to the Chamber by the State Secretary of EZ. If it's okay, that's gonna happen before the summer. Then the Chamber will undoubtedly come back to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u104	Can I understand that this issue will also be dealt with specifically in relation to Schiphol in this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u105	Yes, because it is about Schiphol and the work of the NVWA. I also believe that the port of Rotterdam is part of this. It is therefore about the mainports and the way in which imports and exports in particular are regulated. That was part of the investigation. Then I come to the question of whether Schiphol can offer the hub function itself. As far as we have been able to verify, there are airports on a small scale experimenting with them, but they usually do not have a large hub carrier of their own. That might be a relevant difference. Schiphol can of course do that, but I think that is up to the sector itself. Why have we legally anchored network quality? We believe that it is precisely as a public interest in the law, in the broader policy framework on state participations. It states that the public interests of state participations must be protected primarily by law and regulation. That's what the bill contributes to. It is expected that an analysis of the impacts of tariffs on network quality and reporting under the operating licence will also increase transparency among stakeholders. Is legal anchoring of network quality contrary to European rules on the free movement of services? No. The legislative proposal does not provide a basis for introducing discriminatory or other measures that impede the free movement of services. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked what costs we include in the concept of cost orientation. Only activities for the use of the airport may be included in the rates. These are operational costs, depreciation costs and capital costs. To this end, Schiphol shall establish a cost accounting system approved by the ACM. Then I come to the last question in this last block. I thought Mr Monasch was just saying that he needed to stay awake for a while. I hope I don't talk him to sleep. That's not my intention. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether airport charges could be adjusted so that they could be differentiated on the basis of the environment? At landing and take-off rates Schiphol makes a distinction in weight and noise. So the heavier the plane, the higher the rate. That goes for sound, too. We know from experience that this often also says something about the emissions that this entails. I would add that Schiphol is the first airport in the world to have received the highest CO-neutral status from the dome of international airports. That's a 3+. They have a comprehensive programme aimed at reducing CO emissions and use allowances to compensate emissions. In Paris, as I said earlier, the dance seemed to be getting away, but the international airport must believe in it. Recently, we have seen that the CO standard has been agreed within ICAO. This is a standard that aircraft have to comply with in terms of CO emissions. We are also in the process of setting up an ETS-like system that will be discussed in Montreal in September. The Netherlands, as President of the EU, is also very committed to achieving this. So it's really not up to us. We are also doing everything we can to promote biokerosin, which is also mentioned in the Agenda for Action, which Mr Graus and I would very much like to discuss further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u106	The Secretary of State knows that I appreciate her efforts towards Paris, climate and COenorm. The question was more like the next one. Schiphol originally made much more efforts, including through cooperation in the Fyra, to find out whether transfer passengers are also easy to get on the train and whether the hub function can be shaped in this way. In today's policy, that seems to have gone completely out. That is one of the reasons why I asked today. I know this point belongs in the aviation vision, but if you regulate this part of business in such detail, you could also use this moment to regulate something around the environment and climate. In particular, Mr Elias already asked me about the very short flights for KLM. Could such traffic not also take place through good, decently regulated high-speed transport? Schiphol is making a retreating move in this area, whereas years ago there was much more ambition on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u107	I do not know whether what Mrs Van Tongeren is calling for is entirely justified. In the Agenda for Action, one of the most important investments is the improvement of Schiphol Plaza, the station. This means that from both Schiphol and the State and the region we have established that the supply of passengers by rail is very important. Those aren't just domestic passengers. This means that we are indeed thinking together about how we will ensure that the flow of trains remains well organised. Mrs Van Tongeren is right that we did not choose to include that in this bill again. I have just explained in detail how broad both Schiphol and the government invest in the environmental part. This is also included in the Agenda for Action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u108	I appreciate the good intentions and the steps forward that the Secretary of State has taken. But still there is not really a level playing field when you can choose as a transfer passenger to fly two, three tens more to Brussels, Cologne or Berlin and the alternative is to drag your suitcases, check in on the train with your own suitcase and pay €200. I try to see at every opportunity whether we can replace unnecessary air traffic with rail traffic. That is why I raised it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u109	I understand. From Mrs Van Tongeren's position, that is logical and to be appreciated. However, we do not choose to intervene in this way. We make public transport as attractive as possible. This means that when you get to the station, you have a very good flow towards the airport. There really has to be a lot of improvement in that. Those are not good intentions or intentions, but they are about hard money, about a lot of euros. That's where we invest with each other. This also indicates something, both from the airport and from the public authorities, about what we want to invest our money on. That's an important signal. Mr. Chairman. Since we are discussing legislation today, it is good to say one thing very precisely about the efficiency incentive. I didn't really explain it anywhere. The incentive is to pay too much by the airlines. I seemed to suggest they didn't pay anything at first, but they didn't. The incentive is about what they potentially overpay. I have to correct this point, otherwise I will be too quick, which is not good for the explanation provided by the legislative proposal. The amendment does have the same judgment; I cannot help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u110	That was obvious. Moreover, you do not need an incentive for efficiency, because you have answered all the questions extremely efficiently. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. It appears to me that there is a need for a short second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u111	Mr. Chairman. I went into the debate positively, as I indicated. The answers of the Secretary of State have only strengthened me in the positive opinion I will give my group on this bill. The Secretary of State actually said "so paraphrase her" that this is a fragile structure that we shouldn't muck about anymore. It has not recommended two amendments. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how she looks at it if Mr Monasch's amendment were to be adopted. I have the impression that that is very undesirable, but I would like to hear it from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has promised that there will be a veil for the General Measure of Governance, for which thanks. It explained, also in an interrupting debate, that that one litigious phrase about the circumstances and considerations relevant to the airport, which could be hung up on all sorts of things, is not a departure for the future. Since what the Secretary of State points out as well as what is being discussed here in the course of an interrupting debate are also important for possible court rulings, I think that is important. In short, the Secretary of State has also pointed out that the Authority Consumer & Market is making sure that no accounting tricks can be pulled. At that point I also summarize it a little bit by the bend, but I'm sure everyone will not mind with regard to the clock. The existing approach to State participation policy is maintained and only an additional safeguard instrument is envisaged. That also reassures me. Nor does the bill alter the role of the Secretary of State. It will certainly not interfere with the rates and will not sit on the entrepreneur's seat. In short, these were clear statements, which makes us positive about the legislative proposal. Furthermore, it is always profitable that on such an evening it turns out that GroenLinks vacationers want to chase off the plane and don't give a shit about employment. It's always good to establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u112	Firstly, I am very sorry that what I have said is summarised in this way. I haven't said at any time that I don't give a shit about that. It would be nice if Mr Elias could acknowledge that we simply have a different picture of current and future employment. Mr Elias simply wants that employment to be fossil-based. GroenLinks has a much more sustainable economy in mind. There's a difference and there's tension in that. This is particularly evident in areas such as gas extraction, the port of Rotterdam and Schiphol. If we recognize that from each other, then we don't have to call each other names in person. Then perhaps we can talk about how we appreciate the differences in the legislative proposals and so on. I'd like that. I do not often encounter Mr Elias in the debate, but often it ends up in 'GroenLinks does not provide written input', 'GroenLinks was not present at debates' and 'GreenLinks does not care about anything'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u113	I'm looking at Mr. Elias. He doesn't need to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u114	Yes, I'd like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u115	Oh, then you must respond quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u116	If I haven't spoken with enough nuance, Van Tongeren will know what that feels like the other way around. After all, I have been able to experience this many times. I would like to choose other words, but I simply note that, in the interrupting debate with Mr Monasch, she indicated that at least she did not put employment first when considering it. That is, by the way, her right, as it is my right to establish, and to establish, by means of measures, that she wants to force people to behave in a particular way. That disgusts me, and that's what I'm saying out loud. Not a word of Spanish, but it's certainly not a personal attack. I didn't scream or anything like Mrs Van Tongeren's putting me on the spot. That is totally out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u117	It seems fine to me, Mr Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u118	It's just a critical treatment. It's called "debat."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u119	Mr. Chairman. With respect for everything that Schiphol has done, we were here looking at how we can ensure that Schiphol can become even more competitive with many destinations and cheap tickets in the future. There's a lot of love for Schiphol here, but that shouldn't stop us from looking very critical, as parents can sometimes show harshness out of love for their children. By the way, I don't want to be the father of Schiphol. Aristotle used to say: the upbringing has bitter roots, but the fruits are sweet. That is why I would like to take a moment with the Chamber, and certainly with the Secretary of State, to look at this compulsory contribution. This bill regulates a compulsory contribution. The Secretary of State uses the argument that progress has been made as a defence. There's progress, but if we're gonna do it, we're gonna have to do it right. What remains is that airlines remain dependent on the airport's discretion. A number of thresholds have been set for the introduction of this contribution. One: the standard efficiency must be achieved. How high does that have to be to get benefits? Two: the continuity of the enterprise must not be compromised. When is the continuity of a company at risk? Three: investment must be financially viable. What rating would that have? If you say you've done it in good consultation, it shouldn't put you in as an escape procedure, which it isn't. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State again what the difference is between an escape procedure and a mouse course. What might also be very nice to take a look at, is this. All three things have been secured in the joint consultation, because everything has to be done in common agreement. Eventually, the shareholder may slap it. I would prefer the airlines to depend on the discretion of, for example, joint consultations or the shareholder, not on Schiphol itself. We are not just talking about Schiphol, because these airlines must of course do something, as I have already said. If this freedom is to be achieved, the airline, the airline, must show that its own contribution will benefit the cost of the ticket. After all, we are talking about competitiveness. I had tabled an amendment. I am prepared to consider whether, in the wording of the amendment, I can make some improvements in order to remove pain. But it doesn't move. Apart from that amendment, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current voluntary financial contribution from Schiphol from non-aeronautical activities to aviation activities is being transformed into a compulsory financial contribution;]] [[calls on the Government, if Schiphol's compulsory own contribution to the direct aviation activities is applied, to ensure that airlines use the cost reduction to reduce the ticket price,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34197-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u120	The last five seconds I have received from you, Mr President, I would like to use just a moment to ask for the opinion of the Secretary of State on European rules. Why is it necessary to have a Dutch headline on European rules? The Council of State has also criticised this. The government rejects it by saying: it doesn't matter, because there is a burden for new implementation. But what's that? Can the Secretary of State give an example of this? Is this law even Europeproof? We must not suddenly get a slap on the wrist from Europe when we have this beautiful law, which we will agree to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u121	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and her support for the reply. The Secretary of State has rightly said a number of times that some issues affect state participation policies. If the Treasury officials have listened in, they can expect a number of topics back. I refer, among other things, to good employership. Again: if you run a company that we all hope will continue for many years, then you have to ensure good employership. It is very doubtful whether this is the case if 80% of your staff are recruited through subcontractors and job tenders are made at the lowest price. So that'll come back. I didn't really want to bring up the amendment again, but the Secretary of State added something important when she clarified it. Since there are a number of parties who have not been involved in this debate for so long, I am counting on Mr Elias................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So if you're running a tent, that company can get an account after six years because of exceedances that have caused another. I ask that that deadline be extended so that you can adjust and prevent that overrun. If there is under-exhaustment, it can be divided among itself. My plea in the amendment is to limit the behaviour of the monopolist as much as possible. I also appeal to my coalition partner. If they can move the accounts after six years, this is a plea to ensure that the companies that otherwise receive the bill after six years still have the opportunity to consider in that last period whether they can rewrite costs. That is the intention and purpose of this point. Finally. A lot has also been said about the question of public interest. Of course, we have to look at employment in the future, but current employment is important. We all know that much work for the low-skilled is in danger of disappearing. To anyone who brings in all public interests, I also say: look at work, look at the economy, look at the people who are pulling suitcases out of the airplanes tonight, because those are low-educated people. Look also at the people who are working in the hospitality industry in Amsterdam and who serve tourists who have arrived with planes. All these people have jobs and income. That money they can spend tomorrow on their children and on other nice things. Don't forget that group, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u122	Mr. Chairman. Most or actually almost all of the questions from D66 have been answered well. Finally, I can only say that D66 considers the balance between the public, private and the role of the consumer to be very important, even in discussions about, for example, the port. We do not believe in hanging all the way to one side, such as: the market solves everything, because it is a company and so we play no part in it, except once a year when we look at what kind of dividend we are allowed to receive. We also do not believe in hanging on to the other side, namely that we are constantly engaged from the public role in commissioning in a large company and actually sitting on the chair of the management. D66 is not very much in favour of this, as we also believe that you should rely on the strength of people, especially those at the top of a large company in this country. You can trust them to do the right thing. I also consider Mr Monasch's comments on the importance of employment to be relevant. I have GroenLinks very high up, especially when it comes to the green agenda and the importance of sustainability. But that you shouldn't let yourself be completely crazy and shouldn't be guided by people who say that money is the most important principle, I thought that's what I noticed a little farfetched. If you're having discussions about what's here right now, I think it's too extreme for you to say that only the train will be the solution. In fact, a lot of people make their own choices. It is a good thing that a consumer who is consciously in life can choose to fly and compensate for that. If you find that financially difficult, you can choose not to spend €50 at an airport, but to take the train on holiday. So also in all of this, consumers have the space and choice to influence things positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u123	Have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u124	No, but I saw someone standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u125	Then finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u126	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u127	We often find D66 on our side with green proposals. I'm always very happy about that. We often find D66 on our side when we want clean public transport as a truly workable alternative. If there are huge price differences between a train ticket and a plane ticket, it is not really fair to say: let people choose. Only a very limited group can say: I'll just take €200 off for the Thalys and I won't take that flight ticket for €40. I hope that we will continue to find D66 on our side in the future for this kind of green proposal, and that is what I am assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u128	When someone says that so charmingly and without obligation, I am always inclined to say yes to that absolutely. Again, I think it's a wrong comparison. We have found a good balance in this law. It doesn't help to say you don't think it's fair, because it doesn't make people travel by train. A discussion that is interesting is about what Mr Van Helvert has suggested, namely whether you are consistent in how far you go with your state participations. Unfortunately, I do not follow the discussions on the NS intensively, but you can do so within that debate. It has been noted that a good balance has been found. The remark that this does not make you green and encourages people not to travel by train, I find a little wrong. GroenLinks is an opponent of economics, where all proposals are guided by money, but it is also a bit odd that it seems that the enormous employment created by Schiphol does not interest Mrs Van Tongeren, so there would be 2,000 or 3,000 people on the streets. I know GroenLinks as a social party when it comes to employment. I don't hear Mrs Van Tongeren talking about that. The same question was asked here. In short, it is a complicated debate. Once again, I'm glad I'm a social-liberal. When it comes to discussions about the market, the consumer and the public task, the balance sheet needs to be reviewed every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u129	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Helvert said it most clearly. We must ensure that any higher costs are not charged in the tickets. That's my basic point. In comparison to airline tickets, clean alternatives are already so expensive, making it difficult for consumers to choose. If we are going to regulate very precisely, why do we do so to ensure that the airline tickets do not become more expensive, as Mr Van Helvert says? Shouldn't we do that with those clean alternatives? That's what GroenLinks stands for. Then there is the question of low-skilled employment. Worldwide, the largest growth of jobs for low-skilled people is in clean energy. In installing and maintaining solar panels and windmills there is an unlikely amount of employment. Very, horribly much more employment than in importing oil or refining it into kerosene. If we want more jobs in Europe, we need to invest in making our built environment more sustainable and efficient, because it offers huge amounts of low-skilled employment. In addition, we often find the PvdA on our side. In GroenLinks' credit transfers you can see that shift and that increase in employment in those domestic sectors. It is not a general green debate now, so I will leave it at that, otherwise I will take the President. The Secretary of State has indeed looked at all the questions in detail. I'm still a little worried about the bail. We want to reduce the cost of passing on the costs to the person who flies, but what about the guarantee for the taxpayer? The bill has to end up somewhere. GroenLinks continues to think that the general interest is still more to grow towards a sustainable and clean economy and that this is less understood only in the word "network quality." As the Secretary of State knows, we've got about five more years to get to 1.5 degrees. This cannot be achieved without a reduction in air traffic. A Chinese woman once said to me at a climate conference: we in China are going to do everything we can to shut down coal plants, to work more efficiently, to produce our steel more efficiently, but we are asking for one thing from Europe, namely not to let bottles of water go by plane in Europe. This has still not been achieved in Europe. That's the type of aviation I'd like to get out. Then the interference along four lines. The Secretary of State has clearly explained how she sees it. That's right; this happens to a different extent on the railroad. However, I predict that someday I may not be in this Chamber and colleagues will not be in the Chamber again at a time when it is said that far too much is being regulated by the State via the four guidance lines. Maybe the VVD will suggest that Schiphol should go to the market after all. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas alternatives are available for short flights, but consumers opt for flights more quickly due to low ticket prices;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate and propose fair conditions of competition between air transport and public transport mobility and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34197-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u130	I'd like to ask a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u131	I have just asked the Chamber if the motion is sufficiently supported. Maybe the members can respond to that. Then you can ask your question, Mr Elias. I have found that the motion is sufficiently supported. It is therefore part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u132	I wanted to ask a question to judge if I could support the motion. Isn't she out of order for this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u133	If the motion is supported, it is part of this debate and can simply be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u135	Thank you, Mrs Van Tongeren. Finally, Mr Graus has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u136	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clarity and clarity of the words. If only all the rulers had that gift, it would be a lot easier. I would also like to thank her for sharing the love for Schiphol and aviation and therefore for KLM. The most important thing for us, as I said in my first term, is that the law contributes to a better balance between the airlines and Schiphol, no matter how everyone thinks about it. At least that's an improvement. The new system of tariffs is much more efficient and transparent. For many years the PVV has also asked me to do so even by means of a motion to share the revenues of the non-aeronautical part with the aviation part. These are all things that I have been asking myself for years; hence I will advise my group to vote in favour of this change of law. I will also advise my group to vote against the amendments, but of course I will not decide on my own. I have one more question. It may have slipped my mind, because it's a little late in the evening. I once made a motion (31936, no. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I shall read out the request so that the Secretary of State knows again: 'calls on the Government to ensure that the discounts associated with active recruitment policies benefit the companies already stationed at Schiphol Airport'. I will also read out my observation, because I have time to do so: 'noting that the active recruitment by Schiphol of competing airlines can have a major impact on airlines, including KLM'. KLM is one of our largest private employers, whose protection is of national importance. I have also added the recital that recruitment policy is at odds with the hub function. The Secretary of State said last time, in 2015, that if airlines consider that they are being treated unfairly, they can file a complaint with the ACM, the Authority Consumer & Market. I didn't think that was enough at the time. I still held the motion at the time. I'm gonna hold off on what the Secretary of State says, but I might want the motion on part number one. 311 (31936) I'm considering that after I stopped the motion at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u137	Of course, you always have that right, but we are waiting for the Secretary of State's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u138	Of course, Mr President, but since I don't have a deadline anymore, I have to announce it now. I wish each and every one a blessed evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u139	That is quite correct, Mr Graus. This brings to an end the second term of office. I ask the Secretary of State if she can start her reply within a few moments. I see that this is the case. Does she have the motion by Mr Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u140	It's gonna be a while, but I'm sure I'm gonna have to deal with it somewhere. However, I think that is a difficult story; I say this intuitively to Mr Graus. But at the end of my speech, I will say something about that motion. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I come to Mr Elias' question. He has made a lot of commitments, and since we are dealing with a legislative proposal here, I think that is also very sensible. I once again agree with his presentation of my words; let that be clear. He asked me what would happen if the Monasch amendment to item No. 9 is adopted. I have tried to explain that I think that what we are doing here is a real improvement on the current situation. I have already moved on in the deadlines, and I believe that we have struck a very good balance with which the interests of all those who sit around the table have been represented, as Mrs Belhaj rightly said. I'd rather not lose that balance. That is why I did not recommend this amendment. I come to Mr Van Helvert's comments and questions. He has once again spoken about the efficiency of standards. I want to say here that this really is a crucial indicator. The standard rate of return is currently set by Finance at 6.7%. If the standard yield is achieved, this contribution is: period out! The discussion about that phrase is about the situation where that is not the case. In fact, if circumstances arise that do not achieve the standard yield, Mr Van Helvert's amendment effectively deprives the airport of the opportunity to make a different assessment, given the continuity of the business, and perhaps not to make such a compulsory contribution. In the end, the shareholder is the one who determines the amount. I'd say it's very well arranged in the law. I understand when airlines say that it doesn't really matter to them, because they always want a compulsory contribution, but from our position as shareholder and from the interest of the mainport as such that is really unwise. I think that this amendment should really be strongly discouraged, because that is not the way we should do it. Mr Van Helvert also asked whether we could regard the bill as a national sale. The establishment of tariffs is already regulated before the entry into force of the Airports Directive. We simply do this to prevent abuse of power by Schiphol. The improvements proposed with regard to the establishment of tariffs should also be considered in this context. To make a very long story short, this directive actually allows national Member States to take the policy space to reduce, for example, the burden on businesses. So that's what we're doing. That's within the rules. It is therefore 'compliant Europe'. That is the answer to Mr Van Helvert's key question. I come to the Van Helvert motion on part No. 10. Mr Van Helvert wants us to work to ensure that the airlines use the cost reduction to lower the ticket price. With this, I would actually sit on the entrepreneur's chair. It is ultimately up to the airlines to decide. There is a lot of competition anyway; that is well known. So there is already a huge pressure on the ticket prices, namely a pressure down. If there is a bonus for the airlines, it is not up to us to decide that they should only spend it on this. Unfortunately, therefore, I have to advise against this motion, although I certainly do not exclude the fact that there are enough airlines that will implement it. But they make that choice themselves. Mr Monasch has already announced that he will return to a number of issues. I'm guessing the Treasury is listening in. Mr Monasch mentioned employership. He has again explained his amendment. I will not discuss this with him again. I have just said something about it in reply to Mr Elias' question. I'd like to underline what he's saying. This is not in contrast to investing in, for example, clean energy forms that also create jobs. Schiphol, the mainport, is indeed an incredible source of employment, far beyond the region. It's also about valuable work. A lot of people can earn their living day in, day out of a very good sandwich. Then there is more to it than just cheese, I say to Mr Monasch. That's what it's about sometimes. We'll find each other at that point. I thank Mrs Belhaj for her support. I think that the approach she takes from the balance sheet is an approach that I myself would take. That is why I have tried to do justice to that in my reply. I would also like to thank Mrs Belhaj for her contribution. I will then come to Mrs Van Tongeren, who says that we must promote clean aviation. Certainly, we do so, but we do so through international agreements and, where possible, through national contributions. We have just heard the whole story about ICAO. We have the biokerosin. Mrs Van Tongeren wonders how we guarantee the taxpayer's interest. We do this through shareholdership. Mrs Van Tongeren says I shouldn't have too many roles, but she's asking me to take this role now. In the end, it has to be through shareholdership. It is logical that the aviation side of the story is regulated through another department. There are several roles and I think that will remain so. There is a glowing logic behind that. I honestly don't expect that to change in a few years. In the motion in part No. 11 asks Mrs Van Tongeren for research. Aviation and public transport are different markets with a different cost structure, a different target group, a different geographical scale and other European rules. What Mrs Van Tongeren is asking is more of a political matter. I see what's behind it. Do you want to influence prices? But Mrs Van Tongeren should not ask for an ACM investigation. In order to do so, it must negotiate a coalition agreement. That's the point. I think it's a bit of a shame to go and ask people to do research, when it's actually just a political issue. You can look at that differently. The cabinet has no intention of doing it differently than we do it now. I come to Mr Graus's motion (31936, 311), tabled on 24 November 2015. Mr Graus reread the motion as a service. Schiphol itself deals with the airline-reward program. This bill doesn't change anything about that. First of all, I say to Mr Graus: make no mistake, our national home carrier benefits most from it. Mr Graus really needs to be aware of that. If you're gonna tickle that, you're gonna do something I'm sure Mr. Graus doesn't want you to do. Really. The programme is submitted by Schiphol Airport to the airlines. If they consider that it does not comply with the legal requirements, they can lodge a complaint. The ACM has not received any complaints. The reward system rewards those companies that strengthen the network quality of Schiphol. We can objectively see that KLM is making a huge contribution to this. Again, before you begin. I would not accept this motion for a resolution for that reason either. I understand from what point of view it has been tabled, but Mr Graus is going to cut his fingers with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u141	I filed the motion last year with a view to KLM. I'm telling you the truth, I'm not going to beat around the bush. I'm just calling KLM. It's been my job to protect KLM. If the Secretary of State says that the motion may be detrimental to KLM, I say that of course that was never my intention. I will conclave with the people within KLM who told me that at the time. There may be a new insight. It's possible. I will hold the motion for the time being and conclave with my contacts within KLM. If it is as the Secretary of State says, then the motion will not be filed again. Then I'll let her fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u142	Otherwise, if you don't mind sending them to me, I'd almost like to say so. Then we will just discuss it again with them and also explain that it is important for Schiphol to act non-discriminatoryly, as it is so beautifully called. It is therefore not possible to make a specific arrangement. The beauty of the scheme is that you get a reward if you are very good at finding new destinations from Schiphol. There are companies that are very good at this, and so they benefit most. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u143	Finally. I am happy to accept that, because I have to say that this Secretary of State, even when she was still Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, has always spoken bilaterally to many people in order to find a solution. So I'll definitely ask them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u144	Yeah, they got my number. I'm sure you'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u145	It's gonna be all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u146	Mr. Chairman. That was my second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u147	Thank you. Did I understand correctly that you dissuaded the Van Tongeren motion? It has not been said explicitly, but on the basis of its content I believe it was not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u148	Yeah, I'm afraid I'm going to have to confirm that. It's not every day party: the motion is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-30.u149	We are going to vote on the motions, the amendments and the legislative proposal next Tuesday. We will hear from Mr Graus before then whether his motion is included. I thank the Secretary of State for her arrival and the members for their input.
