ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Security and Justice and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. Speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. Can you give an example of an air crash in which the researchers wanted the primary radar data but did not get it? That was a CDA room question. The government's answer was: we cannot give you an example from the last ten years. The primary radar data is missing in the largest investigation of an air crash. The primary radar data shows where a rocket flies, you see if there are any other aircraft in the air and you see the debris. This is obviously important for the investigation, and Mr Knoops also decided that he would be convicted as evidence. Under ICAO and therefore UN rules, countries are obliged to provide this data. Did the government know that these records weren't there? Following the parliamentary debate, there was a discussion with the OVV on missing documents in April. Did the O.V.V. report this at the time? In July there was concept insight. That's when the government knew, right? There has also been high political and administrative support. What signals did the government get in all these talks? Watching a TV broadcast with the former minister you can see that certain research facts have indeed been discussed between the researchers and the government. Where could those radar images from the civilian radar in Ukraine be? Yesterday, the former Secretary of State said that they were not asked. However, he was only Secretary of State since December 2014. EUROCONTROL said: Ukraine didn't report us. But the ambassador says that Artemivsk and Donetsk were broken, Dnipropetrovsk was too far and Cheugiev was in maintenance. Yeah, so that's four radar stations. And what about the Ukrainian military radar? They just said, "We didn't have planes in the air." However, they had warned against a military invasion of Russia. You wouldn't turn off your radar, would you? What did the Ukrainian authorities say about that? Russia had the radar data and erased them. Are we sure they've been erased? If you destroy evidence, you're a criminal. The U.S. has declared them super secret. However, Deputy Minister Nuland said that, if the Netherlands asks for it, the US will consider making the data public. Why doesn't the Dutch government ask them to declassify? Furthermore, NATO was allowed to look for itself. The CDA Group's questions are as follows. First of all, when was the government informed? Has this been discussed in the conversation with the OVV in April? What was done in July? The diplomat who was deployed by the Dutch government in March must have passed on information. How should we assess the fact that the preliminary report of the OVV at the end of October 2014 states that Russia has provided primary radar data, which were later found not to be present? Secondly, is the OVV report still correct if it turns out that the radars in Ukraine were not in maintenance, but that two were shot? How come the researchers have not contacted the organisation concerned, namely EUROCONTROL? That is what the House of Representatives asked for. Thirdly, the D.A. would have stated orally that it no longer needs the radar data. Why didn't that happen in writing? Who told you that orally? Is that on behalf of the whole JIT? Perhaps people are wondering why we, as politicians, are interfering. We do that because ICAO rules require that it is the government that has to file a complaint or initiate a procedure. Also under UN Resolution 2166 which is the resolution of a few days after the MH17 was brought down, Article 11 states that the UN Secretary-General may want to help if there are problems. The CDA therefore asks the Dutch government to make an urgent request through diplomatic channels to make all of those five places where radar data could be available, to see where and why it has disappeared. After these ten days, we would like a plan from the Dutch Government to find out at ICAO or at UN level these radar data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u3	Madam President. Since the publication of the report of the Research Council for Security, there has been quite a lot of commotion about radar and satellite data, whether or not available, which may be able to tell more about exactly what happened on that fatal day, July 17, 2014, with flight MH17. The SP deeply regrets the lack of clarity and hopes that the cabinet will be able to remove the concerns that exist on this issue. In the letter of 21 January, the Minister of Justice writes about radar and satellite data. Although it has long been unclear, the letter states that the US authorities have shared classified radar and satellite information. However, Ukraine has received only raw and processed secondary radar data, and Russia does not have the raw radar data, but video recordings of a combination of processed, primary and secondary radar data. Both are of limited use for research. Ukraine and Russia have also indicated that they do not have any further information, which is very curious. Furthermore, the letter states that the Public Prosecutor has indicated that he currently has sufficient information and therefore does not need additional information in the field of radar and satellite data. If that's necessary later, the cabinet will take action. In addition, the OVV stated that sufficient information was available for the investigation and that any additional radar or satellite data would not change the findings of the OVV. The SP thinks that's a strange thing. Experts who participated in the hearing last week on the MH17 flight also had many comments and comments. Scientists suggested, for example, that further radar and satellite data could give a much more accurate picture of the precise firing location of the Buk rocket, which would allow perpetrators to get a clearer picture. In fact, the report of the OVV identifies a relatively large area as a location from which it has been shot. Can the Minister comment on this? Surely the location should be more precise with the right information? An ICAO spokesperson stated at the hearing that the actions of the Ukrainian and Russian authorities regarding the investigation of the attack on flight MH17 may be punishable. It was intended that both countries did not provide relevant radar images and that, in the case of Ukraine, the OVV should not speak to the Ukrainian air traffic controller who was the last flight MH17 in his custody. Can we respond to this? Is this view shared? Is it true that there has been no talk with the traffic controller, whereas in the event of such disasters it is standard use? Another expert from Delft University of Technology noted that it is strange that the various Ukrainian radars that could provide information on flight MH17 were all off at the time of the attack. Furthermore, it was considered unlikely that the radars were off due to scheduled maintenance, as stated by Ukraine. How's the Minister looking at this? Is this a coincidence? Has Ukraine been asked for clarification on this issue? The SP is deeply concerned about the availability of radar and satellite images and their possible consequences for the crash investigations of flight MH17. These concerns are compounded by an answer to a very simple question already given. The question was: can you name any other aircraft accident in Europe in the last ten years where the researchers wanted the primary radar data under ICAO rules, but didn't get it? As has already been pointed out, the response was as clear as a brief one by the Ministers for Security and Justice and Foreign Affairs. The answer was no. From the hearing I understood that if a similar disaster occurred with an aircraft in the Netherlands, all relevant information is usually available within one day. Well, that's a good thing to think about. I'm closing up. The Minister of Security and Justice states that, despite everything, the Cabinet will not request additional information from the International Civil Aviation Organisation, ICAO or the United Nations in the field of radar and satellite data. According to the SP, that's a wrong attitude. In the view of the SP, the examples just mentioned give every reason to take action now. I would therefore like to hear what possibilities the Cabinet sees for efforts to obtain relevant information in ICAO or in the UN context, or possibly in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. This is the seventh debate since MH17 was brought down. From that moment on, we have always had three goals in mind. First, the repatriation and identification of all bodies. Except for two victims. Secondly, to investigate the situation, so that we know exactly what happened. This has been achieved by the OVV's report, which has been widely praised and read all over the world. Now we need the final step: prosecution and trial. We're gonna put the perps behind bars. At the same time, this is the most difficult step, and success is not guaranteed. However, this must be the goal: the perpetrators behind bars. This is what every debate on MH17 will be about from now on. Also today, speaking of radar data. A lot has already been said about this radar data, and much more has been speculated if possible. I don't think there's anyone in this room who wouldn't want this data. I can't imagine any motive for that either. We are one supervisory body as a Chamber, but I would like to congratulate two colleagues today: Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Omtzigt. They have been baptized "pitbulls" since this morning, because of their unrelenting commitment to achieving that. Many suggestions have been made about how we could get those radar data: file a complaint with ICAO or with the UN Security Council, send a letter to the UN Secretary-General, or press the Russian authorities again to see if they do not have those radar data somewhere, which would have been erased. Will this bring our target, the perpetrators behind bars, closer? I am only asking myself that more after last week's hearings. The report by the OVV is very clear. What he has been able to see is sufficient for his conclusions. I don't want to question those conclusions anymore. Those conclusions are like a house. The OVV says they don't need it. As far as the D.A.'s investigation is concerned, I don't want to do anything as a Member of Parliament that reduces the chances of the perpetrators getting behind bars. But I also want to make sure that the government doesn't leave anything to increase that opportunity. As we know, the Joint Investigation Team, the international collaboration of several investigative bodies, including our own Public Prosecutor's Office, is conducting criminal investigations into the disaster. I understand that the prosecution has indicated that I quote "at present sufficient information" and that there is no need for requests for additional information in the field of radar and satellite data. I will be very honest: that surprises me. Radar data can be crucial to the criminal case, if only to better determine the firing location. Experts also expressed this view during the hearing we organized. Mr Van Bommel and Mr Omtzigt have already pointed this out. We just received the Minister's letter. I quote again: "The prosecution cannot disclose which confidential information is part of the investigation file, but has indicated that it will have broad cooperation in this investigation." That is clear: broad cooperation in this investigation. I do not see what we should do more than in any debate again and in all the questions we ask the government to keep doing so and to do so with all the cooperation that is being given. Now the satellite images of the Americans. The U.S. Deputy Minister for European Affairs Victoria Nuland has stated that she is willing to partially declassify it. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Sjoerdsma have once again asked questions about this issue, and rightly so. I am still not entirely reassured by its response. The Minister writes that the information was shared with the OVV, the U.S. Attorney General and the intelligence services, but also that, because of the search strategy, he cannot provide any information on its content. I understand that, but Nuland's suggestion seems to go much further. On 17 December 2014, she said: "They are likely to ask us to declassify some of that and I think we will be able to help in that regard." Those "they" are us. What does this mean? What are the Americans prepared to do? During our hearing, Mr Wladimiroff had an interesting suggestion. He said that it prevents certain information from being useful for a criminal case, but that it is not intended to be provided because it comes from intelligence services. This problem can be solved by using the requested information only internally for search purposes, but not for public evidence delivery. This method, said Mr Wladimiroff, can be used in the MH17 case. He immediately said that it was a risky route, because it could put a fair trial under pressure. But if this method increases the chances of the perpetrators getting behind bars, I think we should investigate them seriously. That is why I would like to ask the Minister of V and J what his legal opinion is on this suggestion. I have already put this question in writing, but perhaps the Minister can say something about it today. Finally, I would like to look forward. I understand that the Secretary of State for I and M is now in the process of enforcing radar data. Countries should be obliged to retain their radar data. The VVD welcomes that commitment. We don't want any more trick boxes, no more excuses that countries can hide behind when radar data is important for a major international investigation. Can the Secretary of State tell us anything about the conduct of these negotiations? The VVD wants the perps behind bars. This is going to be extremely difficult, but it is precisely for this reason that we must do everything that contributes, but also leave everything that does not contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. "We saw the launch, we saw the orbit, we saw the impact and we saw the plane disappear off the radar; so there's no mystery as to where it came from and where these weapons came from." That's what the U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said shortly after the MH17 disaster. That's important information to get the bottom of it, to get the perpetrators to court, and it's probably the most direct evidence of what happened that day in airspace over Ukraine. On the other hand, the Russians say that they deleted the primary radar data, and that is unheard of. Ukraine claims that radar systems were in maintenance, that they were broken or that they were off, and that is at least remarkable. Together a very strange situation! The absence of these radar data does not relate to international agreements of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), which obliges countries to keep all data after an accident and to hand it over to the researchers. Nor does it relate to UN Security Council Resolution 2166, which commits all countries to cooperate in the investigation. I would like to know from the cabinet why the Netherlands has not started proceedings at ICAO to present this dispute about radar data. There are plenty of examples from the past in which this possibility has been exploited. The bottom stone has to come up, the Netherlands really has to do everything possible, so do everything to get that primary radar data above the table. The Minister writes to the Chamber that the radar data will not change the conclusions of the OVV. And that's reassuring. Those conclusions stand. At the same time, the Cabinet states that the Public Prosecutor's Office currently has sufficient information. However, the Public Prosecutor's Office only informed the Minister orally. When has this happened, who has informed the Minister and why hasn't something of such interest been confirmed in writing? When did the cabinet first talk to the Public Prosecutor about the lack of this radar data? The Minister shall not give this information until the Public Prosecutor's Office requests it to request additional information from ICAO or the UN in the field of radar and satellite data. That sounds like it's not out of the question that the D.A. might still need those primary radar records to get the evidence out. I'm asking the Minister if I understand that correctly. If that request were to come up, how long would it take for the radar data to come up? I started with it: the United States offered to partially declassify the radar data. Mr Ten Broeke also mentioned the quote of the US Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Nuland. How sure is it that the United States is prepared to do so? Did the Netherlands indeed request this? If not, why not? If there is any relevance, why doesn't the Netherlands at least accept the seemingly generous offer of the Americans to declassify the available information? I would like to hear an answer to these questions from the ministers present and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. The aftermath of the attack on the MH17 is characterized by mystery. Documents shall be blacked out or declared a state secret. Also with radar data, there seems to be no willingness to raise the bottom stone. Survivors sent letters to Prime Minister Rutte and the presidents of Russia and Ukraine. They are right to take matters into their own hands. Due to lack of force and transparency, the distrust of relatives and the Dutch people is fed. That distrust is quite understandable. Ukraine and Russia make dubious statements that they do not have primary radar data. The former Secretary of State of Ukraine even says that the OVV never asked for the radar images. This was later denied by the government. It is clear that something is being kept under wraps. The cabinet must take action. Why does it not involve ICAO or the UN? Why doesn't it take Russia or Ukraine legally to get all the radar data on the table? How is it possible that there is no need for additional radar data, while experts point out the need for such data to be prosecuted? The wait-and-see attitude of the cabinet is poignant. We say to these ministers: hit the table with the fist! Make sure that all relevant information comes up, to bring the perpetrators to justice. It's time for the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. The primary radar images of July 17, 2014 can be crucial to get the bottom stone up. It's images that weren't handed over by Ukraine or Russia, not to the OVV, nor to the D.A. This is remarkable, especially with regard to Ukraine's primary radar images. There is a good chance that these primary radar images would show the shot Buk rocket and its firing site, and that the plane would also be almost certainly visible on these images, according to radar expert Van Genderen at the hearing of this Chamber on 22 January. If the Buk missile's firing location can be derived with certainty from primary radar images, then those primary radar images are essential, I think. Does the Minister agree with me? Despite the importance of the primary radar images, the cabinet did not actively look for them. For example, the Cabinet did not submit a request to ICAO to ensure that those primary radar images are on the table. Is the Minister prepared to make that request? Russia said it only destroyed the radar data because the accident of the MH17 did not occur on Russian territory. I think that is an incomprehensible attitude. It may be that Russia was not legally wrong, but, ethically speaking, Russia's behaviour is extremely bad. Has Russia been called upon to do so by our government? Is the government still prepared to call on the Russian ambassador to do so? The relatives of the victims felt compelled to write Rutte, Poroshenko, Putin and John Kerry about this. Of course, it should never have come to the extent that the next of kin felt compelled to this written plea. What has gone wrong in the communication between government and victims at this point? I'd like a response from the rulers. The absence of primary radar images may have implications for the criminal investigation. Action to obtain such evidence is therefore necessary. Why do the letterboxes of ICOA and the states of Ukraine and Russia not pour out Dutch requests? On what basis does the cabinet base the confidence that the public prosecutor has sufficient radar data and that the conclusions that can be drawn from the radar data that one does have are no different than when primary radar data were available? How can the Minister be sure that this is true? I'd like a response. Another point is this. Satellite expert Langbroek found during the hearing of the Lower House that, if you keep your data secret, you give other parties a handle to question the conclusions of the investigation. Therefore, if primary radar data has not been inserted into the study, whether intentionally or unintentionally, it could be used to question the investigation. That is why I ask the Minister to respond. How does he assess that risk? Then there is the chaotic provision of information from Ukraine following the question of why there would be no primary radar data. The former Secretary of State Shulmeister, former member of the Ukrainian research team MH17, came up with remarkable statements this week. He suggested that primary radar images existed, and it would be civilian primary radar images. On the same day, his statement was contradicted by the Ukrainian Ministry of Infrastructure. Then there was the Ukrainian ambassador's statement in our country: the first radar had been destroyed, the second was in maintenance and the third had no reach. That is a very different story than we can read in the report of the Security Research Council. The Ukrainian civilian primary radar stations in the area functioned, as we read there, at the time of the crash not because of periodic maintenance. In addition, radar expert Van Genderen said during the hearing in the Lower House that it is curious and abnormal that three civilian radar stations are in maintenance at the same time, as the OVV states. I'd like a response from the Minister. Big question remains: were those civilian primary radar stations working or not on July 17, 2014? EUROCONTROL claims to have had no mention of non-functioning, whereas Ukraine should have reported it. Has Ukraine been asked for clarification? Has anyone asked why that didn't happen? In conclusion, the following questions. Have any military radar data been obtained from Ukraine? If not, why not? If so, what were those radar records? Does the prosecution have more information on the firing site of the Buk missile than can be derived from the secondary radar images obtained from Ukraine? Is the cabinet prepared to ask Kiev again for civilian primary radar images? Finally. Is the Cabinet prepared to ask Kiev to clarify why the primary civilian radar stations were not in operation? Expanding explanations have been given for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Chairman. More than a year and a half after taking down flight MH17, the patience of many is still being tested. In the last few days, we have seen some very poignant expressions of this. Anyone who sits here and feels involved in this file feels impatience, too. The first step, the retrieving of the human remains has succeeded. The other tasks were truth finding... the investigation of the OVV has been completed... and the criminal investigation, but that's still ongoing. Those two issues, the truth, the subject matter, and the criminal investigation and the trial, should always take place in an atmosphere where there is as much transparency as possible. Everyone needs that. In any case, you can say that the government and the institutions that do this work on behalf of the government should have as much openness as possible as a standard. I saw this aptly described in a case brought by the NOS, RTL and the Volkskrant. They wrote: "In view of the social impact of the MH17 and the many questions that live with the relatives, it is very important for the government to be transparent about all its efforts in the aftermath of this disaster." I think everyone agrees with that. However, there may be tension between the cases that are being pursued, in particular criminal investigations, and the need for transparency. It may be that you do not want to put too much emphasis on relations with countries that you may need later in the process, for example for the establishment of a tribunal. That sounds unsatisfactory, but it can be sensible. There are also limitations in the legal enforceability of some international agreements. ICAO, in particular, is international law soft, you might say. Both attorney Knoops and lawyer De Hoon pointed that out in the hearing we had last week. Of course, there is always a certain importance of confidentiality during an ongoing criminal investigation. In domestic terms, of course, you do not want to make those who suspect and those who perhaps protect them wiser than is strictly necessary. Mr Langbroek endorsed that statement in the same hearing. It is clear that there is tension, and I can certainly understand that. Of course, it is important to note the statement made by the Public Prosecutor, namely that it has sufficient information at the moment, and the government's commitment that if the Public Prosecutor needs assistance, she will give it. In addition to the many questions that have already been asked, I would like to clarify three more points. The first is communication with and above all with the Ukrainian Government. It is unclear, to say the least, and sometimes contradictory. Mr De Roon has just mentioned a number of examples of this. This week, in particular, it turned out again what uncertainty can arise. I think everyone senses how extremely unpleasant that is. I'm asking the government how it points this out. How does it explain that the Ukrainian Government has made different statements at different times and what contacts have been there with the Ukrainians in particular in recent days? The second point concerns the United States radar and satellite data. Victoria Nuland's statements have already been cited by a number of colleagues. I ask the government whether it considers it possible that the commitment it actually made in its public statement, namely that the classification will take place when the investigation so permits, is also formally confirmed from government to government, between the Netherlands and the United States. The third point is that the next of kin need to be regularly updated by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NCTV. In the letter from the Prime Minister to Mr Schansman, and through him to a number of other families, it is promised that a meeting will be held. I think that's a good move. I must say that I am sorry that an earlier request from those same relatives has apparently been rejected. I actually want the promise that from now on we will simply be informed regularly, at least if requested. I understand that this will be basic and that everything cannot be put on the table there. In any case, I would ask you to keep that contact structuralally and properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u9	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u10	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for the questions that have been put and the comments that have been made. The division of tasks between me and my colleagues is as follows. After my contribution, the Foreign Minister will discuss everything relating to external relations and the United Nations. The Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment will focus in particular on the questions raised about ICAO and developments there. The Dutch Government has had three objectives since the terrible disaster with the MH17. In the first place, the victims and their possessions had to be repatriated. Mr Ten Broeke said the same thing. Secondly, the associated identification had to be carried out. Unfortunately, we have not had the opportunity to definitively identify the last two victims. Then we had to be clear about the terrible disaster. That was done on the basis of the report of the Security Research Council. Finally, the prosecution and, where possible, the trial of the perpetrators must take place. The last part is in full swing. As members know, the criminal investigation is taking place. That is also the absolute priority of the Dutch Government. The Joint Investigation Team is coordinated by the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office. In all the ways required by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Dutch Government will provide its assistance to the investigation. Today's debate is very specific about the availability of radar and satellite data for both the investigation of the Research Council for Security, which has already been closed, and the Joint Investigation Team in the context of criminal prosecution and prosecution of the perpetrators. Let me say first of all that I have a great deal of sympathy for all those relatives who feel that their patience is being put to the test. I also realize that a criminal investigation of something as horrible as the disaster with the MH17 can, of course, go fast enough for no one. I have also heard a number of spokesmen say that they are aware of this. At the same time, of course, there is only one interest, namely that the criminal investigation is conducted carefully. This has also been confirmed here this evening by a number of spokesmen. There should be no damage to the investigation in any way, not even by sharing information from that criminal investigation with anyone at an early stage. It is also of course the case that the Public Prosecutor's Office, together with the Joint Investigation Team, has the responsibility to ensure that that investigation is as successful as possible. That is the importance of all of us. If it is necessary to test our patience, then I think there will be a broad understanding of it, no matter how annoying it may be. This will be widely understood in view of the result everyone wants. We have already had a few written exchanges of views with the Chamber on the radar images. Today, another letter was sent to the Chamber by the Foreign Minister and myself. It was sent in response to media reports in which a former member of the Ukrainian Government claimed that the Security Research Council would never have asked for primary radar data. Meanwhile, the Ukrainian Government has distanced itself from the alleged and also the Research Council for Security itself has indicated that the claim is incorrect. The Council formally and at various times requested Ukraine to hand over all relevant radar data to the investigation team. A good question is, what is the importance of those radar images and satellite images? I have heard a number of spokesmen confirm, also in connection with the hearing, that radar and satellite images can, of course, help to identify the cause of the disaster involving flight MH17. That's right. They can also help determine the location from which the missile would have been fired. In addition, radar and satellite images can help to rule out any other scenarios as a cause of the disaster. But of course radar and satellite images are not the only useful sources for both investigations. Rough and processed secondary radar data have been received from Ukraine for both the Joint Investigation Team's investigation and that of the Security Research Council. The Russian Federation has not received raw radar data, but video recordings of a combination of processed primary and secondary radar data. Both countries have indicated that they do not have any further information. The US authorities have shared classified information, i.e. secret, radar and satellite information, from their intelligence and security services with the Dutch Military Intelligence and Security Service, on request. Through the Military Intelligence and Security Service, both the Security Research Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office have been able to take note of this information. If desired, this data will also be available through the Military Intelligence and Security Service for the criminal trial. I say here, in particular to Mr Servaes and Mr Ten Broeke, but also to the other Members who have asked: should the Public Prosecutor's Office need the classification of that information for the criminal proceedings, then the Dutch Government will, of course, ask for it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs may explain this further. I've come to the report of the Security Research Council. The Ukrainian authorities had based on the rules...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u11	I may have to ask the Foreign Minister this question, but I'm trying to do it now. Am I to understand that American satellite information has been declassified for the benefit of STUDY? And do I understand that this information was then shared with the members of the prosecution who conduct the investigation, secondary, and that the Netherlands is taking action if there is a need for declassification or declassification for the criminal proceedings in any form whatsoever?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u12	I do not know whether there is technical declassification between the Americans and the Military Intelligence and Security Service. I will not comment on that either. What Mr Ten Broeke is saying is quite correct. If the Public Prosecutor's Office asks the Dutch Government, because of the importance of the criminal proceedings, to proceed to any form of declassification, it will immediately forward that request to the relevant authorities, in this case the US authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u13	For the record, you're waiting for the D.A. to request it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u14	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u16	The Security Research Council has been given the authority to conduct investigations by the Ukrainian authorities, which should have been responsible for the independent investigation into the disaster under ICAO rules. The UN Security Council adopted Resolution 2166 as rightly recalled. In it, the Security Council called for unrestricted and secure access to the site of the disaster and for full support for independent international research. The cabinet was very committed to a thorough and independent investigation and has always worked internationally for this purpose. At the same time, the cabinet was very aware of the position of the Netherlands. Of great importance for both investigations, both criminal law and the Research Council, was that we continued to be neutral and objective. The cabinet appreciates the investigation of the Security Research Council. He has been able to conduct international research independently, impartially and in line with all international guidelines. On this basis, conclusions have been drawn. Many of the questions that lived at national and international level, especially of course the questions of the victims' families, are answered in the report. It provides detailed and detailed evidence of how flight MH17 was brought down. In its investigation and hearing with the Chamber, the Research Council for Security indicated that it would have liked to have had access to the aforementioned radar images, but stressed that it had sufficient information to support the findings and conclusions presented in the reports. More information from radar and satellite images would not have changed the conclusions, according to the OVV. The report has been positively received worldwide. Several countries have issued statements welcoming the report, stressing that it is an independent, transparent and thorough report. The international experts involved have also unanimously supported the results of the research. For the debate, I think it is important that this also applies to the experts from Ukraine itself. I understand that the Chamber has now asked 50 questions to the Security Research Council. Of course they will be answered. I note that questions have been asked about the Ukrainian Government's communications on the radars, the reason why they did not work and the comments in the OVV report. I would suggest to the Court that it add that question, if it has not yet been included in the 50 questions, so that the Research Council itself can answer that question. The only thing I can do is to read out that passage from the research report of the Research Council. However, this passage is well known to the members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u17	The minister said that if the D.A. needs it, he's going to the Americans to ask if the documents, the radar data or the satellite images can be declassified, so that the secrecy is removed. But why would he wait until the D.A. asks for it? Everyone's gonna see that it's necessary as proof, right? You can never have too much evidence, so why isn't that action already being taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u18	I understand Mr Bontes' question very well. We must look closely at what Mrs Nuland has said. Perhaps the Foreign Minister will say a little more about this later, but Mrs Nuland has said with a number of blows to the arm that she could do so. We now have information that is fully available to the D.A. through the STUDY. That's probably more than can be obtained if there's declassified. I don't know, but that's obvious. That is why I think that the prosecution also says that the public prosecutor has enough of the information that they already have. If there is a need to declassify the information, which does not necessarily mean that it is the same information, we will simply ask for it. That is exactly what is needed, I think, also for Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u19	But we're sure one day it'll be necessary for the evidence, that seems clip-and-ready to me. Again, I don't understand why you have to wait. Of course, the D.A. has information and can go through with it, but the D.A. also knows they need it sooner or later, so why not take action now? Then you can speed things up. You're gonna cut the whole stretch short, aren't you? If you're gonna have to do it all again afterwards, there's gonna be a lot of time in there, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u20	I don't know how that's gonna work out. I'm not gonna let you know. I note that there is information available through the Military Intelligence and Security Service, indicating that the Public Prosecutor does not need any more or other information and that that information can also be used in criminal proceedings based on a message of office from the STUDY. I can't judge the state of the criminal investigation, which is really up to the D.A. I have to go to the state's attorney's office at that point, and so do I. I have already told Mr Ten Broeke that if the Public Prosecutor asks that question or any other question about any evidence, the government will of course take action. This also applies to requests for legal aid issued under my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u21	I would like to continue on Mr Bontes' point. I understand the government's waiting for the D.A.'s office because otherwise she's gonna go through the investigation. The suggestion made by Mrs Nuland at the end of 2014 was that the Americans themselves offered something. She was literally talking about "declassified." Then there were statements that seemed to be nuanced, let me put it this way: "I think we can help the Dutch." We can do that in any way we can. Is it sufficient to declassify only Dutch military intelligence officers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u22	I note that the US authorities, through the military intelligence service, have cooperated with both the investigative board and the prosecution, and that both have indicated their full satisfaction. I have no knowledge of it myself, so I can't make any announcements about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u23	I understand that, which is why I am now trying from the side of the Americans and the public suggestion or almost commitment of the US Deputy Minister. Have the Americans taken the same action as in favour of the OVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u24	My information is that for both investigations the information was thus made available by the US authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u26	I'm on the criminal investigation. The Public Prosecutor's Office conducts the criminal investigation together with Ukraine, Malaysia, Australia and Belgium in the so-called Joint Investigation Team. It might be good to remind you of that. It goes without saying that the cabinet does not interfere in the criminal investigation, but takes action when the Public Prosecutor's Office asks for it. I've confirmed that to the Chamber before. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Joint Investigation Team are leading in this respect, facilitating the cabinet. If the D.A. asks, we'll run and we'll exercise restraint as long as the investigation of the D.A.'s office isn't completed. It was rightly noted that it is a good thing that the Public Prosecutor's Office is trying to keep the next of kin informed. I think Mr Servaes referred to that. I understand very well, and the Public Prosecutor also understands that, how difficult it must be for the next of kin that information on criminal investigations has not been provided for so long. Of course, everyone also understands that the Public Prosecutor's Office cannot take a look at the information and does not want to make public what information it has. However, the Public Prosecutor's Office will ensure, as I have also informed the Chamber, that a moment of information is being organized for the next of kin, so that at least what can be made available and made public is communicated to the next of kin in a meeting, so that a picture of the state of the investigation is presented directly from the Public Prosecutor's Office at the moment. I come to the questions asked by the individual Members. Several spokesmen asked what the Dutch government thinks the information from Ukrainian radar stations is not available. As I said, it is extremely difficult to answer that. The Security Research Council has investigated this and has said what it has said. As I have just said, I think it is right that the questions about the difference between the question of investigation and the announcements, via the Ukrainian Government's ambassador, should be added to the questions that the Chamber has already asked to the OVV. Mr De Roon asked a question about the communication from the former Deputy Minister or State Secretary. I can tell him that it is now clear that this reading is not confirmed by the Ukrainian Government or by the Security Research Council. We have already said that, if the Public Prosecutor asks, we will take all the actions we have to take. I come to the announcements made by the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u27	It seems to me to be a good suggestion to ask the D.A. how these conversations went exactly. I would like to ask one specific question. Reading today's letter and also the research accountability of the OVV, I note that at some point a special envoy or such a person from the OVV went to Kiev to discuss this matter. Have these talks about the availability of radar data always been held only between the OVV and the Ukrainian authorities themselves, or has the Dutch government at some point played a role in this? This is important if we are to focus our questions purely on the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u28	I do not have any information on the role of the Dutch government in this matter. I will have to leave this question to my foreign minister or answer it in the second term. The questions about the OVV-part can be asked to the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u29	That is important, because if we now agree that we are focusing these questions directly on the OVV, then we must be sure that the Dutch government did not have these contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u30	At the moment, I do not have the information that will enable me to give an answer. That answer comes either at a later date or in my second-term contribution. Next, a comment on how the Public Prosecutor informs me. The Public Prosecutor's Office regularly sends me reports on the progress of the criminal investigation. This is common in the relationship between the Minister of Security and Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The subject of radar data has also been discussed regularly in the discussions I have with the Public Prosecutor's Office. Each time the Public Prosecutor has confirmed to me that there is no need for more or other information and that there is sufficient data for the criminal investigation. The D.A. got that information through the STUDY, among other things. I can tell Mr Omtzigt that the government has not had access to the draft report. The government has had access to the Preliminary Report, the report published by the Research Council for Security after a hundred days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u31	Before proceeding, Mr Omtzigt would like to return to the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u32	I will come back to the previous point and then I will come back to this point. The Government shall be kept regularly informed in writing by means of signed official reports on the progress of the criminal investigation. These statements of office are not, by their nature, public; that is a perfectly logical matter. But I'm surprised at this. If the government had told me that it has signed letters of office confirming that there is no need for radar data and if those letters of office also contain the text that there is no need for it not only in the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office but also in the other four countries of the JIT, then it could. After all, we still have to decide how we are going to set up a court together, that must be done by mutual agreement, and perhaps a prosecutor will be able to make that information available. However, this shall be communicated orally. Can the Minister tell me why there is no written notice here with a signature, which states: we do not now need this primary radar data?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u33	The Public Prosecutor's Office coordinates the Joint Investigation Team and has a leading role in the investigation. It also speaks in the relationship between the Joint Investigation Team and me as the responsible minister, on behalf of the Joint Investigation Team. For me, there is no difference between a letter of office that is written or a statement that the Public Prosecutor makes orally when I ask him questions. I ask a lot of questions and I get a lot of answers. So I don't need a post with a signature. If the D.A. informs me, the D.A. informs me; that's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u34	During the previous debate, we had a very long discussion about the Kiev briefing, which was only received after written confirmations and letters and which said that documents were moved from A to B. This is probably the most important evidence that we can suspect existed. This concerns the question of where the missile was fired and who did it. Then surely it can't be that if the prosecution decides that it doesn't need it now, that this will only be communicated orally? Will the Minister insist that this be communicated in writing at least with a signature from the responsible prosecutor? Can the Chamber receive a feedback within 24 or 48 hours? Can the officer in that post state that he doesn't need it now, that this means he's gonna let go of the ICAO route because if you don't do it now, you can't file another complaint with ICAO in a year's time and that this is also happening on behalf of the other countries in the JIT? Because if it isn't, we'll be standing here in six months' time and thinking: we should have; it's crucial evidence. And then we're too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u35	I must warn Mr Omtzigt on one point. He is now commenting on the importance of radar images for a criminal investigation that neither Mr Omtzigt nor I should have any insight and comments about. I would really like to have warned against this, because from this there is an image that may not be right. I'd really regret it if that image came into being. For me, there is no difference between an oral statement and a written statement from the Public Prosecutor. So I don't need any signed documents either. The D.A. has reported this to me several times, as I have informed the Chamber. That's what the D.A. told me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u36	Can the Minister say when he was first informed by the Public Prosecutor that there was no such need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u37	I don't have that date ready, but that was when the discussion about the radar images started. I was looking forward to that. I asked the D.A. about that, and it answered it along these lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u38	I also ask this because the predecessor of this minister, Minister Opstelten, said here in the Chamber at the time that if it were necessary, the cabinet would do all it could to find available or temporarily unavailable evidence. I would like to know for sure from this minister that the prosecutor's request or the prosecution's statement... Excuse me, I am a bit stuck; that is also due to the time and the lengthy debates. I would, however, like to make sure that the Public Prosecutor's Office sees no need to request these radar images, not only now that this is actually the essence of my question, but also in the future. I also asked that in my first speech, because I see that if that request is to be made, we will find ourselves in a swamp of very long procedures, especially if the UN route is to be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u39	I do not understand exactly what Mr Sjoerdsma's question is. He asked if I could rule out for the future that the D.A...? Of course I can't. That's up to the D.A.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mr Sjoerdsma has the opportunity to reword his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To be more precise, the Minister states that he has been informed orally by the Public Prosecutor's Office and that the Public Prosecutor does not need it at the moment. My first question was whether this implies that there will never be a need for it, or whether it implies that there may be a need for it in the future. If that is the case, then my question is how to ensure that we do not have to start this kind of procedure in order to obtain these images at a late stage by the time that there may be a trial going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u42	I understand Mr Sjoerdsma's question. I can't confirm that the D.A. will never ask that, but it would be weird if the D.A. said he has enough information now and didn't need that information, and then it turned out it was different. If so, we will take immediate action. I've already confirmed that to several members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u43	It is important that we have established here a few times in a row and with each other that if the prosecution changes its mind, the government will immediately do everything it can to follow what the prosecutor then wishes. It is really a question of: you ask, we turn! That's how it's gotta be. I find the point whether the Minister has been informed orally or in writing completely uninteresting. What I find interesting is that in the meantime he has informed us twice in writing of the fact that the public prosecutor does not seem to need it at the moment. Can the Minister also inform us about any requests for legal aid? Or is that outside the scope of the requests that have already been made or which may still follow? Can he make that commitment for the future or does he not want to give an insight into it because it gives him an insight into a strategy of persecution? I'd like to know more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u44	The latter is the case. I never make communications about requests for legal aid, but I can confirm that many requests for legal aid have been made. These are not necessary when it comes to the cooperating countries in the Joint Investigation Team.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u45	Did you have any questions, Mr. Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u46	Yes. What was the last answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u47	You've got to be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u48	I don't know, Mr. Chairman. You moved on when I asked you to interrupt. The Minister then said that he was answering Mr Omtzigt's questions. What questions had he answered and wanted to answer? 'Cause I got a whole bunch here. I do not have to ask Mr Koenders this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u49	I believe that I have answered all the questions put to me by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u50	Do you have any questions that haven't been answered yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u51	Yes. In the only other MH17 debate we had, Minister Van der Steur made a commitment that he would turn to the OVV in April to see if there was still a need for certain information. Did the OVV say at the time that we couldn't get those radar data? Secondly, he said that the government did not have the final draft report of the OVV. In my opinion, for example, the Ministry of I and M had provided feedback on the texts. That preliminary report should have been available in July. Has the preliminary report been available? So the government knew in July? Did she have a conversation with the OVV in April? Did the OVV say anything about missing radar images?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u52	No, that report wasn't available. This also has to do with the independence of the Research Council. I asked the Research Council if any more or more information was needed for the investigation. The answer to that was "no." That is the same answer as that which has already been confirmed in writing to the Chamber several times. The Research Council indicated that it would have liked to have the images at its disposal, but that they were not needed for the investigation. Even if they had been available, no other conclusions would have been drawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u53	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u54	You are making it very briefly on a very important piece, Mr President. At the end of March, at the beginning of April, a diplomat from the Ministry of Minister Koenders leaves for Ukraine to ask for radar data. It is clear from the OVV report that the OVV deeply regrets that it is not getting that radar data. Three weeks later, there is a debate in the Chamber following the Kiev briefing, but then we didn't know anything about the radar data. In that debate, the government said one thing: we will ask the OVV if there are things he wants, but he does not get. What did the OVV say in April? Did the OVV say that there were no problems or did he mention that there were problems with the radar and one or two other problems? I do not even need to know what problems these were, but did the OVV make a comment in that conversation in April, which I am sure took place, on missing radar data that had been erased in Russia and could not be found in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u55	I don't know the answer that specifically asked. I'll check that out and I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u56	Have there been any further questions left, Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u57	This question has been asked twice in writing, so I am sorry that it has to be done this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u58	You can come back to that. The Minister has promised that he will answer this question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u59	In my first speech, I quoted one of the suggestions made by Mr Wladimiroff. I hope, by the way, that I will say his name correctly now, but otherwise the Minister will certainly correct me. I read from Mr Wladimiroff's contribution to the hearing organised by the Chamber: 'Some information may be useful for criminal proceedings, but it is not intended to be provided because it comes from intelligence services'. I'm just counting satellite data from military satellites. According to Wladimiroff, this problem can be solved by using the requested information internally only for search purposes, but not for public evidence delivery. That information is therefore unlikely to be visible to those who are present in criminal proceedings themselves. Can the Minister reflect on this suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u60	I'm not gonna reflect on the strategy of the criminal trial. It's not for me to do that either. That's really a matter for the D.A.'s office. I repeat what the situation is. The American data is classified and has been provided to the Military Intelligence and Security Service. He then gave access to that information for the OVV and the Public Prosecutor's Office. STUDY is willing to provide official messages if necessary for the criminal trial. That's the line. That is more than what Mr Wladimiroff suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u61	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for its first-term questions. Let me make a few comments. Not many specific questions have been asked to me. Also for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, following the completion of the OVV report, the criminal investigation has the highest priority and that we are proactively facilitating, so to speak. As Mr Ten Broeke said, you ask and we turn. Everything, really everything, is at its service to limit the impunity of this case and bring people to justice. So we need to do this very carefully and step by step, as we did at the OVV. We have left the OVV independent and independent. That's also internationally appreciated. It is precisely because this is so internationally appreciated that the OVV has received a great deal of acceptance. I think it is important to say that we too do not sit in the chair of the Public Prosecutor or the OVV. This means that when they ask for something, I will say something about it. The Foreign Minister will, of course, take active action to facilitate what is being asked. If we were to do so ourselves and sit in the chair of the Public Prosecutor's Office, for example, then it can be expected that international relations will not become easy because it is precisely then that the independence of research will be questioned because politics and diplomacy will become involved. That really is a very harsh rule that the Foreign Office is following. This has so far resulted in the result that we wanted, namely an OVV report which has been widely accepted in the world and in which the cause of the disaster with the MH17 has been clearly identified. Apart from a number of countries, everyone has appreciated the OVV. That is because we are allowing the OVV to be independent, because we are not going to investigate ourselves and because we are not going to politicise it. I think this might be my most important message tonight. This doesn't mean that the State Department or myself are passive. On the contrary. What applies to the OVV investigation also applies to the criminal investigation, which is carried out by the Public Prosecutor in cooperation with four other countries, as you know that Australia, Malaysia, Ukraine and Belgium are carried out in the JIT. As Mr Van der Steur said, the investigation, like any investigation, is carried out independently, without the cabinet interfering. Again, the prosecution is more than anyone in a position to assess how the investigation can be carried forward. We are repeating ourselves here, but this is essential. The D.A. can also best assess what information is needed for this. I want to keep it that way, because that's how we invest in cooperation in the JIT. In it, we are a facilitator. I have already said that we are acting at the moment when the Public Prosecutor states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be actively involved. I would like to clarify the following: from day one onwards, without going into specific research questions, every opportunity has been taken to get full cooperation from all the states concerned. Both the investigation of the OVV and the criminal investigation have been advocated. In bilateral contacts with relevant countries, there has also been a call at political and high-level level for full cooperation in the investigations, referring to UN Security Council Resolution 2166. At the request of the Netherlands, the European Union has also repeatedly called on the international community to cooperate fully in the investigations. Personally, I travelled to Moscow in June 2015 to insist on that. Last week there was a high-level delegation of Foreign Affairs in Moscow to insist on this once again. It also referred to the letter from 22 relatives to President Putin. There are many contacts with Ukraine. The MH17 is of course always on the agenda for all these contacts. Last Monday, there was another high-level delegation from Ukraine in The Hague to discuss cooperation on the MH17. Cooperation with Ukraine under the JIT is fully satisfactory. That's important, too. Mr Omtzigt said that the specific instruments still need to be defined. During the hearing, he heard that it is important to choose this only when there is more clarity at the Public Prosecutor's Office on how the investigations are conducted. That is why we are not going to deal with politicisation or independent research. The Cabinet facilitates the criminal investigation by sending requests for legal aid to a large number of countries and following up where necessary. You could say that we are in fact a sort of mailbox, which ensures that those requests are made on the spot, without interfering in their content. This is done in close coordination with and at the request of the Public Prosecutor. Legal aid applications have been made to several countries. This has led to useful information for the investigation. Minister Van der Steur has already dealt with this. I also said that a group of next of kin wrote letters to the United States, the Ukrainian Government and Prime Minister Rutte requesting that the missing radar or satellite data be made available. I think it is my job as Foreign Minister to proactively ask those countries for an answer, without interfering in that particular question. Those requests really have to come from the Public Prosecutor's Office or, as mentioned earlier, from the OVV. I have also been asked a question about the Russian Federation. Do we still have to go to the UN Security Council? Of course, we are not in the UN Security Council, which we hope to get into, but we are going to see this year, but of course we are involved in this because of Resolution 2166. We have also sent the OVV reports to the UN. They're involved in that, too. A course towards the UN Security Council on this point is therefore not possible follow-up action within the judicial route.... only if you request the release of the relevant radar and satellite images by means of a resolution with a binding call for all states. However, I have just said that there is no request from the Public Prosecutor's Office or the OVV. So we're not gonna do that either. Apart from that, you really have to have a case. The Dutch Safety Board, or the OVV, is highly appreciated internationally. If that main research institute doesn't think it's necessary to do this, that doesn't make any sense to me either. The Secretary of State of I and M will discuss the retention obligation in a moment's time. Minister Van der Steur has well expressed important responsibilities in the field of foreign policy, just as he himself is concerned with the information provided by Mrs Nuland. I can only agree with that. If there is a need for the classification of data, we will, of course, act directly on it. As is currently the case, the US authorities have, at the Dutch request, shared classified radar and satellite information from their intelligence and security services with the STPD. Both the OVV and the D.A. have been able to learn about this confidentially through the STUDY. The D.A. and the STUDY have provided that this information can also be made available by means of official messages so that they can contribute to the evidence during the prosecution and trial. By the way, I am always in close contact with Mrs Nuland. I also read what she said at the time. We have also talked about this. I think that the US Government is also watching this debate and understands that we are only acting on this when it would be necessary, according to the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u62	I would like to continue with the commitment made by Mrs Nuland at the end of 2014, because that is how I see it. In the meantime, we know that this could lead to information already shared between the Americans and our military intelligence services being made available in the form of a post for the criminal trial. In fact, Minister Van der Steur says that this is a farther option than I put forward on the basis of the information we received from the hearing with Mr Wladimiroff. This is without prejudice to the fact that I am reading this in a different way. That is that a much more generous offer seems to have been made by Mrs Nuland, but perhaps I am wrong about that. I think it is important that we get to the bottom of this, because if that is the case, I also want to know whether diplomatic action has been taken. Can the Minister comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u63	There are two things we need to distinguish. Mr Ten Broeke spoke about what had been done diplomatically. Again, I'm doing something diplomatic, if the state's attorney's office thinks it's necessary. Of course, there are contacts with the US Government, and in any case with Mrs Nuland, because she is Deputy Minister for European Affairs, but she does not do such a thing completely independently. I do not know how Mr Ten Broeke interprets this or on the basis of what information he makes these statements, but in the public statements she has said: declassify some of that. This means that there can always be certain restrictions for the US Government. I don't know. I can't judge that right now. In any case, I note that she has a positive basic attitude. That's important when the D.A. would like to explore that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u64	You could also follow the following reasoning. If she says: they are likely to ask us to declassify some of that so that would have come from us and not from them I think we will be able to help them in that respect. Then you could say: that's an offer that's there, that's what I'm using, that's what I'm going after, I'm not waiting for the DA to ask me that. I say that for this reason too. This is not a request that has never been made to the Americans. The Minister has a lot of knowledge of what is going on in the United Nations. The Americans have also been asked in the past to declassify, for example in the case of genocide, when it is observed in countries that terrible things happen, when military satellites have been able to observe them and there are images of them. In some cases, they are asked to declassify, for example for UN officials who have the right status.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u65	I don't know what your question is. I don't disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u66	That you could have gone after it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u67	Yeah, but you're acting like the government suddenly wouldn't be active. I have just said that we have extensive contacts with Mrs Nuland, but it is not wise, not even towards colleagues in the JIT or towards the United States, if the Netherlands is now self-employed, in the light of a legal case, to ask for separate information that the Public Prosecutor has not asked for. It is precisely because of Mrs Nuland's commitments that I have no doubt that, if there are any questions, they will try to answer as much as possible. I cannot go into that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u68	Once again the question asked by Mr Ten Broeke, but now a little more specific: has Under Secretary of State Nuland made an active offer or has there been a possibility for the Netherlands to make use of? An offer is something you can receive, something that can just happen, but creating an opportunity is something you actively have to go after yourself. Which one is it in the case of this lady?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u69	You are referring to public statements by Mrs Nuland. Mrs Nuland wanted to do it, as the Americans do: of course, if this is necessary, we are prepared to help you bring the people who did it to justice. That is what the Americans want, and that is why we have good cooperation with them, and that is why I am not worried about that. I cannot comment on exactly what information that concerns. I don't know. That's not up to me either. I've taken note of it. I have proactive contact with her. I will stick to that; it is a matter of principle. At the moment when the Public Prosecutor's Office or colleague Van der Steur wants me to take further action, I will. I'm not gonna manufacture what kind of information we get from which country. Let me give you a note that, when I do, there really is an influence on the politics with which we want to deepen this kind of contact. I think it is only positive, and I think the Dutch Parliament could also see that there is such a build-up of appreciation for the way in which the Netherlands tries to deal with investigations and prosecutions as objectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u70	I would not like to take anything away from that appreciation, either, nor would I wish to alter the conclusions of the research carried out by the OVV. These conclusions stand like a house; there is no doubt about that. It seems as if Mrs Nuland made an offer and this cabinet had only had to extend its hands in order to obtain valuable information. That information would probably also be geopolitically interesting for the cabinet, regardless of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u71	No, that's not the case. As I have just said, this statement has been made by Mrs Nuland. We appreciate that, and we consider that to be positive. I believe that the United States, in particular, is prepared to do so in a variety of ways within its own rules on classification on the basis of requests from public ministries and the JIT. I come to one more question that has been put to me. No Dutch diplomat went to Ukraine in March, perhaps there has been a misunderstanding. I think we are talking about a former diplomat, Mr Jacobovits. He personally did facilitating work for the OVV. At the heart of this is the independence of the OVV's contacts. Of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs facilitates that. It's our role to make sure someone knows where to go and that conversations come about. But the former diplomat in question did this precisely because of his independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u72	If there was one radar station that was on, it was the station in Dnipropetrovsk, in Russia. The data from that radar station was destroyed by the Russians. I hear my colleagues now saying "Rostov." At least it was in Russia. The Russians destroyed the data from that radar station. Did our government talk to them diplomatically about that bad behavior? It may have been a legal mistake, but at least it was morally wrong to destroy that kind of important material about such a terrible disaster. Did the Minister talk to the Russian Government about that? And in what way? If he hasn't done that yet, is he planning on doing it anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u73	The Secretary of State of I and M will address the data, the retention obligation and the question of what should or should not have happened. There are certain ICAO rules for this. It will provide the Court with further information on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u74	I await all this with interest, but my question, which belongs to the Minister, does not go away: is Russia diplomatically addressed to it or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u75	The intention is to build up the contacts with Russia necessary to bring criminal proceedings. It's addressed to everything. You know that I have done so repeatedly, including the attempt to get those people in front of the Criminal Court. You can count on this kind of thing being discussed with the Russians. That does not mean that it leads directly to results, because that is something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u76	That "discussed" is quite different from saying that you find it extremely reprehensible and that you give that country a scrubber. I think something like that is in order. Or doesn't the Minister think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u77	As I have just told you, the Secretary of State of I and M will deal with the precise retention obligation and how it is handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u78	We've had a hearing with experts. They all stated that these radar images are crucial to the trial that will take place and that these very important images need to be insisted on. Is the Minister prepared to insist, whether through the UN or ICAO, that Russia and Ukraine provide complete and complete clarity about what has happened to those images and that they are trying to get them out of the way? After all, it is a rather unbelievable story: radars that stand out, are in maintenance or are broken. And no one believes that such images are erased. I would therefore ask the Minister to urge the UN and ICAO to see these images come to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u79	The Secretary of State will answer the questions relating to ICAO. I have already said why I do not think it is wise to re-enlist the United Nations at this time. I am not saying that because I will rule that out in the future, but because, as I have said, I am not acting independently but on the basis of the OVV and the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u80	What I'm afraid of is that in a while, if the D.A.'s gonna ask for it, we're gonna be late. Why don't we do that now? It's a lot of work to get that done diplomatically. I believe that action must be taken now. I'd like to hear a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u81	I would like to take away Mr Bontes' concerns somewhat. The impression is given that the government does not want to do something that makes sense. Of course, that is not the case. Like Mr Bontes, we want the bottom stone to emerge. I have just tried to point out that the OVV report clearly states that this element is not relevant for the reason why and the way the MH17 was taken out of the air. Mr Bontes rightly points to the issue of criminalisation. In doing so, we are really following the requests made by the D.A.'s office. We don't do that for nothing. It's not like we're hiding behind that. As I have already said, to bring people to justice at some point is difficult enough for the Dutch Government to be completely independent. I am really not concerned, on the basis of data I have now, that the moment the prosecution says it needs that information, which could suddenly no longer be obtained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u82	If a Russian diplomat is suspected of child abuse, a huge diplomatic riot with Russia will be created. If nearly 200 compatriots find death over Ukraine, Russia destroys the data and we let Russia get away with it, does the Minister think that the Netherlands would ever manage to get a suspect from Russia before the International Court? Wouldn't that be a problem? Wouldn't it be much better now to draw a clear line as countries and indicate that evidence cannot be destroyed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u83	I could be repeating myself. The impression is evident from Mr Omtzigt that we are soft on the Russians. I would remind him of all the efforts I have made over the last six months to form a coalition in relation to an International Criminal Court in order to move the Russians forward. We have constant discussions about this. The Russians are also called upon to do so. I don't understand what a diplomatic riot in the past has to do with that. I do not think Mr Omtzigt is more critical of the Russians than I am or vice versa. Let's not have a game in that. Let us try to work together to bring the people responsible for this to justice. We shouldn't be playing a game the hardest or softest against the Russians. Mr Omtzigt knows very well what my positioning is on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u84	The government indicates that the Netherlands is not in the Security Council now. That's right. But any country can simply turn to the Security Council. Resolution 2166 also explicitly contains the Secretary-General's offer to mediate when such problems arise. When is the government prepared to make use of this? Doesn't she think that's necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u85	I'm gonna be a little repetitive. I think we're just differences of opinion, Mr Omtzigt. It's okay. I'll take a tough position on all the files if it's necessary to bring the people who did this to justice. That's why I want an independent OM and the JIT to play their part. I'll facilitate that. What I think is the wisest thing to do, we will also do it. The road to the United Nations is still open, but the right time must be chosen to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u86	It was found in the hearing that the availability of radar and satellite data could lead to the possibility of determining a smaller area from which that Buk missile could have been fired. I understand the position of the government in such a way that the public prosecutor and the OVV must be in charge of making the request, in determining whether this is necessary. I agree. We shouldn't sit in their seats. But is the interpretation of the scientists we have received technically correct? Or is it contradicted by the government? Isn't it necessary to narrow down the area from which that missile would have been shot, to have that radar and satellite data?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u87	As Minister for Foreign Affairs, I do not have an independent technical opinion on this. I'm just following the judgment of the O.V.V. and the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u88	The question seems rather simple to me. It seems to me that you don't necessarily need all the technical knowledge for that either. It's about what instrument you can look at the area with. Then it seems to me that the OVV and the D.A. are now saying: we have enough information to determine what happened in the air, but to determine what happened on the ground, satellite and radar data are needed. That's not such a far-reaching statement for the Minister to confirm or contradict, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u89	You yourself say 'it seems to me', so you also have some doubts about it. I am not in a position to go further on this matter now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u90	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u91	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to address a number of questions relating to the relationship between the OVV investigation and the ICAO Civil Aviation Organisation. Firstly, a number of Members have quite rightly, I think, asked about the significance of data retention. Let me say first of all that it is crucial that data that may be relevant to accident investigations are actually available for that investigation. The same applies to radar data. All relevant data should be made available for accident investigation so that lessons can also be learned and the likelihood of future accidents can be reduced. That is what the Dutch interpretation is about. However, the OVV study suggests that there may be a difference of understanding as to how the current obligation of Annex 11 to preserve radar data should be interpreted. I think it was Mr Servaes who also referred to the hearing in which some of the experts actually said the same thing. I would like to explain that. The standards and recommended working methods in Annex 11 to the Chicago Convention shall apply to those airspace areas under the jurisdiction of an ICAO Member State for which air traffic services are provided. ICAO Member States are also obliged to retain radar data used to support air traffic services provided by Member States in the event of an aviation accident. Annex 11 does not provide any further information on the use of air traffic services. In view of the above, and as the OVV also noted, there may therefore be disagreement as to the extent to which an ICAO Member State has an obligation to retain radar data in the event of an aviation accident. That is precisely why the Netherlands is committed at European level, within ICAO, to removing this uncertainty for the future, by advocating a retention obligation that is always on the agenda if radar data can be relevant for aviation accident investigations. Mr Ten Broeke asked what is happening at the moment. Furthermore, following the recommendations of the OVV report, the OVV has also been given the opportunity to present its report within ICAO within the European context. The preparation is now under way, because there will be an ICAO Assembly in September and we are working on a common European paper, with which we also want to include this position in the Assembly. The Court is aware that the OVV has made known its findings, and it has also been explained by my colleagues, to the effect that the absence of the primary radar data for the findings of the investigation has not made any distinction. We do not want to question the conclusions of that investigation. I think this applies to all of us. ICAO has no formal complaint procedure. There is only a formal dispute resolution procedure in which a Contracting Party may bring an action before the ICAO Council against another Contracting Party. This is about the interpretation or application of the Convention. Moreover, this procedure requires negotiations at government level first. Since the OVV has indicated that it does not need the radar data in relation to the conclusion of its investigation, we have acted in this way. We have also noted that I have just explained in detail that, for the future, we have taken the view from the Netherlands with our European allies that there should never be any difference of interpretation about this. You should always keep all the radar records. There can be no difference of opinion anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u92	That sounds a lot firmer than under this Secretary of State's predecessor. There is also moving insight, because then it was only about a website. When you look at that, you see how little is published on it. Let us return to the present situation. Suggestions have been made, not only by some of us, but also very broad, to start such a procedure at ICAO. Would that have made sense? If I have understood correctly, we must first negotiate between the states concerned. That should be grieving nations versus Ukraine or Russia. If these negotiations have resulted, whether or not with a mediator, then a complaint cannot even be lodged with ICAO, but the Member State concerned is defaulted. How am I supposed to imagine that? Such a procedure may never lead to anything other than the determination of whether or not a Member State of ICAO should have had radar data. There is no obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u93	That is exactly the core of the OVV report. It is noted that there is no formal complaint procedure, but only the dispute settlement procedure mentioned by Mr Ten Broeke. It is also the core here that the OVV has indicated that it does not see any need to further request that data for the conclusions it draws. These conclusions are clear and we do not want to question them. In the recommendations, the OVV writes that it is important that there should be no difference in interpretation of the retention obligation in the future. This was explained at ICAO. That recommendation calls for action and that action has started in the Netherlands. We are now working with our allies within Europe to come up with a common paper. I hope that this can lead to a common position on the Assembly in September. I understand as well as Mr Ten Broeke that there should be no uncertainty about this. During the Court's hearing, it was discussed that this international regulation does not provide the same clarity in all cases. There is, of course, a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u94	ICAO procedures are soft as butter. The O.V.V. isn't asking for it. Cooperation with Member States will lead nowhere. At the most, there is cooperation to adopt the recommendations for the future. We're actually looking at the wrong dock. That's how I put it in my own words. It is good that the Secretary of State is now taking action. I would like to continue to be kept informed of this. I can at least expect that commitment. I have one final point. Could the Secretary-General of the United Nations still play a role in this? According to the ICAO people we have talked to, that is the last passable road, apart from the fact that this will take months again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u95	I can answer your first question clearly. Of course, I will keep the Chamber informed of the progress of our action within ICAO. It is very important that we do that and that we tell the Chamber when we go to September, to the Assembly, how we are going to do that and what our expectations are. Then there is the second point. I think it is important to indicate what should happen if we want to start a dispute procedure. If the OVV has a problem with a particular country to get the requested information, it must first report it to us. Then the government can start a diplomatic action first. After that, the dispute settlement will take place. That would be the route. The OVV says that I repeat once again that it has drawn a clear conclusion and offers it. As the Foreign Minister said, the report of the OVV has received a great deal of support in many countries. That's what we've experienced. We must not put this debate and its outcome at risk now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u96	I sense some difference between what the Secretary of State says and what is in paragraph 2.9.5 of the report. There is one and a half pages explaining why the OVV believes that Russia could have made an exception, but that it should have laid down it within its own legislation. His own legislation did not distinguish between accidents occurring within the territory and accidents occurring outside it, apart from the fact that Russia still claims the area where the disaster occurred. Anyway, let's leave that out for a while, otherwise it's gonna be very complicated. Russia had not only made that distinction, but had also not reported it to ICAO. So because Russia didn't do that and hadn't reported it, it was required to keep those radar data. Why does the Dutch Government distance itself from this and say that there is uncertainty about it? That uncertainty can exist because Russia could have had that law. Will the Secretary of State confirm that in this particular case Russia has violated ICAO rules? Or does she think the OVV is wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u97	No. I do not think, first of all, that the OVV is wrong, and I hope you do not. I think it should be at the heart of tonight's debate that it is very important, also for the course of justice and the truth, that we keep that OVV report whole. That's really important. Russia claims not to have included in its national rules a retention obligation for these radar data, because it was indeed above other territory. If Member States deviate from ICAO rules, they must notify ICAO, and the Russians did not do so. So that indicates that it interprets that Annex 11 is what I just argued differently. Of course you can say even more, that is what you can find and we are also doing so because the radar data must be kept. That is precisely why, on the basis of the recommendation of the OVV, we do not want any doubt in the future as to whether radar images should be kept, from above our own territory or from above any other territory. In fact, it shouldn't matter if it's images from above other territory that your air traffic control already has contact with or if you only have the plane in view. That's how sophisticated the discussion can be. It is to counteract all the doubts that you can always have in this kind of interpretations that the OVV has said that there should simply be a retention obligation by default. Exactly that recommendation we followed, forcefully. We have already started to get all the Member States behind this in Europe, and then to do it in the Assembly in September. I think it's very important that we do that. I agree that there should be no doubt about the fact that if there is an accident or a situation where you would like to keep that radar data, that should also happen. There's no discussion about that. We need to do this better within ICAO than we do at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u98	It is true that the OVV states that there are some fringes to the obligations of the annex. It is good that the Netherlands is working on a solution to this. However, the OVV is very sharp. The OVV says that Russia did not have that exceptional position, because if it wanted that country to have that exceptional position, it should have reported that under Annex 38 of ICAO. Russia didn't do that. As a result, that obligation existed in Russia and was therefore in violation of it. The government, like me, wants to keep that O.V.V. report whole. Does the Government share the OVV's conclusion that Russia has not complied with the ICAO Convention? This is in the last few lines of point 2.9.5.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u99	I believe that the cabinet has said from the outset that it does not want to distance itself from the conclusions of the OVV. In fact, the Cabinet embraces those conclusions. So there's no discussion about that. However, Mr Omtzigt then asked me whether I would also have room, for example, to initiate this dispute procedure through ICAO. That's what the discussion is about. I've explained the way you should. For example, there is no formal complaint procedure. That's what makes it difficult. The OVV did not ask the Dutch government to take this route, for example. That was, of course, at the heart of the debate. That is how we reacted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u100	Mr Omtzigt may clarify his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u101	We disagree on this question. The OVV is very clear about this. However, on the last point raised by the Secretary of State, I would like to make one comment. We asked ICAO at the hearing what should happen. We were told that ICAO will only take action if the Dutch Government complains. Now the Secretary of State is going on to say: ICAO has not asked us to file a complaint. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It is up to the Netherlands to initiate this dispute procedure. Imagine that at a later date we would like to start a negotiation or mediation procedure with Russia, because the prosecution concludes that such a procedure is still wanted. In mediations, the minister of V and J is an expert, by the way. What if the D.A.'s office wanted to start such a procedure later, is there some kind of time limit for that? We may not be able to arrive at ICAO in five years' time and say there: now we want such a procedure and we still want to negotiate with Russia. Did the government check with ICAO? I imagine she didn't. If so, is the government prepared to tell us what is about the time span within which such mediation should take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u102	Maybe I should start by saying that I do not think it is fair that Mr Omtzigt puts words in my mouth that I did not use. I did not say that ICAO should ask us, for example, to come up with an investigation or start a procedure. I didn't say that at all. I explained to Mr Omtzigt how it would work in practice. I also told him that the OVV did not ask us to initiate this procedure. That's what I said. Mr Omtzigt may not think that is right, but that is how it happened. I'm kind of attached to saying that anyway. I'll see if there's a deadline for this. I can't put it like that right now. I also note, however, that this is not the case, because the request was not made either. I suspect that if the OVV had thought that this would be a useful route, it would have been included in the recommendations. In the recommendations, the OVV has put something different. That is where it is written that the Dutch Government should ensure that this retention obligation is much better regulated within ICAO. That's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u103	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u104	There are two other questions that have to do with the investigation. Both questions should actually be answered by the OVV itself. The first is about contact with EUROCONTROL. The OVV is also independent in this respect. The cabinet does not know exactly what has been exchanged between the OVV and EUROCONTROL. Moreover, it can be concluded from the OVV report that EUROCONTROL was involved in the investigation. The last issue is hearing from the traffic controller. There is no international obligation, but it has been stated in the hearing with the Chamber that it is very common to do so. Anyway, there is no international obligation. In the end, this is also a trade-off that the OVV itself has to make. This brings me to the end of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u105	This is the same as for my previous interruption. Surely I can expect an opinion from the cabinet on this? We can see that there is no obligation. In the event of such a disaster, hearing from the traffic controller who had the last contact is the last sight, isn't it a very logical matter? Surely the cabinet has a view on this without any obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u106	No, I don't want to do that. Let me explain to you why. I've just outlined what's really going on. I have also noted that it is very important that we do not have a discussion on what the OVV report means. It's really the OVV's trade-off. For all the reasons mentioned by colleagues in their contributions, we have deliberately supported the way in which the OVV and the Public Prosecutor work. We have deliberately not taken independent steps or expressed our own views on this, not because we may not have them, but because we think it is very important that the independence of research, but also the strength of research, should not be called into question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u107	Finally, Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u108	In my view, the independence of the OVV is not affected in any way if it is simply asked whether the hearing of the traffic controller could have given rise to essential information. If so, why didn't you decide? This does not seem to me to interfere at all with the powers or in the course of the investigation by the OVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u109	That's exactly what it is. It is up to the OVV to decide to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u110	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her clear explanation of the ICAO rules. Those rattles are very clear. Actually, that doesn't help you very much right now. Let's look at it from the other side, from the ethical point of view. The fact that Russia deliberately destroyed crucial evidence about the disaster with the MH17 would simply call most citizens a bastard region. Let me keep it clean and ask the Secretary of State if she thinks that Russia has acted improperly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u111	Here too, I think what you have heard the Foreign Minister say is very important. I have no other answer than he has already given you. You know, the government speaks with one mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u112	I haven't heard the word "indecent." Surely I should know from this Secretary of State whether she considers this inappropriate behaviour of Russia to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u113	I think it is very important that in the future there can be no doubt whatsoever that all radar data must always be kept. Together with our European allies, we are fighting the very important battle to make this crystal clear within ICAO. We really have no sign of doubt or disagreement that this is of great importance and that it should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u114	Finally, I note that our government, or at least the representatives who are sitting here today, are extremely skittish when it comes to addressing Russia in that area of bastards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u115	No, I think you really have to understand that it is very important for us, as for you, that justice be done and that the Dutch Government does not obstruct the course of justice and the independence of the investigation that is before us in any way. That is precisely the best way to ensure that those responsible are ultimately brought to justice. That is what I think we all want to do. There is no difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u116	We've arrived at the second term of the room. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u117	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. However, the CDA Group would like to see the declassification of the US data as soon as possible. In April, the Minister of V and J made a commitment that he would talk to the OVV about the documents that the council had not yet had. The OVV had just completed a mission to Kiev where they had not received the radar images. Have the radar images been discussed in the discussion the Minister has promised to the Chamber? In July there was a preliminary inspection. I took a look. On Part B, the Ministries of V and J, of Foreign Affairs and of I and M provided feedback to the OVV; see Annex Y to the Research Report. I don't know if they had part A too, but they would have had it in the summer and they should have known. I'd like to receive an explanation. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State until when a complaint can be lodged with ICAO. I find it incomprehensible that the prosecution should say orally whether it needs certain documents or not. Maybe the government can turn it around and ask for it themselves. The fact that the Minister of Justice cannot remember when it was first said that these data were no longer necessary shows exactly the need for written confirmation. I would ask you to ask for that written confirmation. This could be needed in a parliamentary survey in a few years' time. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it never happens that researchers do not have primary radar data in the event of an aircraft accident;]] [[Calls on the Government to address Russia, Ukraine for both military and civilian radar within 10 days, and the US and NATO to clarify what primary radar images were after the attack, what happened to them and what dates are still available;]] [[calls on the Government to communicate the results to the Chamber and to indicate how it will make every effort, through ICAO, the UN or otherwise, to obtain the data, or to clarify who deleted the data,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u118	Mr. Chairman. The government doesn't want any interference in the investigation of the Public Prosecutor or the OVV. I think that is a sensible starting point. At the same time, I expect the government to have the same curiosity as the Chamber about what has already been delivered by the OVV. Then I am surprised at what has been suggested by scientists, namely that radar and satellite images will reduce the area designation on the ground. That must affect the curiosity of the Dutch Government. It affects my curiosity and I will therefore wholeheartedly support the motion that has just been tabled. That is where we can move forward. Then there is the information of the traffic controller who has not been spoken to and the explanation that has not been requested by the OVV. I am also surprised that the curiosity on the part of the government is not as great as the curiosity on the part of the Chamber. There's information there. There's no other way. Then you should want to know that, too, is my assumption. That the OVV decides differently is up to the OVV, but that the government doesn't ask "why do you do that, do you expect nothing of it?', I can't imagine. What it is, I don't know. I would like to force the government to make a motion, but I understand that this is not the time. I also consider this debate to be an intermediate position throughout the process. We will certainly come back to this, starting with questions directly to the OVV and later in the debate with the government, when we have more on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u119	Mr. Chairman. As far as the OVV research is concerned, I believe that everyone, very broadly, shares the view that we should not attack the conclusions ourselves, no matter how good our intentions are. A number of spokesmen have said: these conclusions stand like a house. I think it is important that we do not lose sight of this, especially if the OVV itself thinks that it has answered the question that is so logical to us, even without the primary radar data. As far as the D.A.'s concerned, you're asking, we're running. That is the principle that we have now agreed with the government, and that is what I want to be able to rely on. I think it is right that the next of kin should also be given the opportunity to speak to the public prosecutor again. We too have had this opportunity before. I realize this is special in an ongoing murder case. We cannot continue to ask a government that has chosen to remain neutral in order to increase the chances of detection and prosecution, to take independent steps or to come up with constant opinions, however much we would like it to be. I get that. The independence and strength of research should not be called into question. This applies both to the investigation carried out by the OVV and to the investigation carried out by the D.A. ICAO's route is dead. We are, in fact, full of teeth, even before we have been able to submit anything properly and at all. Countries that we would like to place there in the dock could eventually stop the establishment of a genuinely accused bench. That is frustrating, but I understand that to some extent. I do not think that the House of Representatives should produce evidence itself or banish it through evidence, as I said in the first term. As far as we are concerned, it remains crucial that everything is ultimately done to put the perpetrators behind bars. The next of kin will eventually expect that from us. I have understood the Government's response today in this way. I commend the Secretary of State for I and M for doing everything we can for the future to prevent radar data from ever being kept. We've got to get that retention order in place. We will pay close attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u121	I understood the statements made by the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of State of I and M in such a way that the Americans are cooperating fully and that there is therefore no need at the moment to ask explicitly for them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u123	I would like to hear that explanation again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u124	We have agreed to speak with each other. Everyone has to stick to that. You too, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u125	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Ministers and the Secretary of State for the answers. It has become a little bit of an estranged debate. Almost everyone here agrees with the quality of the OVV report and does not want to change it. Almost everyone agrees that it is necessary for the Public Prosecutor's Office to conduct independent investigations. And everyone wants the perps behind bars. The strange thing is in the next. The United States has very specific information. They want to classify them on request, release them, but the cabinet does not want to ask for them. Russia erases radar data, but the ICAO guidelines contain gaps and therefore the Cabinet sees no reason to initiate a dispute procedure. The Russian erasing is, of course, obstruction. Of course, it is also true that that is the other side of the matter and that makes it a little strange that the OVV and the D.A. are not asking for that information. They have not asked for it and they are now saying that they do not need it at the moment. My group believes that this is an important signal. It is not the intention, as previous speakers have said, to go through ongoing investigations. At the same time, it's uncomfortable. "Uncomfortable' because it cannot be ruled out that these radar and satellite data are later needed. I'd like to make the next appeal to the Cabinet. In the context of Resolution 2166, which calls on all countries in the world to cooperate in the investigations on MH17, I ask the Cabinet once again to draw the diplomatic and political attention of Ukraine and Russia, in particular, to this resolution and its obligations. Anything to put the perpetrators behind bars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u126	Mr. Chairman. I only have 50 seconds left, so I have to do it very quickly. I have one motion, which, unfortunately, I cannot explain, but will read out immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the statements made by Russia and Ukraine indicating that they do not have additional radar images are not plausible;]] [[Whereas criminal law experts indicate that primary radar data are crucial for criminal prosecution;]] [[Whereas every effort must be made to obtain this radar data;]] [[calls on the Government, at ICAO, to launch a case against Russia and Ukraine and at the same time to examine how additional legal action can be taken against these countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u127	Mr. Chairman. Shortly after the terrible attack on flight MH17 Prime Minister Rutte said: one thing must be crystal clear; the bottom stone must come up. The question is: what is this promise worth today? Today, more than eighteen months later, Rutte's promise does not seem to have been fulfilled. On the contrary, there is still an atmosphere of shadowiness in relation to the relevant radar images. But what I find even less understandable is the fact that our government apparently does not intend to pass judgment on Russia's deliberate destruction of crucial evidence. I can only understand that if I assume that our government still has the hope to be able to count on Russia's cooperation to bring the perpetrators of this terrorist act to justice. I'm afraid that's hopeless, but I hope it works anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u128	Mr Ten Broeke has another question for you, Mr De Roon. Oh, no, I see that's not the case. I do not invite you to ask a question, Mr Ten Broeke! I give the floor to Mr Servaes, who speaks on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u129	Mr. Chairman. I was actually very much in agreement with Mr De Roon's last piece. That's exactly the point. We all have that feeling of discomfort, that feeling of "what happened here?', But we all want this to work out, and I think he put it all together. I also mentioned in my first term that weird split between transparency and success in finding the truth, the criminal investigation and the trial. Sometimes you end up in that weird split. I found the brief way the Secretary of State said "we have to keep the OVV report whole," very clear. That's right. We should not question that; others are already doing so for us, I would say. Let's get right behind the OVV. The prosecution must also be given full support, but we must not get in the way of this. Mr Sjoerdsma said that an ultimate appeal must be made to stress that Resolution 2166 must be fully respected by all. I agree with that, but we should not now start all kinds of procedures, the outcome of which is uncertain and the damage may be great. I believe that I am still entitled to answer my question as to whether it was not just the OVV but perhaps also the government that at some point talked to the Ukrainians about radar images. That question could come back in the second term. My final comment concerns the American satellite data. The minister said if necessary for the criminal trial, we will insist on making them public. I would ask him to pursue as much openness as possible as soon as possible in the criminal proceedings. Of course, the criminal trial is leading, but many people want to see these images at some point, if that's possible. So I'd like to have another reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u130	Both ministers and the Secretary of State can reply immediately. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u131	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank those Members who do not wish to leave any doubt that the Chamber fully supports the report of the OVV. This is important because there are indeed parties who would like to question the independence and quality of that report, as Mr Servaes also said. I would therefore like to thank the Chamber for its support. Mr Omtzigt asked me in the first term whether, following the debate on 23 April and the commitment I made to the Chamber, I had checked with the Security Research Council whether sufficient information had been provided. I would like to remind Mr Omtzigt that his question was then about the provision of information to the Dutch government. I also put that question to the chairman of the OVV. He has indicated that I do not experience any problems in the provision of information by the Dutch government to the OVV. I confirmed that to the Chamber in the letter of 15 June. Mr Omtzigt then asked about access to the draft report. It is very good that Mr Omtzigt also points that out, because, in a way, there are several partial reports. The draft report on the cause of the disaster we are discussing today has not been given to the Dutch Government in advance. As Mr Omtzigt rightly points out, however, he did not ask about the investigation of the passenger list and the decision-making of the routes on conflict areas to the Dutch government. That also makes sense, because these investigations saw the role of the Dutch government. The OVV has applied to this and again. I would point out that I have repeatedly confirmed to the Chamber that the Public Prosecutor has confirmed to me that I do not need further information. It's also in writing several times. I understand Mr Van Bommel's comment on curiosity very well. A lot of people will be able to understand that curiosity. But it fits the Dutch government within the framework of the OVV, which has conducted an independent investigation entirely independently, but also within the framework of the Public Prosecutor's Office, to curb that curiosity. Precisely because the government must act only if it is asked and should not take a risk through actions based on that curiosity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u132	I may have used the word "curiosity" too easily. That could indicate the lightly "want to know." That's not the point. What matters is that a choice has been made by the OVV, which I would say: hey, that's odd; I'm going to ask about that. After all, it is so obvious to do things differently and to talk to the traffic controller. That is why I said that I would have expected the government to ask a question on that point, not to try to persuade the OVV to act differently, because that would have been to intervene in the work of the OVV. I'm simply asking for an explanation. Why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u133	It doesn't suit the government to ask that kind of question to the OVV. The OVV has conducted an investigation on the basis of international regulations. It is not for the Dutch Government to enter into substantive discussions with the OVV on this matter. That did not happen, and that would not be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u134	It has already been established that it is not mandatory to hear that traffic controller, but it seems very obvious to me. Or does the Minister not share the view that it is very obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u135	For this, I refer back to the comments made by the Secretary of State. I won't have any more exegesis about that myself. I would like to say to Mr Servaes that the way in which the information given by the Americans is handled and whether or not it is declassified, the primacy really lies with the Public Prosecutor's Office. If the Public Prosecutor's Office needs a different provision of the information than has been the case so far, the government will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u136	I call the Foreign Minister. You had another question for the Minister of Security and Justice, Mr Sjoerdsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u137	Excuse me, unless I missed it. Did the Minister tell you when there was first contact with the Public Prosecutor about the fact that the Public Prosecutor doesn't need these images?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u138	When I've talked to the D.A. about that exactly, I don't know. I already told you. But I've confirmed it to the Chamber several times. That's dated, so shortly before that, I discussed it with the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u139	Mr Omtzigt also has a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u140	I have just looked into it in the report of the debate on 23 April 2015: "(...) that I intend to have, and have already promised, with the President of the OVV. Then we can see if the OVV itself has the same feelings as here in the Chamber about getting or not getting all the relevant information." That was not limited to the information provided by the Dutch Government, but was the discussion only about information that could be obtained from the Dutch Government? Have there not been any other problems in the conversation that took place in April?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u141	In that debate, Mr Omtzigt asked for a list of documents that had not yet been provided to the OVV. At least that's how I remember it. I said then that I would ask the OVV what information he had not yet received from the Dutch government and whether he was satisfied with the information. I reported that in the letter of 15 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u142	It's true that this has been reported. That was my question, too. The commitment was more general. That's why I'm asking the question. Did this also come up in that conversation or did it not come up at all and the OVV said at that time: we have no problem with the Netherlands after the Kiev briefing and after you have given us other documents? But the OVV didn't say at the time that he had another problem, namely that he really couldn't get the primary radar data?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u143	The question asked was about the role of the Dutch government in relation to the OVV. That's the question I got answered. I've informed the Chamber about that. Mr Omtzigt also knows that if the OVV, which operated completely independently and completely independently, had needed other information, the OVV would be entirely free to request the Dutch government to do so. This is also his role: the OVV is leading his own research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u144	There's one thing I want to be very clear about. I have already asked for this in writing twice. When did the government first know that the Russians had destroyed their primary radar data and that the Ukrainians were unable to supply it? When did the government hear that? I asked if that was April or July. At what point did it become clear to the government in that whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u145	I don't have that detail available. That Mr Omtzigt has asked for this, I remember. I'll be on slippery ice. I think the answer was... no, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u146	I remember the answer by heart. That was the first time that it was known to the public on October 13 that it was not known. That's right, because that was the date of the publication of the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u147	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u148	My question was whether that was also the first time that the government became aware of this. That was the question. Something can of course be known to the government rather than when the public is announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u149	That is also the answer: at the time the OVV report was published, the Dutch government also took note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u150	And you didn't before that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u151	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u152	Madam President. I have not really been asked any new questions, except for my commitment to emphasise the UN resolution on the need for countries to cooperate on the consequences of the disaster with the MH17. I am very willing to discuss this again with the UN because, of course, it is necessary for everyone to work together. It is not that I have great doubts about this now, but it is important, given the wishes of the Chamber, to call for international attention again. I'd be happy to do that. The Dutch Government has, as a result, taken a somewhat repetitive approach, namely to try to bring people to justice step by step. On the one hand, we do this through the international rules and the OVV report and, on the other hand, through cooperation in the JIT in relation to the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is a fundamental choice and a clear line. Despite understanding all the questions that live in the Chamber, or the curiosity or the interest in all kinds of things that are very important in themselves, it cannot be that we should move away from that clear line. This would undermine exactly what we think is important, namely a good course of action. I think we also have that obligation to the next of kin. This step-by-step approach, not politicising it, not being a government in the chair of investigation and justice, has so far been the only way to remain internationally credible and to move forward. That is the obligation of the Dutch Government. We're not going off that line either. In that light, I should like to refer to the motion for a resolution. Sixty-six dissuade. This would lead to separate initiatives which are not based on requests from either the Public Prosecutor's Office or the OVV. We hold on to that in principle. It's not to hide anything or to be shadowy. On the contrary. In such cases, you can only work in the way we have agreed here, namely by independent investigation of an independent Public Prosecutor's Office, in international cooperation. We really need that, because it's hard enough. There has also been painted here how international society is at the moment. That's not easy. It is not just about moral judgment, I would like to say, but also about effectiveness in what we want to achieve with each other. In that light, I advise against the motion in part No. 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u153	I think you've already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u154	I would like to return to what the Minister said about Resolution 2166. Today it was a long time on ICAO directives and on other obligations within aviation conventions. There's all these nasty hooks and eyes that we can't do anything with. The Minister has also just explained what neutrality of the investigation means. That UN resolution hangs over it like an umbrella, with a very clear mission to all countries: cooperate 100% in these investigations. I heard the Minister say, and I welcome that, that he is going to bring this resolution to the fore again. He says, "In the United Nations." I would like to specify one more thing, by welcoming the Minister, because the UN is not the organisation that is working against it. I hope that the Minister will draw attention to this resolution, specifically in two countries: Russia and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u155	I don't have a problem with that. I believe that I will soon have talks with the Foreign Ministers of both countries. It's my obligation to do that. I'll do that. I do that in all bilateral contacts. I am happy to bring this to the attention of my fellow Members again, and also with conviction, because I am speaking on behalf of the Dutch Government, and therefore with the obligation to stand up for the families of the disaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u156	Thank you for that. I think that is an important commitment. My final question is to make that operational. If he has done so with these ministers, can he put back to the Chamber how that conversation went?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u157	I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u158	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u159	Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt's question was whether there is also a deadline for a dispute procedure within ICAO. There's no time limit for that. I repeat that the OVV and the JIT did not ask to initiate this procedure. If you want to do that, the diplomatic route should first be followed, where countries should try to get out of it. That brings me to the motion tabled by Mr Bontes. 67, which calls for the case to be started at ICAO. I think I explained in my term why we don't. It must also be said that, unfortunately, we have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-12.u160	I thank the Minister for Security and Justice, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, the Members of Parliament, the support of the Minister and the people who have followed this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
