ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. "I want to do anything for the citizen, but nothing for the executives anymore. The organization is rotten. There's a culture of fear. People are afraid to lose their jobs and the bureaucracy is huge. It's more meeting and less helping," said a brave firefighter who dared to do his story at EenVandaag. I heard this yesterday, and when I go to work, I hear the same noises. AToday, yesterday, a survey was presented among over 1,000 fire volunteers and more than 400 professional firefighters. The results were shocking. In addition to the fact that the research indicates a huge gap between management and the workplace and the increased bureaucracy, there are two very serious concerns. A quarter of the volunteers from the study indicate the possibility of stopping to consider. The organization runs on firefighters. You can see that in recent years more and more volunteers have left the corps. That's really worrying. In addition, seven out of ten firefighters indicate that we have to stop putting fewer men on one wagon. There must be six men on a wagon now, but it is more and more common to have four men. That creates incredibly unsafe situations. The corps in Amsterdam is tired and only wants to run Sunday services. The workplace is sick and tired of it, and I understand that. We have been asking for improvements from this minister, together with the workplace, for years. But this minister keeps saying, "I don't do that." The question to the Minister is clear. He's gonna have to stop the fire department drain. How's he gonna do that? How is he going to ensure that firefighters can work safely and reliably again and that they are also involved in what is happening in their own organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Kooiman for asking these questions. It is very understandable that EenVandaag paid attention to this matter yesterday, and I understand that this will happen again this evening to the firefighters and the concerns that are there. It is clear that there has been a major reorganisation in recent years. This was the regionalisation of the fire department, which, as we know, has caused some of the concerns, including the firefighters. In itself, at the moment, with the exception of one region, I have no signals that there would be a decline of fire volunteers in such a way that fire services would be put at risk. However, we have been looking for years at a fall in the number of volunteers within the fire department by about 2%. This is, by the way, the same percentage which reduces the number of volunteers in all organisations at national level. We really do have a serious problem in that regard. It goes without saying that, as Mrs Kooiman knows, the governments of the security regions, as employers, are responsible for the proper organisation of fire services. This includes staffing. I'll ask the Security Council to come forward with their own investigation as well. I think it is very important that there should be clarity and clarity when there is unrest among firefighters. I would like to say to Mrs Kooiman that I will ask the Security Council to conduct its own investigation into the concerns of the staff, both volunteers and professionals, so that it becomes clear what the facts are. Because we know that there are concerns and that there is unrest, the security regions have carried out a lot of activities and organised many meetings. They have, of course, consultation with the unions and participation. It is also true that the gap mentioned in the survey is recognised by two regions. They indicate that they have actively pursued policies in this area. Mrs Kooiman's final point on the concept of "exit-to-measure" is mentioned. It has been chosen to be able, where appropriate, to emigrate with four persons. It's got hooks and eyes on it. Different pilots are being carried out and different studies are being carried out. The inspection also looks at it thoroughly. It is therefore carefully looked at. I know and understand the concerns about this. One thing is important: it must never be unsafe for firefighters to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u3	I hear the Minister say: it is a serious problem. He also indicates: I recognize the decline in the number of volunteers. It's a little more than he says. In his own answer, he indicates that it is really thousands. It's only increasing. I am a little shocked that the Minister says: I am talking to the Security Council; I am going to ask him to investigate. An investigation has already been carried out by EenVandaag in 2014. Today again. There's already an investigation. The concerns are already clear. The shop floor's sick of it. The Minister only has to go to work with a random corps; this will indicate the same concerns, namely that there are cuts, that the workplace is not being heard, that there is experimenting with safety and that it wants to be heard. I ask the Minister to listen to this voice and not to re-examine it, but to consult with the Security Council, the unions and the firefighters to see how the concerns can be picked up and resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u4	First of all, in 2012, there were 20,971 fire volunteers according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. In 2014 there were 20.155. That was a reduction of 816 volunteers. That corresponds to the percentage I have just mentioned. So it is not a question of thousands of people, as Mrs Kooiman suggests, but of hundreds. This means that there is also a decline in the number of volunteers in the fire department, as the national picture shows. I'd like to talk to the Firefighter Volunteers Association, because I want to discuss this topic with her. That deal's already been made, only the date isn't there yet. I have spoken to many firefighters at the same time during my work visits, which I do indeed do. I have heard from them the concerns about regionalisation. It hasn't descended in all places yet. People are still really worried about that. At the same time, I spoke extensively in Zeeland with people who work with the TS4 concept. That is one of the innovations. That concept and the way it is rolled out are very enthusiastic. This is not about house fires but about the simpler fires. So there are different opinions. That is why I think it is important that this investigation should take place. Then we know exactly where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u5	The investigation is there. The Minister touches on an essential point, namely that it must have been worn by the workplace itself. This variable vehicle occupation is currently driven by substantial cuts, which the Minister does not want to enter. I regret that, because he must stand for safety and must therefore come up with additional resources if that is to serve safety. But people's safety and participation are sometimes lacking. I think it is right for the Minister to talk to the Security Council and the firefighters, because they have an essential role to play, but it should not be left to talk. Solutions must also be found. I want him to promise that today, because I do not want to stand here every year and do the debate over and over again. It's done now. There's got to be a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u6	Let me say first of all that the security regions themselves are responsible for their personnel policy. I have to repeat this over and over again, also in the direction of Mrs Kooiman. I am responsible for the system. I'm gonna pick that up, too. That's why I'm going to talk to the Security Council about that investigation. I think they should also want to know how their staff are doing. Furthermore, it is not a cut-off measure, unlike what Mrs Kooiman wants to believe. It is really about achieving the same effect with fewer people, while ensuring the safety of firefighters. If Mrs Kooiman is asking for funding, she should really do so at the municipal councils. The municipal councils are responsible for financing the security regions, not the government. If I'm worried about funding, I'll address the security region, the mayors. If Mrs Kooiman has these concerns, she will have to do so at the municipal councils, which will undoubtedly include members of her party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u7	We have heard the Minister say: it must never be unsafe for firefighters to do their job. He also says: I am system responsible. That is true, but the Minister is responsible for the aid workers. We all know Safe Public Task, which punishes violence against aid workers twice as severely. In that context, the broadcast also showed that four firefighters didn't enter a burning building and the citizen didn't understand it. There was some aggression towards the firefighters. That's inconvenient, but it's understandable for people who are panicking. That's how it gets to this minister. I repeat Mr Kooiman's question as to what the Minister is going to do to ensure that firefighters can do their job safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u8	I have a system responsibility for that. Inspection V and J regularly investigate precisely this issue, namely whether the national frameworks are being complied with. The inspection is the supervisory and supervisory body. She reports to me, and if things don't go well, I'll take action. That is the way in which the system responsibility is organised. I know the example and I also understand that there were concerns about it, but I totally agree with Mrs Helder that you always keep your hands off aid workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u9	The firefighters are concerned about safety and a good assessment before it is deployed in an incident. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is possible to involve him specifically in the discussion with the security region. I wonder what he'll involve the Chamber in next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u10	Tailor-made work is the concept that has been agreed. We have discussed this extensively in the Chamber and it is being rolled out. The inspection also looked into this, particularly in Zeeland. It has been established that it in itself meets the legal requirements, with a number of comments. That is still being looked at carefully and carefully. The starting point is, of course, the effectiveness of fire services and, on the other hand, the safety of personnel. For example, the Zeeland TS4 syringe can be carefully and safely pulled out, but a TS4 is not enough for every fire. Everyone knows that too, and that's also part of Tailor-made Excerpt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u11	This minister shifts responsibility to the municipality and the city council to solve problems. He has also placed a huge bill on the municipalities and municipal councils, because there is considerable savings on the Municipal Fund and the fire department. He also says that problems need to be solved. Can I agree with this minister that the problems will be resolved before the summer? I am talking about the problems mentioned in EenVandaag's research. If you can't do that before the summer, when can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u12	That's a tricky question. Let me point out that problems always have to be solved. The responsibility at the level of detail, with people, with personnel policy, really lies with the security regions. It is up to me to fulfil the system responsibility. I will, but I think it is important that the security regions themselves should also investigate the atmosphere of the staff. If there is a gap between management, which recognizes two regions, it is very important that the facts come to light. I will convey that message to the security regions. Of course, I'm gonna talk to the firefighter's association. As I said, that appointment was already made, but the date has yet to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u13	I think the Minister agrees with GroenLinks that we should be incredibly grateful for firefighters and especially for voluntary firefighters who are trying to make the Netherlands safer and save our lives and goods. The motivation of these people depends on how pleasant their work is and the extent to which they are allowed to participate. You hear them tell on the radio that they feel safer when they can decide for themselves to go there with six, twelve, three or four. This Minister can say that the security regions should take care of this because they are responsible for voting among the staff...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u14	This is a summary of Question Time, Mrs Van Tongeren. It really needs to be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u15	Sorry, what I particularly want to know is to what extent the Minister thinks it is real to move cuts that make it impossible for firefighters to hold that vote properly to the regions. Can the Minister inform the Chamber promptly how, on the basis of existing investigations, he will ensure that the security regions are able to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-19-tweedekamer-2.u16	Then Mrs Van Tongeren should have a look at how it is organized under state law. The municipal councils together form part of a security region. They have the task of ensuring that fire services in their own municipalities are up-to-date and adequately funded. That is a question that each city council must discuss separately with its own municipal administration. That is where the debate is taking place on whether this is appropriate. If there are signs that there is no adequate funding, then I come to address the security regions. However, I do not have any instruments to take steps in the direction of the municipal councils. The municipal councils will really have to do so themselves, including the politicians of Mrs Van Tongeren's party. I am very happy with the fire volunteers but also with the professional firefighters. These people are waiting day in, day out, from early in the morning to late in the evening, indeed for us. It is therefore very important that the exit be carried out in such a way that it is safe. The firefighters have to see for themselves that it's possible. In Zeeland they have done very well with the TS6 sprayers, which basically require six people. There is indeed still some discussion about this. Research and pilots are also taking place with this and that is looked at carefully. As soon as that is clear, I will, of course, inform the Chamber.
