ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u1	Mr. Chairman. We had a very good general discussion with the Minister. The noses were pretty much in the same direction. That's special. I want to count my blessings. I have already indicated to the Minister in general consultation that my group believes that there should be a legislative change. I am, of course, prepared to await the investigation promised by the Minister in that debate. You're gonna have to apply for a VAO to file a motion. I did. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that to date there is no separate legal status for missing persons;]] [[noting that this is for the stragglers (partner, parents, children, etc.) is experienced as a major defect because it depends on the willingness to cooperate with bodies, such as financial institutions, insurance companies, etc., so that they can get into (financial) problems;]] [[considers that the existing protocols or those under development are insufficient to enforce the cooperation of the said bodies;]] [[considers that a legal status for missing persons should be included in the Civil Code, so that the burden of proof of missing persons can no longer rest on those who remain behind and cooperation can be enforced;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up, as soon as possible, a legislative amendment requiring a separate legal status for missing persons to be included in the Civil Code,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33552-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u2	May I finish the final part of my speech, Mr. Chairman? I've got 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u3	I am sure Mr Van Oosten would like to wait for that. Finish your speech in the 29 seconds remaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In there, I'm gonna make it easy. Although it is unusual, I would like to state in advance that I am prepared to hold the motion until the investigation I have just mentioned is ready and sent to the Chamber. The Secretary of State, who has just left, said it so nicely: because the conclusion to that investigation, namely that result, is already ahead of us. That's why I'm prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u5	Thank you. And now for Mr Van Oosten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u6	My question is also concerned with this. During the general consultation, the Minister indicated that he would use it to conclude protocols with pension funds, banks and insurance companies. Why? To meet the needs of those who remain behind in the most practical and efficient way. Would it not be wise to wait and have the Minister evaluate this first? Let me immediately link my follow-up question to this. Would it not be wise to ask the Minister to report to the Chamber on what has come out of it? Then we can look at whether this has had the effect we want, namely that those who remain behind are put in a position, or whether we should go the long and complicated road of a legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u7	The answer to that is no. That is what I said during the general consultation. Those protocols are not sufficient to enforce the cooperation of the said bodies. Unfortunately, this was also clearly stated during the hearing by experts in the field of experience. These protocols are appreciated, but they are not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten to keep his own story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u9	Mr. Chairman. I am doing this briefly, because I have just made my line very clear in the little debate on the interruption with Mrs Helder. I follow Mrs Helder when it comes to strengthening the position of those who are left behind, because the needs of those who are left behind are fierce. That is also clearly laid down in the poignant stories that have been transmitted to us. The income is falling and the expenditure is going to go on. The question is how to meet these needs in the most practical way. I follow the Minister in that sense. If you conclude protocols with organizations, it might bring about what everyone wants much faster and more efficiently. But then I'd like to keep my finger on the wrist. That is what my question to the Minister is about. Does the Minister want to make a sharp assessment of whether these protocols actually have the effect that we are aiming at, namely strengthening the position of those who are left behind? And will the Minister report back to the Chamber on this, let's say before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u10	I have a very short question. One doesn't rule out the other. When authorities say they follow the protocols, that legal status is still necessary, but a next of kin does not need to use it. There are just next of kin who, unfortunately, do. I'd like to give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u11	I don't hear a question in this. I want the protocols to have their effect, to have the Minister closely monitored and informed. Then we can look as a room at whether we need to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u12	Mr. Chairman. If your loved one is missing for a long time, as a straggler, you end up in a poignant state. You go into bureaucracy and you have to write letters to agencies. It's a very sad story. The SP is in favour of legal status for missing persons. And yes, a lot has already been set in motion. Protocols have been established. But those protocols aren't enough in themselves, because the SP thinks that people have been looking for help. So they should not depend on a protocol and hope for the coulance of agencies. So that's what we have to do. Think, for example, of the right to suspend payment obligations, or, for example, a declaration of inability to handle cases. There are some very interesting ideas. The Minister has indeed promised an investigation into how this could be arranged. The SP is happy with that, but at the same time the SP feels impatient on this point. We've been working on this for such a long time and so many people have already gotten in such a bad way. Therefore, if we do not immediately manage to come up with a final legal settlement, a change of law will indeed take time, and we must ensure that those who remain behind do not suffer from it. People can't get in trouble anymore. It's happened too many times. I'd still like to hear the Minister. In short, what do we do if agencies such as banks, insurers and the Tax Administration do not adhere to the protocols and therefore do not act in a manner that is unanticipated? So what do we do for those who are left behind for missing persons?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u13	Mr. Chairman. We have had an impressive AO, especially since people who have had to deal with this tragic situation have told us so strongly what had happened. They told us how terrible it is when someone is missing and how terrible it is to end up in huge administrative hell. You have to take care of everything and experience little support. It is good that the Minister has indicated that he is going to work on pushing through some of the protocols. He will also discuss the case-law to see if he can speed up the procedure. Is there anything more to be said about that? I support the creation of a WODC report that looks at what is best. We also believe that this should actually be regulated by law, but I think it is important that we analyse this as well. So, support for that! Mr President, since this is about missing people, may I briefly refer a whole other issue on missing people to the Minister? Unfortunately, another child went missing last week. That missing child was active on Facebook. After contact with the police, it was said again: we cannot assess this, because we do not know whether the child is in acute danger of death. That was so terrible for the parents, the aid workers, and actually for the police. We know that the Minister is considering putting forward a bill to that effect. Can you do that as quickly as possible? Because any missing child that can be measured is one. Maybe we should even be very bold and just do it. 'Cause I'm wondering, who's complaining? The missing child? I don't think so! Let us just make sure that children can be visited.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u14	The other colleagues have signed up for zero minutes, so I am looking at the Minister now. There's been one motion filed. We wait a minute so that the Minister can prepare his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u15	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the spokesmen for the questions and the comments they have made. Let me say first of all that we have had a very good and careful general discussion on a very serious problem that has rightly been addressed. I would also like to pay tribute here to the people who have brought this issue to our attention and put it on the agenda from their own experience. This has led to the adoption of measures in a number of areas. We have also exchanged the view that in the Netherlands there are thousands of missing persons who, fortunately, are resolved after a short period of time, but that there are still a number of missing persons every year that are not resolved. This can indeed pose problems to people in a very penetrating and unpleasant way. I am very pleased that the Chamber has generally agreed to the two-track policy I would like to pursue on this point. First of all, there is the adoption of practical measures that can work in the short term to help people deal with authorities, including the statement that the police will issue that someone is actually officially missing. This can help those who are left behind by missing persons to solve the problems with agencies. In addition, the announced research by the WODC into all legal possibilities, including all the suggestions made at the June round table. I understand Mr Van Nispen's impatience very well. In general terms, we have exchanged views on this issue. I think that everyone in this Chamber will say: can we not do this as soon as possible? Mrs Helder put that in a motion. I'll get to that in a minute. At the same time, we have generally exchanged views on how complicated this is. A declaration of death, a logical consequence of a prolonged disappearance, has all kinds of serious consequences, for the person concerned but also, if necessary, for those who remain behind or for the heirs, if an inheritance is divided and a person is returned alive and well. These are situations that may arise in the current situation. We have also discussed a number of other solutions, but we have been able to come up with all kinds of solutions. That is why I very much appreciate that Mrs Van Toorenburg says that we should do it carefully, although perhaps we would like us to be able to resolve it earlier. So we can find a durable solution for this group of people. The WODC study will be completed before the summer of 2017. I'll inform the Chamber about the design and planning of that investigation. Then there will be an evaluation of the policy we are now pursuing, an evaluation of the protocols concluded between Victim Aid Netherlands and all the agencies involved. I will also inform you about this before the summer of 2017. I would like to draw the Council's attention to the case-law on speeding up procedures for obtaining a declaration of legal suspicion of death, because during the general consultation one of the people present specifically told me that she should have waited a year for it. I agree with her that this is really not possible. I have not had that conversation yet, as I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg, but I intend to inform the Chamber on these three aspects before Christmas. Mr Van Nispen asks what we do when agencies fail to comply with these protocols. I promise him that I will ask Victim Aid Netherlands to inform me of this if they receive signals that this is not happening. I can then take action myself on the basis of my involvement in this issue. Of course, we believe that these parties should be tailor-made. The evaluation will have to show whether this has actually been achieved. I admit that I will ask for help from the victim, the Netherlands, if there are any problems, to inform me about them. I say to Mr Van Oosten that the House is indeed informed about the effect of these protocols. If I hear anything about problems before then, I will take action. This can be expected from us given the seriousness of the situation. I shall now come to Mrs Helder's motion on item No. 24. That motion is actually a stick behind the door. That's what Mrs. Helder says. She knows that I don't think a legal arrangement is sensible right now, just because I want to do the WODC investigation. I want to end the two-track policy and don't need a stick behind the door. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. I understand that Mrs Helder would be prepared to hold the motion. Then my advice is less important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u16	For the Acts, I confirm once again that I am holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u17	At the request of Mrs Helder, I propose her motion (33552), No. 24). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u18	I had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u19	I would like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for her warm interest and support for what I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u20	For a moment, I thought the Minister remembered what I had asked about missing children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u21	It is good that Mrs Van Toorenburg brings this to my attention. I'm sorry I forgot. I have written to the Chamber that I think everything is very clear that we should indeed ensure that there is a legal basis for surveying mobile phones in cases of missing persons. That cannot be done now, and I believe that we must abide by the law. So I'm a very urgent person. Before Christmas, I'm gonna let the bill go into consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u22	I still think it's possible for children. It could be a life threat. Why can't it be sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u23	We really need a legislative amendment to that effect. It is not too big a change and for that reason I will be able to start the consultation before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-15.u24	The motion tabled has been held, so there is no need to vote on it. I'm sure it'll happen later. We'll continue with the VAO Police. The Minister's busy tonight.
